ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on topical questions, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers for Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic, Health and Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development and the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, tabled a draft law on 22-6-2018: "Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent (M. I. I. I. I. I. I. I and other provisions.’; This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs us that there will be no debate on a number of topical questions as a result of the attendance of the relevant ministers. The first under number 1830/19-6-2018 topical question of the First Cycle of the Radical Left coalition, Christos Karagiannides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Confidence of the ICD's obligations of nurses/parents and the rights stemming from them", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The second, with number 1800/12-2018, topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christou Mandas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "World Day of Hemotitist and National Center of Hepatitism (EKC)", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 1805/12-2018, an up-to-date question from the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Surface image presents the General Hospital of Artas", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The fourth under number 1754/5-6-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dumos Hospital presupposes its armoured by staff and equipment", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The second question under number 3195/5-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The establishment of the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centers in the prefecture with medical staff", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The fifth under No. 1810/13-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Aristides Fokas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dramatic toll increase", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The fifth, No. 1729/30-5-2018, topical question of the second question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forest capacity of the Greeks", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. Eleventh question under number 1518-17-2018, the second question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The first under number 1824/18-6-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government's failure is leading to a health bomb due to HIV", is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi. Cause: workload. The first under number 2925/172/25-1-2018 question and application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Differences in medical staff of hospitals and health centres" are not discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos. Cause: workload. The sixth question under number 1731/30-5-2018, topical question by MP, Thessalonica, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces", is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos. Grounds for: the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs of the European Union in Luxembourg. The seventh question, No. 1706/25-2018, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Systema fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) with the investment bank “Rothschild”, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. Grounds for service travel abroad. The twelfth under number 1753/5-6-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Reimbursement of a seafront or “front” smuggling,” is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. Cause: workload. The eighth under No. 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “About the future of the Greek Defence Industry, it is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Cause: not discussed. Likewise, the ninth is not discussed under number 1538/23-4-2018, a topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need for an increase in military service". Cause: not discussed. Nor is the tenth question under number 1539/23-4-2018 topical question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on "About the participation of military teams in a party course of the JRC". Cause: not discussed. The third, with number 1831/19-6-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Award of grace to criminal convictions, in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Member's question. Likewise, the fourth question under number 1829/18-6-2018 in the first cycle of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "About the criminals and nationally harmful behaviours of the Mayor of Thessaloniki Giannis Boutaris, it is not debated because of the impediment of the Member of Parliament. The second question will now be discussed under No 1823/18-6-2018 of the first-round question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: 'Strengthening of tourist education'. The Minister will answer Mrs. Koudoura. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, after this inconsistency of ministers who do not come to the parliamentary procedure to answer the questions, I am pleased that Mrs Kundura is here today. After all, I would not expect it to be because I know very well, Mr President, that Mrs Koundoura has the feeling that tourism education is a national issue, as she says. So are we in the New Democracy. Of course, in the time horizon, which is limited in very few minutes under parliamentary control, I do not expect, Minister, to be exhausted all the issues of tourism education. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you, once again, to accept the New Democracy's invitation to discuss this very important aspect of tourism education in the Committee on Production and Trade and in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, something that the Minister has not denied, but I do not know what the hindrances were from 26-11-2015, Mr President, to the Minister at the time, Mr Friend, with the President of the Commission, Mr Gavroglou, who, although we have sent a letter in this regard, was not accepted. The second invitation was from 5-12-2016 to Mr. Sevastakis, who was still not accepted. Finally, on 17 January we sent Mr Gavroglou and the Minister, who did not accept it. I would like to remind you that this is a process which is a prerequisite for us to be able to highlight tourism education as a priority for the country. I also know, Minister, and your intentions, that you are interested in this process of upgrading PMs, the Higher Schools of Tourism Professions in Rhodes and Crete, and I would like to believe that, even now, three years later, we will enter a process of discussion on their upgrades. Of course, Mr President, the government has shown its inconsistency with regard to tourism education and training, because, as far as the schools are concerned, the two Departments of Tourism in Crete and Piraeus made the opportunity of foreign-language departments in Greek. I would like to believe, however, that we should go into a sense of continuity for education, training and lifelong learning, because a single link is the ASEAN. So we will not solve the problem with them alone. In the committee we therefore call on the Minister to take the initiative - we may - of all things for a very long time. Does anyone believe that the ASAs have gone ahead with an upgrade of the programs for three years? No, they haven't. Does anyone think that the design for in-hotel training has gone ahead? Oh, no. Does anyone think that a foreignlanguage or a tourism, gastronomical, which I believe the Minister is also in this direction over the three years? Oh, no. Does anyone think that it has proceeded with the certification of academic qualifications and its ranking on criteria of higher education institutions? Is there a comprehensive policy on this? Oh, no. We call, even now, on the Directorate of the Ministry of Tourism, Mr President, to take the initiative with concrete proposals so that the PMUs can take the step they need. In addition, Mr President, I have tabled before to the Minister who took the initiative, and I must stress this point, as Minister of State at the time, in the first fortnight I shall go as Head of Sector of Tourism of the New Democracy - a specific framework for proposals. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this context, I think we need to move on. Even now, there is time, because tourist education unites and does not divide.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u4	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u5	My dear colleague, first of all, thank you very much for your timely question, to put things in place in terms of public tourism education, and to reply to you about what we have found and what we at least have designed and done. You are well aware that, before taking over the country's governance in 2015, previous governments and co-governments fully renounced public tourism education. And I remind you: you have abolished OTEK. You've booked secondary education, professional U.S.S.S. schools. You booked the tour schools. You lowered the eight IEC Tourism operating under obsolete curriculum and regulations, which had years to be revised. You have demanded the historic higher schools of ASTE Rhodes and Crete, for which not only you had ensured that they have adequate curriculum programs, but you have not even been very interested in maintaining their entire building infrastructure for decades, thus presenting a risk to the staff and students. The public tourism education delivered to us therefore operated with basic shortcomings in legislation, without structured structures, without sufficient human resources and, of course, without the necessary funds to do more. In the bad situation that you had left it to come, it had absolutely no prospect of doing its basic and decisive role in the training of the new generation of managers, in competitiveness and in the development of Greek tourism. We have, from the first time we have undertaken, incorporated public tourism education into our national and regional policy as a high priority and with a comprehensive study and not with a rough piece of legislation - this is very important - and we have moved forward - with the necessary changes, sectors, so that we can fully upgrade it and operate on new and healthy bases. So we have set our goal from the very beginning, firstly, to reopen the tour schools after seven years, with the first commitment we made in Athens. This year he welcomed the first students. We also set priority to upgrade the Higher Schools of Tourism Education, ASTE Rhodes and ASTE Crete, which, as you know, governs a special higher education status in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Of course, we have given priority to modernising the education provided in the eight IEK tourism. I note that due to the Memorandum of Understanding created by the previous governments, 10% of teachers had been foreseen. You understand that it would be very difficult to create more actions and lessons. And because you mentioned the English, I would like to tell you that we very much want to do English-speaking departments. You have, however, signed a Memorandum of Understanding every year to reduce training staff to 10%. So we could not cover functional gaps and complete the necessary procedures. Because we do not want to legislate manually - because, in fact, tourism education is very important for us - we have, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, set up a Scientific Council for Quality Assurance of Tourism Education, which has already begun its meetings and has gone ahead with the implementation of our strategy for upgrading and modernising public tourism education. This scientific board, composed of excellent teachers, plans to amend and update all the curricula and the curriculum regulation of higher schools - ASTE Rhodes, ASTE Crete - which had been last revised in 2006-2007. You are right, however, that with our national tourism policy for the last three years we have brought historical records to all tourist sizes, arrivals and revenues, and that means tourist professions have a huge demand. And because we want to have specialized professionals and quality in the provision of services, our obligation is to create a high level of tourism education. And that's what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after three and a half years of governing SYRIZA - ANEL you cannot yet see that you are in design. I'm so sorry. I would expect at least you to have a sensitivity and say 'we're delayed'. Do you know why I'm saying this, Minister? Since the first day you have had evidence, suggestions and a framework, which you had adopted at our meeting at the Ministry, you as Minister and I as a special minister. From there, however, you yourself should have played a leading role in having a long debate in the Committee on Educational Affairs and in the Committee on Production and Trade with Minister Gavroglou. I am very pleased that at last, even now, you are working with the Ministry of Education. We'll see the results. In the context of this cooperation, however, we have a framework of obstacles, in relation to competitive tourism education in other countries. I am, of course, pleased, Minister. It is not a question of discussing this question, however, to once again take on the number of visitors. But answer the revenues that the Bank of Greece announced a few days ago in relation to last year's data that is at the same level. We have an increase in the number of visitors and a reduction in revenue. I'm not standing on it, though. Do you know where I stand, Minister? You know very well that TEIs belong to the past after the Minister's initiative to incorporate TEIs. Here, then, we have an issue with regard to the Tourism Education Departments of the TEI. They do not serve the needs, obviously, and that is why the Minister is moving on to a redesign. But here, I would like you to tell us: why did you cancel the last prospect of a competitive policy in terms of tourism from the abolition of the Institute of Tourism Research which was institutionalised? Let us have Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos answer that because he did that. He's not answering us. At least, let's get in touch with PDUs. Will you give the sixth level of national qualification framework to ENTSOs? Do it at last. In addition to this, because tourism in the field of vocational training needs the establishment of lifelong learning schools, but also of in-company training and education structures, Minister, I urge you to move quickly because tourism cannot compete at this time when our neighbours have non-state universities, which we will then discuss, with the abolition of Article 16. You, as a productive ministry and as a female model, know on the international precinct what tourism education in Europe and in the world means. Mr. Tsipras has been declared an honorary doctor from a university of our neighbour Turkey, which is a pillar of tourism education. And Cyprus is the Mediterranean pillar for tourism education. Come on, help us put a precedent in this country and leave the past behind. I speak in terms of the future. Do you want us to take responsibility and say we made mistakes? Very good, we made mistakes. Minister, three and a half years you have not brought in a small port for tourism education, training and lifelong learning. Do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Consola, it's really impressive how you twist the truth. What exactly are you talking about? The opening of the Tour School isn't something? The fact that we did the retraining programs for three years in all the regions of the country, in fourteen cities, when you did it in four cities, is nothing? The fact that you did not leave us resources and reduced us to the instructors is not one reason why we should not be able to solve all the problems and diseases you have left us for decades in the three-and-a-half years of the country's governance. I mean, you really impress me. Also, Mr Consola, I would like to tell you that you are also distorting the truth about revenue. In the first five months of 2018 arrivals and revenues are 18% in increase compared to 2017. What you're talking about is the month of April that just the increase was almost one. But you should see the five months. We've really got a record of arrivals and revenues for the last three years that everyone, if you like, recognizes it except you. Like saying that this success of tourism, which is a success of all of us, which is a success of Greece, is annoying you, you don't like it. Anyway! Everything that you have committed yourself and done was in the direction of depreciating public tourist education. Unfortunately, we did not have the time or the money, because you left us the funds empty, to be able to reform the curriculum, to create, as I said, this training board. Because you completely devalued tourist education, you left it without new tools technologically and with no connection to the market, we put priorities. And because, as I have said to you, I do not want to legislate hand-to-hand and fragmented, a model which we know has brought about in the past, our design also includes the introduction to our educational structures, for the first time, of digital education. In particular, we promote the use of technical means for digital learning and digital librarys as well as the creation of an electronic tourist education portal, because we have now managed and secured the resources, after the empty funds you left us. In addition, our Ministry has established a channel of communication with the Ministry of Education, in order to amend Article 16 of Law 3149/2003 and the graduates of ASEAN have access to a programme of postgraduate studies in Greek and foreign universities, without having to obtain a second degree before. But that also needs, as you know, financial resources. We seek, in other words, the equivalence and equivalence of diplomas with the degrees of the tourist business departments of ATEI. In addition, the Ministry of Tourism is now a social partner through the regional services of IEKs in ‘ERASMUS’ programmes and at the request of ASTEC to the European Commission, the University Charter of Higher Education ‘ERASMUS’ was awarded to it, which enables it to participate in all the activities of the programme relating to education and training at higher education level by 2020. With Article 56 of Law 4465/2017, we have ensured the financing of programs and actions by the Ministry of Tourism from the national part of the Public Investment Programme for 2017, 2018, 2019, in relation to the training and retraining of workers seasonally and unemployed experts in the tourism sector, with a view to modernising, upgrading quality, strengthening competitiveness in the tourism sector. As I told you, it will take place in fourteen cities, covering all thirteen regions, compared with four cities you had in the past. Our intention was for these programmes to begin immediately. However, at the request of the presidents of the work centres of Crete, Rhodes and representatives of the management of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Food and Occupational Staff, we agreed to start in November with the end of the year - in introductorys - of the'summer' tourist season, because they too recognise that with the great prolongation that has taken place during the summer season and with the upgrading of the winter period by 20% every year, these people do not remain unemployed so that they can monitor these departments and there is a great problem in that. In other words, they should work and be trained. We have already made a proposal in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs to create - and this is the most important one - a new body, such as the one you abolished, a legal person governed by public law, responsible for all tourism education. Because everything that the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Tourism is doing today is not enough. An OPEC - which I honestly do not understand why you have abolished - can only be financed from European programmes. And of course, he could not only have education and retraining programmes, but he could strengthen tourist education. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] In conclusion, Mr Consola, I would like to say once again that I am impressed that, while under the sole responsibility of previous governments and governments, you have led tourism education to a complete disgrace, effectively abolishing it, you are once again coming to us because in three and a half years' time, with empty funds and reduced educational staff, we have not been able to correct all the mistakes and respond to all the ages that you have left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Kyriazidis has asked for the floor on the question he has asked. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Only one of the twelve questions is now answered. The ministers do not answer the written questions. The timely questions do not come here for an answer. The whole process, Mr President, as we have stressed several times, is under the responsibility of the government of accountability, as was committed to so many other things. With regard to a previous topical question, unique for Drama Hospital, the time spent to answer was about one year. In today's written question, which has come to light today - and I thank you, Mr President - the Minister of Health again does not come from the beginning of the year, unfortunately, and so that the Drama Hospital is in a situation - I would say - of inability to serve the purpose for which it has been created. From the beginning of the year the question was tabled, the situation is now to a certain extent dangerous, with the result that there has recently been the cry of the workers at Drama Hospital, which says this on a front page, Mr. President: “With half of the medical staff, compared to 2009, the Drama Hospital is working.” It is a cry of stress for the workers, but most importantly - if you like - those in need of hospitality. I have been waiting for the Minister since the beginning of the year if I have had an answer today. Unfortunately, I didn't get it. Please for your intervention. For matters relating to life, we must have at least one answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Congressman Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, from 2 July to 5 July 2018, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Savvas Anastasiades seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 26 June to 27 June 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 23 June to 25 June 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 June to 28 June 2018 for the funeral of a close family of the environment. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 23/15/28-3-2018 by Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Theodoras (Dorra) Bakoyannis, Athanasi Boura, Christos Dimas, Charalambou Athanasiou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Fotinis Arabatzis, Eleftherios Aygenaki, Apostolos Vezyropoulos, George Vlachos, Nicholas - George Dendias, Constantine Ah. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgiou Karasmani, Andreas Katsaniotis, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Emmanouil (Manu) Konsola, Christos Boukorou, Ioannis Plakiotakis, Konstantinos Skreka, Christos Stagira, Dimitrios Stamatis, George Stylion, Ioannis Tragaki, Konstantinos Tsiara, Theodouros Fortsaki, Konstantinos (Kosti) Hatzidakis, Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Full failure of the extrajudicial compromise - only took advantage of twenty three operations". Mr. Bouras, Mr. Dimas, Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Besiropoulos, Mr. Bukoros, Mr. Vlachos and Mr. Fortsakis will be placed among the honourable Members. On behalf of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Drasakis. The time for the honourable Members is as follows: For the first speaker the time will be ten minutes for the prototype and five minutes for the second. For the second, five minutes for the protology and three minutes for the denology. For the third, five minutes for the protology and three minutes for the denology. For the fourth, five minutes for the protology and three minutes for the denology. For the fifth, five minutes for the protology and three minutes for the denology. For the sixth, three minutes for the protology and two minutes for the second. For the seventh, three minutes for the protology and two minutes for the denology. The Minister has twenty minutes for protology, ten minutes for dentology and five minutes for tritology. The time for Parliamentary Representatives is as follows: Mrs Jack, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, she has six minutes. Mr Dendias, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has 12 minutes for protology, six for dentistry and three for tritology. Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Alliance, has six minutes. Mr. Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has six minutes. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has six minutes. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has six minutes. Mr. Psarianos, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has six minutes. Mr Saridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union, has six minutes. Mr Bourras, the first honourable Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for ten minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President and Minister, while you had cultivated great expectations of debt regulation, you passed under the bar. And as the people say, "He gave me." However, these will be discussed in detail in the New Democracy's previous agenda. On Friday, at the time of you, SYRIZA and ANEL, this is the first time that - the Zappeion skirt - was the first, because you will do more - I was with my colleague Mr Vlato in our region. We met there for some compulsory attendances. We went to Aspropyrgos, Ano Liosia, Zephyri, which you know and have served. The inhabitants of the region were very unpleasant, because you are cutting them off the EKRD, they will lose one to three pensions or salaries from the EUR 5.1 billion measures, which you voted on a few days ago, and by reducing duty from 1-1-2020. I repeat the reduction in pensions from 1-1-2019. In fact, they had a strong question how we come out of the memorials when the primary surplus arrives until 2060. That is what I had to mention outside the subject we are discussing today. Minister, there is a need, more than ever, for restoring liquidity on the market. Whatever measures have been taken in recent years, they have not been able to provide a solution, but instead they have involved borrowers in a vicious cycle of inefficient ways of dealing with their debts. There is a need for a dynamic response to the issue of'red' loans. Law 4469/3-5-2017, as amended sixteen days later by Law 4472/19-5-2017-, understood the curiosity - which would give a breath to businesses, and also concerned the debts to the public and the insurance funds, was inadequate, comprehensible, unrealistic and of course did not work. He stressed at that time that the Economic and Development Department of the New Democracy and the rapporteur at No 4469 Mr Dora Bakoyannis - who would be here today, but you heard the unfortunate fact because of which he is absent - that this law would not work, which, unfortunately, is confirmed at a celebrity today. But your predecessor didn't hear or speak. Of course we voted against that law and unfortunately we were right. The non-judicial mechanism for regulating the debts of businesses and trades has become a major player in the neck of borrowers and has become a court struggle and, of course, not a compromise. The procedures were extremely bureaucratic - you too admitted a few weeks ago - which is why time-consuming. And they're reassigning any possibility of adjusting over time. They did not substantially simplify the procedure for small and micro-enterprises and professionals. While private debt and accumulated debts continue to strangle businesses and free professionals, experience of the operation of the extrajudicial mechanism a year after it was voted, anything but satisfactory. The law, with two years' delay in taking over from the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, was passed in May 2017 and began to apply in August 2017, three months later, but with incomplete planning, unskilled staff and unprepared technical and cognitive electronic background. The result was, eight months later, that is, in April 2018 - I will tell you for today - according to official figures from the Private Debt Management Secretariat - I see here Mr Kurmosi - from about four hundred thousands of businesses, which are unable to serve their debts, having entered the special platform just thirty-one thousand five hundred forty-two businesses by April. Of these 12 thousand three hundred and fifty-two firms have taken the first steps and have finally submitted a thousand fifty-five applications. Of the thirty-two thousand businesses a thousand fifty-five applications arrived. Of them, only forty - eight succeeded in successfully regulating their debts, and most of them with debts to a creditor, not many. Of course today - and I put it in the Minutes - it is yours - that forty-eight has become two - not to say the earlier figures - that is, fifty-two have reached a final stage. April - June, that is, three months later. You understand the functionality of the law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The above figures are indicative of the situation that has been created, by the procedure of subjugation to the extrajudicial mechanism of evolving into real Golgotha for businesses and freelance professionals. Even the Special Secretary for the Management of Private Debts, as I said, recognises the reality of a test and suffering to which the parties are subjected in order to regulate their debts. In fact, all the time before the government has come to recognise - and you, Mr Vice-President, have recognized this - these bureaucratic choices. The limited number of applications is attributed to the particularly strict eligibility and viability criteria laid down by the law. Furthermore, the obligation of the debtors to submit an integrated business plan makes the process difficult and demanding, resulting in a dissuasive operation of a large number of undertakings. This development distorts the initial expectations of the Ministry of Economy for a tool that will lead to massive debt arrangements. The experience gained from the extrajudicial mechanism shows that until now, the extrajudicial mechanism has not achieved its main objective, which was to regulate the debts for companies that had large debts and many creditors. The New Democracy's assessment was therefore confirmed, in practice, that this was a timely and difficult process, which, instead of solving problems, created new, larger and insurmountable problems. Of course, the price is paid by the market and sustainable businesses, which also risk becoming unsustainable after so much time. The new Law 4549/2018, which is the fourth memorandum you voted on a few days ago, did not bring any substantial changes to the extrajudicial mechanism. Once again, unfortunately, for thousands of entrepreneurs, professionals and individuals, reality is different. Small changes are impossible to improve speed and efficiency in the extrajudicial conciliation process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You, Minister, admitted a few weeks ago that it is very difficult for the extrajudicial compromise to work immediately and that it takes time. How much time does it take, however, to pass laws which make no substantial change or solution to the problem, but only further delays in the process and more problems, while every day they break down businesses and households? On the other hand, New Democracy had earlier conducted detailed and documented criticism of the extrajudicial mechanism as planned, voted and started to implement. We have pointed out the many supporting documents. Of course, you will answer today that you have reduced the supporting documents by eleven. But that does not solve the problem. Secondly, the New Democracy also pointed out that all cases of companies, freelance professionals and individuals cannot be treated in the same way as legal and technical status. Thirdly, he pointed out from the outset that the way the mechanism was designed made him only in the name of an exotic, since it almost inevitably led to a judicial involvement. So the process should be simpler. Of course, the New Democracy - I will respect the time, although I can get a little more from my dentext, but then I will say it by listening to some answers from the Minister - is not just left to criticise, Minister. On the other hand, a comprehensive proposal for private debt management has been drawn up and the next draft law will be presented in the near future with the proposed changes. The main and key position of our party is that it needs deep breath in many small businesses and thousands of professionals in our country, as this is the only way to achieve a substantial relaunch of our country's economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final sentence. The main point of our plan is the out-of-court settlement of debts, especially for those who do not have the economic or other power to negotiate their debts. These are the small businesses and the free traders that are also the basis of our economy. I shall continue, Mr President, in my second language, to document both the proposals and the positions of the New Democracy. Because it is good to criticise, but we in the New Democracy, who are at the forefront of the completion of our government programme, have proposals and positions worked out and believe that very quickly with the will of the Greek people and the help of God we will be government. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimas has the floor. Please, Mr Dimas, have some time or, if you want to talk more, get your dentistry too. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'm probably gonna use my dentistry as well. Minister, it was April 10, 2017 when, during the debate on the extrajudicial compromise, we warned you about its failure. More specifically, we have pointed out that we cannot discuss an extrajudicial compromise when, instead of an automated procedure, all its arrangements provide for and lead to the ratification by the courts. We stressed that it cannot operate a framework that asks interested parties to submit twenty-five documents to go through nineteen stages of process. We have asked you to understand that it is necessary to separate the treatment of small businesses from large companies, as such differentiation would significantly reduce the volume of cases that would reach the already charged prototypes and, at the same time, would make it clear that this would not be an impediment to the organised smugglers. For the rest, we could apply a rapid procedure in which, if creditors, the public and the person concerned agree and only if there is objection or objection, there can be an appeal to the court. In addition, we invited you to land in reality, as your bill did not make any care for the accuracy of the information, as it is based on the evidence provided in the debtor’s application, which creates a serious opportunity to misuse and which, together with the various self-just and inhibiting ones, causes damage to banks and other creditors. Finally, Minister, we asked you to tell the world the truth, as with the rhetoric of sedition and debt deletion you have created in much of the market hope that they will be deleted from debts. Those who have listened to you, Minister, who have listened to SYRIZA and have stopped paying their obligations pending a magic solution, are now even more immersed in desperation. What, though, did you answer all the quotes? I raised the minutes of the meetings and remembered them again. At that time, the Minister and the rapporteur of the bill argued that you were bringing in a process that will not take more than three months to work. That's gone down. The Minister said at the time that three hundred thousands of businesses will be integrated into the mechanism - and this has been done - and that we are too much for those who have been talking about an upbringing mechanism that will create further problems. Minister, this has been shot down. And, be careful, in this matter, I do not question your intentions. But, Minister, a law is not judged by the intentions of its inspirations, but by its result. And almost a year and a half after the results are disappointing. A witness described the process as the Special Secretary for Private Debt Management. This is how it is finally for those who are actually trying to join. You know that, too, Minister. Here in a debate in plenary on 27-44-2018 you spoke of serious problems in the process. And how can you support something different when, according to the latest official private debt management secretariat, according to the four hundred thousand companies unable to serve their debts - Mr. Bourras said so - only thirty thousand five hundred forty-two have subscribed to the electronic platform, that is, 7.8% of the companies, while an application has submitted a thousand fifty-five companies, a figure of 0.26%. Those who eventually passed all stages and entered the arrangement were only fifty two businesses from four hundred thousand highly indebted enterprises, 0.013%. I wouldn't call it a success, Minister. I don't know how it could otherwise describe the fiasco of a bill. And it remains fiasco, even though a few days ago you did bring some corrections, which are in fact nothing but minor changes, which will not improve the situation. Minister, admitting the failure of a law is not a shame, contact with reality is, especially when this law, like many others, was written on delusional ones. But it is wrong to recognise that there is a problem, but to keep going wrong. The market, good or bad, has no delusion. Everything is measurable and judged by the result and, unfortunately, the results justify all of us that we have warned in time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. See again the issue of the extrajudicial compromise, because in circumstances it can indeed be a useful tool for resolving disputes, creating a real framework for protecting firms that are having problems. In its present form, however, it has failed miserably. Read the proposals of the New Democracy that we have tabled and proceed as soon as possible to replacement. I shall also refer to my second language. But you have a duty to help many businesses, which are currently stranded by debts, to stay viable and to keep thousands of jobs. So, instead of swinging your head condescendingly, Minister, I think it's time to change the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. I would ask Mr Athanasios to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the past few days your government has served to an unprecedented triumph on every science: Triumph on the shameful agreement on the "Macedonian", triumph on the supposed national success of the debt regulation, triumph that the Prime Minister put on his tie and even more triumph because he took it out! Even today, in the Committee on Production and Trade, half an hour ago, the government triumphed for a bill with which it actually promises vague things for some, while it does not commit anything to anyone and gives no account to anyone. Her own decision will be made by the Minister responsible alone and will distribute whatever she wants and wherever she wants. Of course, I am referring to the equivalent of transport. It is not just that, but you also triumphed about the changes in the mechanism of the extrajudicial compromise. There is no doubt that the extrajudicial compromise is still a huge failure of your government. I would use the term "Waterlo", but "Waterlo" suggests a unique failure of a large size. But with your Government no one knows where to start counting your huge failures and lies! I'm getting clear. Law 4469/2017 was advertised by you as a huge incision and breath for many thousands of debtors. Your announcements then reminded me of the announcements of another government that celebrated the Katseli law. Here I would like to clarify that the Katseli law in its arrest was not bad, especially for periods of time in countries where there is economic hardship. But he was problematic about his practical application and you saw that the courts are now nominated to be fair after 2030. So these two legislations have an important common denominator. They are based on good intentions, but in practice it has proved that there has been no serious advancement at the technical level. Mr. Buras hinted it too. Especially for your out-of-court settlement, we've been telling you it's been going to fail miserably, and why? Because first, the law didn't have a strategic target. Second, he was bureaucratic. And thirdly, he had no flexibility. It is clear that the private debt issue needs a comprehensive and strategic approach. These are issues that in the CYPRUS, that is, the Governmental Board of Private Debt Management, we have been concerned about. In our government, both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Dendias who is present, we identified these issues. It therefore needed an overall strategic approach, which embraces all layers of society and all professional groups, taking into account their specificities. Today you are three and a half years in the government, and all we've seen from you, are patches in the law of Katseli and opening the Greek market to aggressive funds that buy red loans against a lentil plate. No indication of strategy to address the issue. Absolutely rough, fragmented and outside a strategic framework was your initiative on the extrajudicial compromise. What better proof than the issue of free professionals? I will give you an example which we have seen at the time and, of course, we have had a better solution, and I will tell you why. Although they have similar needs to many companies, they could not resort to the extrajudicial compromise, it was partly covered by the Katseli Act, but it is not an out-of-court compromise. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] In addition, we said in the resolution that there should be a plan to succeed: first, for every category of citizens - debtors. Second, for every category of business. And thirdly, for all sorts of debts. As far as the third is concerned, I am subdividing it into more detail as to the type of debt. Firstly, I said public debt at that time. Secondly, debt to the banks. And thirdly, debt from a business or consumer loan that has become nothing of it. For the rest, I was covered by Mr. Buras. As far as the statistics referred to by Mr Bourras are concerned, I do not want to repeat them, and Mr Dimas said so. Just to say about freelance professionals, because the business has been mentioned. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Of the free professionals, 12 thousand seven hundred ninety-nine began the process. Of these seven thousand five hundred forty-four passed the eligibility criteria. A thousand two hundred fifty-one applications were submitted. Only a freelance professional has adjusted his debts toward the CRL. That is, after so long proved by the law, to date, 50 businesses have benefited and a free trader. This is the result of your law to date and, of course, we can only talk about holster fiasco. Now because the time has passed, I'm going to supplement my dentistry, after listening to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u23	Okay. Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that the government's legislative function is not only at the level of procedures but also at the level of substance. Confirmed by the law on the extrajudicial compromise. Let me remind you that when you filed the relevant bill, you refused any change in it, since every change would be afflicted by the troika. That's how you told us. You have finally moved on to changes, even unwittingly, with the recent multi-brand plan, which shows the complete failure of the draft law on the extra-judicial compromise. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the extrajudicial compromise should have as its primary objective the return to normality of companies and debtors who did not lasting for the crisis and accumulated debts, despite the fact that the previous period was consistent. For the government, however, a return to normality means a permanentization of overtaxation practices and anyone who can withstand it. The extrajudicial compromise should be aimed at saving businesses and jobs, excluding strategic malpractices, simplified and flexible procedures to be effective. You were talking about effective procedures when we all pointed out that, through these arrangements, all you have achieved was to make procedures for the extrajudicial compromise ineffective, quite simply because, apart from bureaucracy, the most difficult task is to coordinate public, creditors, debtors and coordinators, to reach the court where there would be a decision. In this way, of course, the extrajudicial compromise has become a judicial compromise. But let us also see the real facts showing the ineffectiveness of this mechanism. This inefficiency is demonstrated by numbers and I shall refer only to enterprises. It is characteristic that there are some four hundred thousand companies that are unable to serve their debts. It is a question that the thirty-two thousand of them and the ones signed on the electronic platform, only a thousand-five, have completed their application and from them only fifty-two have successfully passed all stages, regulating their debts with instalments. Do other elements need to be seen in order to understand the failure of this process? What are the structural problems in the extrajudicial compromise, which essentially fuel its ineffectiveness? Firstly, there is no separation and classification of red loans. There are entrepreneurial loans, private loans, all kinds of bank debts. You don't separate them, and that's wrong. Secondly, there were companies that suspended their operation, but were not bankrupt and could have been given a second chance and incorporated into the arrangements for the extrajudicial compromise. You didn't. That is how we have come up with the poor results that the process has to produce so far. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the problem is public and private debt. The public debt is in your mind that you have set it up and that the problem has been solved. If, however, there was substantial and actual debt regulation, it would not be necessary for the beastly primary surpluses, which have never been achieved by any country on such a scale of time, by 2060. Does the government feel that there are citizens now in this country who can believe what it says to them, who share the vile celebrations we have seen with ties and other graphics? Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, are experiencing their own harsh reality and the hardest version of this reality is private debt, debt not only to banks and third parties but also debt to the public and insurance funds, whose total amount is unthinkable. This is the real problem that is threatening to blow social cohesion up in the air. The Government considers that by the delayed application of the extrajudicial mechanism of debts to the State - debts in favour of third parties collected by the tax administration and established until 31 December 2017, as well as debts to the insurance funds created by 31 December 2017 and to be confirmed by 31 December 2018 - it will resolve the problem. In fact, there is steam, when this explosive mixture of private debt has been created, it imposes bold and decisive solutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Let me remind you that the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, had proposed that those debts to the public be classified as collectors, be subject to a new arrangement of up to a hundred and twenty instalments. The specific regulation of 20 doses must be established on a fixed basis. For small debts of up to EUR 3 000 that relate to more than three million debtors divided into two tranches, one of which should be frozen and treated when the last regulated instalment is paid, and for debts of up to EUR 20,000 to be introduced into the regulation without strict conditions, essentially only with the debtor's application. And debtors of more than EUR 20,000 will be considered on the basis of income and assets, in order to separate those who do not have the opportunity to pay and those who have but do not pay. It is a bold and realistic proposal that gives hope, as did the New Democracy's proposals on the extrajudicial compromise, to which I shall refer, proposals which the government has ignored and ignored, because its aim is to manage political time and not to resolve the deadlock facing thousands of businesses and citizens. The government's answer to all of this is the seizures, auctions and sacks of legislation, such as this for the extrajudicial compromise, which are yet another attempt to mislead and defraud citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Fortsakis, who has changed with Mr Bukkoro to take the floor. They will be maintained the same times. Mr. Fortsakis, will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I'll use the time of my dentistry. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the constant storm of citizens with taxes and excessive burdens has increased private debt. Enterprises are closing down after the other day, freelance professionals can no longer meet their obligations. The prospect of applying an out-of-court mechanism to regulate the debts of businesses has created a lot of hope for entrepreneurs that they will finally be able to come out of the economic tide they have made because of the crisis and government policy and be able to step backwards. By depositing the relevant bill by the then Minister of Economy and Development Mr Dimitris Papademiriou proved, unfortunately, that these hopes were fruits. The New Democracy has noted from the outset the many strangles of Law 4469/2017. Endless bureaucracy, extremely time-consuming process, inevitable final judicial involvement in the whole process. Since the entry into force of the law, it appeared not only its ineffectiveness and its ineffectiveness but also the real vulture that the businesses and the free professionals had to pass on to the regulation. This reality was admitted even by the Special Secretary for Private Debts, Mr Fotis Kourmossiou, who spoke about tests and sufferings to which the parties are subjected, in order to regulate their debts. The serious failure of the extrajudicial compromise clearly shows the numbers. I'll say some more. According to the information provided by the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, of about four hundred thousand companies that have been unable to repay their debts, only thirty-one thousand forty-two have made their subscription on the special electronic platform, only a thousand fifty-five have completed their application and only forty-eight have managed to complete the process and regulate their debts. The law you passed in May 2017, Minister, which did not change in any of its essential respects with the fourth memorandum you voted two weeks ago, has completely failed to give economic breath to Greek entrepreneurs who are struggling to regulate their debts, as the Minister then promised. It's his words. It is necessary for the judicial conciliation procedure to change radically, speed up, simplify and make it more accessible to stakeholders before it is too late for thousands of businesses that are struggling to stand. The position of the New Democracy is clear. My colleague, Mrs Bakoyannis, has made it before you many times. It must end the bureaucratic and time-consuming procedures of the out-of-court compromise, gather all the elements of the debts, banks, public and insurance funds, the existing electronic platform, and there must be a proposal for regulation by the largest creditor's claims with automatic effect, subject to the majority of the other creditors voting. To provide for different procedures in enterprises according to their size and substantial out-of-court settlement of debts with emphasis on those who do not have the power to negotiate their debts, i.e. small businesses and free traders. Take care also of the businesses that have closed down during the crisis, which is not provided for by the current legislation. Our plan includes a comprehensive reform of the bankruptcy procedure, which will give a second chance to those who have paid the consequences of the financial crisis. Finally, there must be a stricter treatment of strategic misappropriators. The integrated proposal of the New Democracy is sure to offer a sustainable solution to businesses so that they can re-activate themselves economically. The aim of the judicial compromise system should be to relieve as many professionals and as many Greek businesses as possible of the unscrupulous debts to them and enable them to start a new start. This breath in business, if it is achieved, will increase liquidity in the market and give the necessary impetus to our economy that is sinking and in need of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the government has lost all contact with reality. He celebrates every time he wants to make the situation look good, thus trying to improve the communication image and, of course, forgets easily. First of all, he forgets what he said. It forgets its commitments and, above all, forgets its appreciation for the future. This was the case with the resolution on the extrajudicial compromise, when the government was talking about seismicity, loan haircuts and sharing hopes in society and interested parties. The Minister at the time said, in fact, that the extrajudicial conciliation procedure could use it as hundreds of thousands of businesses to put an end to overcompensation for the economic crisis in recent years. The government was talking about a law that would breathe to Greek businessmen. The New Democracy then tried to highlight the inadequacy of the government's legislative initiative. He tried to highlight weaknesses, as well as the need for changes and improvements to remove bureaucratic processes. In the virtual reality presented by the government, twenty - seven thousand businesses and seven thousand free professionals believed and entered the process of collecting documents. The reality is, however, different, hard for the government, since only seven hundred applications have been completed and only twenty-three of them have been regulated. Obviously the evidence I mentioned was at some point in time, because they are constantly changing, but unfortunately for you, Mr Vice-President, Minister, the ratio does not change. The figures are similar and the improvement, as it has heard earlier, is insignificant, because in a quarter of eight it becomes fifty-two, one and one business per month, you understand that there is no prospect. Today, with the New Democracy parliamentary initiative, you are given the opportunity, Minister, to make your virtual reality a simple reality, to do the New Democracy's proposal for a rapid, simple, automated, electronic and truly out-of-court procedure. You have no right to trouble the market and the professionals. A lot of anxiety and anxiety have been on their job. If you can't make it easy for them, at least don't trouble them. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you know that, in this place, particularly during the Migration, there were governments during whose term of office the numbers were prospering, not the people and other governments in whose term of office people prospered and not the numbers. In good times both happened. I think you're the only government that doesn't prosper, neither do people nor the numbers of your policies. I say this, Minister, because you have shown that you do not understand the value of time in the economy. You cannot understand that time is money and the out-of-court settlement mechanism of businesses is one of the greatest evidence of this. Okay, you didn't hear the review of the New Democracy. You never listen to her. We are 'the old', 'the outdated'. You are the "new" and "lighted". Your secretariat made a number of events in the local chambers all over the country. There the thoughts heard were very strong. Didn't the voice of business and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises bother you to improve this unbundling construction? I mean, this thing can't be improved. He wants demolition and building from the beginning. It wants to limit supporting documents, speed up procedures and address structural weaknesses. Minister, colleagues have said the figures and I do not intend to repeat them and to be tiring, both to you and to the citizens who are listening to us. However, with fifty-two businesses - out of a total of four hundred thousand companies that owe them either to third parties, banks or insurance funds - to have regulated their debts, one of the thirty-one thousands who were interested in taking the first steps at all, you understand that, in five hundred years' time, we will be done with the regulation of the debts of companies. It's what I told you before, that you don't realize that time is money. You're making some blows, like the last time you set up your debt. You said a lot of talk about this bill of debt regulation with the extrajudicial mechanism. But the results are not pitiful, they are disappointing. Minister, I wonder, did the bank's attitude to this debt regulation mechanism bother you? It is now obvious that banks sabotage the out-of-court settlement mechanism. And not only that, Minister, but we have complaints from the whole of the Greek region that, when they apply for membership, the diversion begins. They refuse to denounce credit contracts, refuse to issue cheque bloc banks, they do not open the applications for POS and e-banking, and thus jeopardise the viability of companies affected by the crisis that are required and live day after day. Shouldn't the government have made an intervention in this? Why do you not allow it, through a reform of the law, to be at the discretion of the trader or the company, whether it will use its debts as a whole or whether it will apply only to debts to third parties or only to debts to banks and insurance funds? That'll make the law more operational. He'll release possibilities. Minister, as the New Democracy has pointed out from the outset, but as the market has pointed out, when we talk about four hundred thousand companies, we talk at least about two million Greeks. That's how many of them are involved in this dysfunctional bill, that's how many keeps locked up. We are talking about the real economy, which your Government has repeatedly demonstrated is ignoring. Don't be bragged, Minister, that we've been through a time of growth. At a time of growth we had passed since 2014. It is demonstrated and updated by ELSTAT. We have lost three and a half years over the days of your own governance. In other words, we have delayed growth, with incalculable consequences of many billions of euros in the real economy, but also in the businesses we are talking about today. Now we are achieving weak and unsustainable growth rates. You realize that 1% and 1.5% can't get us out of the tunnel after three and a half years of underdevelopment, economic misfortune and investment apnea, Minister. I shall return to my denture with some comments on how this bill can be improved. But I would point out to you, Minister, that the market, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, feel captive, enclaved, while waiting - and the state should have done - such a bill. After so many years of crisis they expected a kind of economic liberation, and the traders and the free traders, whom you joined the platform four weeks ago, in the extrajudicial mechanism. The Self-employed Fund, Minister, joined nine months after the entry into force of the law. It is what I tell you for the third time, that you do not understand that time is money, especially in the economy. I will come back with a few remarks because the economy, the real economy, needs moves to liberate itself, or the country will not come out of the dark tunnel, no matter how many celebrations are held in Zappeion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr Ioannis Drasakis has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Members for their question, which gives us the opportunity to discuss a very serious problem. Of course, general comments were made. I think we can discuss it all. The problem is serious because we must drastically reduce red loans if we want to have a banking system. And we have to do this on our own. Because if we do not do this on our own, we may be forced to implement mandates, because the European Union is moving forward from what is seen in the Banking Union. This presupposes that non-performing loans, because they represent a risk, should be at the same level in all countries. A country cannot have 40% of red loans and the other can have 5% red loans. So the problem is very serious and we need to see it. We need to see what we did and what we can do. In remarks now. First of all, as far as the Zappeion is concerned. We go to Zappeion when we have something to say, when we have a result to show, when we have a success to show. We are not going when we have just promises to give, which are not being fulfilled. At the moment you may disagree, but the whole world agrees, I mean all Europe agrees, that what has been achieved allows Greece to stand on its feet, to leave the circle of memoranda. We have 15 years in front of us at least - without the hard debt, with the administrative costs of debt service - which, if we use them properly and for the benefit of society, may not have to talk again about what we have experienced in the past. Of course, I've heard a lot of things. I'll see you with other opportunities. I am surprised to hear Mr Bourrain complain that we will have surpluses from 2022 to 2060. But we are in the European Union, Mr Bourrai, and we are subject to the Stability Pact. Don't you know what the Stability Pact provides for? Do you not know that those countries with a debt of more than 60% each year must reduce their debt by 1/20? Do you not know that if there was no negotiation, this surplus would have been even greater? And, of course, nothing excludes the future, if we move on, all these long-term negotiations will be renegotiated. However, it is not possible for a party, such as you, called a European party, to speak as if we were outside the institutional framework and outside regulations, when you defended the regulations. We have our own views on these issues. But I come to the main issue of the question to say that I have listened carefully to your comments. What I heard were your comments in our policy. The suggestions you have made will be given in dentistry. I'll be here and then to listen to them. I also heard lessons, telling us that we don't know how to measure time. But every year the red loans went up, Mr. Comrade, and this mountain became, didn't you count it? And all these nice ideas that I heard here from Mr. Vlato about a system that is fast, simple, automatic that solves the problems automatically, so many years that you were government, didn't you attempt? I know that Mr. Dendias has made an effort, which he might be talking about himself. It is not just these issues, because in order for there to be solutions, there must be cooperation, harmonisation of interests, systems to be tested, the institution to be tested. You were raped to make an account. It is premature to account, because we are here, to study reality, to try what we are implementing, to listen to your own comments and to try to improve the system. I was also impressed that you did not mention the problem itself. How did this problem arise, this mountain of red loans? Can we talk about the solution to a problem, if we do not have a view, some picture of the causes that created it? And are there responsibilities for that? You only see the government. The exception is the last colleague to say something about the banks. And it's right what he said. I don't know if it's completely right, if it's all right, but there are such cases. I would therefore like to briefly remind you - precisely in order to be aware of the depth and extent of the problem we have to face - that this problem reflects, firstly, the behaviour and politics of banks and governments before the crisis. The way in which the loans were being given before the crisis is to a measure and to some extent to the convenience with which this whole mountain of red loans was then created. Secondly, it is the policy of the first and second Memorandums. The abrupt downsizing of the economy, the sharp and huge increase in unemployment, the sharp and unprecedented decline in incomes led to many, whether citizens, employees, or entrepreneurs, being unable to meet their obligations. And the third cause is the inertia of the governments, including your own government. You have given us a mountain of unhelpful loans, without any institutional framework to deal with them. It is noteworthy - it is written in a report by the Special Secretary for Private Debt - that by the end of 2014 there was no institutional instrument for regulating the red loans of enterprises and the banks effectively recycled and extended the loans, which accumulated large increases due to the continuous growth in interest rates. The Law Treasury passed in mid-November 2014 had no response from the market, since only a hundred and fifty applications were made and debts were successfully settled for three companies. I'm not going to talk about modesty and some restraint that anyone would expect. However, there are historical events which are bored by us today. We have tried and created an integrated institutional framework. We improved the Katseli - Statakis law, as it evolved. We have created the extrajudicial compromise, a new institution with difficulties in all the countries of Europe. In fact, I must say that the institutions were very hesitant even in the changes we have been making lately. Their view was that we should let the institution be tested and then make changes. Finally, they were convinced, of course, and we have made some changes, to which I shall refer. Electronic auctions are on the way. Even from the information given to me, we also have the positive fact that about 30% to 40% of cases are settled before the auction takes place, and that is the greatest benefit, I think. I should also like to say that there have been hesitations or even undermining the institution of the extrajudicial and non-banking circuits, such as accounting, legal interests and others, but also the banks, whether they have understood its importance or have not been able to meet its demands. However, the fact is that, at the moment we are talking about, I, at least as Minister, want to say that there is a climate of cooperation between all the actors involved in order to speed up the institution, because the banks are also on a mandatory path, as I said, and they must reduce more drasticly, faster red loans. What have we done with the latest changes that you have, I believe, made by opposition? We, firstly, widened the scope of the law. Secondly, we have simplified the procedures considerably and accelerated the whole process - there are even now blockages, then we can say some details - so that more, faster and more simply, can go through this process. That is why I think that on a next question or another occasion we will have to come to September - October, I believe, and hope that the results will be impressively different. We have therefore widened the range of eligible, let me say that. As you said, free professionals entered. On Wednesday the platform for farmers is opening up and I slowly think that the number of people who cannot enter is very limited. We have therefore given the opportunity to regulate their debts to public, ECA and taxes and we have raised the level. From 100,000 that it was, now it's up to 250,000. This means that debtors of this category, who could not before enter the system and regulate their debts with a hundred and twenty instalments, can now do so. And I would expect that this will be recognised as a positive event, since we are all told. In this way, we cover statistically around 95% of debtors. So these arrangements are given, we believe, a breath to those who belong to these categories. Secondly, we have enabled them to become part of the regulation of the hundreds of twenty instalments and debts created in 2017. Therefore, cumulative debts up to 31-12-2017 can be entered into the arrangement. Thirdly, we have enabled those with real estate of more than EUR 1,2 million, which was planned so far and who have reached a level of EUR 4 million. Finally, the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses can be integrated and those who had been previously regulated, without being completed and therefore reintroduced, let me say this or reintroduce them to the one hundred and twenty doses. I would, however, like, ladies and gentlemen, to have a sense of size and a sense of the fact that the extrajudicial arrangement is one of the tools. That is, if the banks do not make arrangements on their own, if the banks do not try to address those under Katselis - Stathakis - to propose solutions to them so that they do not have to wait for the court and if the banks - which they have committed - do not try at the same centrally - because the banks are large bureaucratic mechanisms - to identify businesses and with their own programmes to ensure that a number of such businesses go through the system, then I have to tell you that there will be a problem. And I say this because red loans reached the maximum amount in 2014, at EUR 78.5 billion, it has since begun reducing them, we closed in 2017 to EUR 66 billion, but they are still too high. Therefore, the objective remains, and I believe that all efforts must be intensified on all sides. I have spoken before about the reasons that you have overlooked, apart from Mr Bukkokouros, which has referred to this a little bit. I won't talk about undermining the banks, because it's a heavy conversation. I shall, however, speak of something that is also written in the papers. I read you from the "KYRIAKIS CHEMICAL" of the previous: "The inconsistency, the different priorities and the pursuits of the banks create obstacles, delays and postponements in the regulation of red loans, particularly of business". In many cases, in order to achieve a sustainable solution, brave haircuts are required, but if banks among themselves have different degrees of exposure to an enterprise or different guarantees, the banks usually take too long to agree with each other on the haircut that needs to be done. The day before yesterday, he closed a case, which I have been reading in the newspapers for years, the fish farms. It's not the government's fault. Of course, the government has the political responsibility for what is happening, but although we here in this House do not agree that we will take on the political responsibilities of cases, but at the same time put pressure on all the actors, which have an impact on the final result, then that creates a difficulty. So I say that the government has the political responsibility, but also the banks must run faster, more bold, more resolute, more planned and in cooperation with the relevant ministries. Also, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as well as the EPCA and all of us, must run faster, because that is the only way we can deal with the problem. I would now like to make a few final comments, because I think it has been understood - at least that is what I am trying to say - that the system that we are creating is a dynamic system. There is nothing in the world as a magical recipe that one can apply. You apply a system, you monitor its evolution, you see its weaknesses and you improve it. He was right to say that the first phase was a torture, and now that we are talking about cases - and we know them - because there has not yet been one solution, because the same detail has not been resolved because experts have to be given'submission', because experts are to be seen as a supply and a tender has to be made for'submission'. I do not want to bore you with such things, but since you too have governmental experience and greater than we do, I believe that this is what you need to keep in mind and force us to solve them. I don't call it an alibi. But, in conclusion, what I want to say is that you have created the problem, which we are trying to solve. That must exist, that's for sure. You cannot speak as honorers and from a high point of view and criticise us if the way in which we are going to deal with the problem has disadvantages, which we must resolve and improve, because we, as I said, recognise and recognise difficulties and weaknesses and mistakes. We're not pretending to be the infallible government. The second thing I want to say is that you are talking a lot about small and medium-sized enterprises and expressing a sorrow when you talk about the fate of small and medium-sized enterprises. But your government, under pressure from both the International Fund and the other institutions, has implemented a clearing policy, a Darbian policy. That was the view, that was the idea: we need to shut down companies, which are unable to withstand, so that in the area that the so-called healthy businesses will be able to blossom. And to us these pressures were exerted on us and we were intensely exerted on us. I think we tried and resisted. You have not been able to impose on the institutions, to convince them that there must be 100 doses. We managed, the hundred and twenty doses had been put into effect. So don't talk like you've suddenly come to this planet called Greece. I repeat: a dissolutionary economic policy has been implemented in recent years. They closed hundreds of thousands of businesses. We, with our overall policy, but in particular with the policy on regulation of red loans, are trying to create second chance conditions for businesses, which have an experience, have an idea, and that is why our policy does not only stop in regulating red loans. We are preparing to create other tools, including some funds, 'capital contributions' are said, of this type, as a cultural capital, because when an operation passes through the extrajudicial procedure and regulates its loans, then this company probably wants a working capital as well as equity capital. Our intention, then, is to create restructuring funds that can enter such enterprises so that the mechanism is complete. The highly indebted company regulates its loans, exploits possibilities so that it can find funds, which it lacks and can develop. If we manage to save real businesses that have a prospect, that will be a success and, of course, we will save employment, because that is what this is about. So we have a system in progress. In the first phase, difficulties appeared. I believe that from now on the potential of this system will appear, but I would also like to see a greater pressure on all of the factors involved, which is affected and dependent on dealing with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr Vice President. And the consistency of time in private. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr. Dendias, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I, like the Vice-President of the Government, will try to respect Parliament's and colleagues' time, but I can only begin with his abhorrence in response to my colleagues in the New Democracy, in order to regulate the debt and the reasons for the Zappeion presence. You told us, Mr Vice President, that you are going to Zappeion, when you have something to announce and when you have nothing to announce, and when you have something to promise you do not go to Zappeion. That is indeed quite accurate. If I remember correctly, when you have something to promise and even something totally refreshing, go to Thessaloniki. That is what the historical memory of the Greek people says. And the rest of the message, the rest of the fairy tale, which you do not share - because I have to observe the modesty with which, in representing the government in general, you are, Mr Vice-President - ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, I have said a few or many lies, but there was a cleansing. Why was there a clearance? Says the Prime Minister. Because after the referendum, in the autumn of 2015 I went to the Greek people and renewed the mandate. So don't tell me about Thessaloniki, the Prime Minister says. Siloam's swimm - the Prime Minister says - there was a later. Honestly, Mr Vice-President, if you have the kindness to bring the Prime Minister or you or any Minister here once in Parliament the programme that SYRIZA was elected in the autumn of 2015. Andersen's second series of fairy tales. For other fairy tales in Thessaloniki, other fairy tales in the autumn. I say this so that the impressions that SYRIZA is the serious party, which is going to Zappeion when he has something to announce seriously. I have to say again for half a minute about the Zappeion, before entering the very serious issue, which, thanks to the question by the honourable Members, we are debating today. I do not think anyone in the Greek society has failed to notice that in this case in Zappeion, it was a timer - put the tie, take off the tie, and all that is relevant - because the reality is that the regulation that you have taken was an absolutely inadequate regulation. That's a fact. Other promises had been made by the country since November 2012, do not be mocked. And I will use what, in this case partly true, the Prime Minister, who said: 'an extrapolation'? Good. They long off the rope we'll hang with." So how, in the past was a rope from which to hang, now suddenly became the source of life, the revival of the nation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u35	It's elastic now the rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u36	That is why, if you are kind, Mr Vice-President - and I am referring in general to the ministers - it is all right, when we are calling for the country's so-called normalisation, that is, a little - very much - to be told with a general sense of the measure that they constitute. We understand the need for the Prime Minister to see if the tie does not take him, if the tie does not take him all the same, but in any case not that the Greek people take them very seriously. We fully understand the deadlocks found in the government's economic policy. I now come to the huge issue of red loans, the top issue - in my opinion - of the Greek economy, which I have been holding for many years. You were kind, Mr. Vice President, to mention the effort I recommended in August 2014 and was legislated somewhere in November 2014, on the day I left the Ministry, to go to the Ministry of National Defence. Mr L.4307, ladies and gentlemen, it was the New Democracy's attempt to deal with the big issue of red loans. It was an attempt, which in the end did not bring the results, which the legislator had in mind, when he arrested the law. And I am not talking about me, as legislator, of course, but about the whole of the people and the part of the then government, who have recommended this view. And why didn't he bring them? He didn't bring it, because it wasn't complete. For Law No.4307 only concerned relations with the banking system, with the private part of the debt. It did not concern public debts, it did not relate to the debts to the insurance funds. The concept at the time of me and my colleagues and a large section of government officials was that there had to be a holistic approach. And because the government did not agree at that time on this holistic approach, the place was legislated and, of course, this place was not as successful as we would like. That's the truth. In other words, both Law No.4305 and Law No.4302 must be united with Law No.4307. We are now talking about many numbers, but at any rate, in order to record the point of view. But that's not the only reason. Why should I remind you, Mr Vice-President, that at that time the upcoming SYRIZA, through the lips of Mr Stathakis, promised complete seism. So he said, "Why would you join the law Trees, after we come and give you everything?" And, of course, there was no reason to join a law that made it cut to 50%, when the opposition, which took place in the polls, promised him a 100% discount. So how can the law work? This is something that the present government is not facing at the moment. None of the New Democracy colleagues here, who at the end - in the end, opposing their work, could say anything more. They didn't say anything, they didn't promise anything. They criticised serious, responsible and measure. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Thus, while the efforts of the New Democracy may have failed - for whatever reason - L.4469 failed, precisely for the reasons we have identified, for its initial inadequacy, which the then fellow Members and rapporteurs here in New Democracy had predicted to the then Minister for Development, who had proposed it. He was told that it is bureaucratic, that it is not going to work, that in the end - and again it refers to Greek justice, and that is why it is not going to be achieved by that. And yet all this was ignored at the time. These are SYRIZA's things. And because you have indicated to the New Democracy to look a little bit at the numbers and consider its responsibilities - to consider the New Democracy's responsibilities - many have done so, but, Mr Vice-President, do you remember me once, when SYRIZA has done an elementary self-criticism, to say 'Here I misled'? All we heard was the delusional ones. And why am I saying that? You're talking about numbers. Then the issue of red loans reached its top. In 63.650.492.000 it arrived in June 2016, after more than two years of government SYRIZA. For more than two years of your own government, the figures have been upwards and upwards by billions. Today, which is 53,900,000, nearly 54 billion - these are the elements - they are exactly where they were in January 2014. So we spent three and a half years government SYRIZA to come right where New Democracy had the issue in January 2014. So, what have you done these three and a half years? Well, let's know. Or should we get the rest of the figures? But I don't even want to consume the whole year. Right now, we all agree on the evidence, we have forty-two settings. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u37	Fifty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u38	My colleague, Mr Dimas, told me that he was fifty-two. Yes, sir. We did some bills and on a total of four hundred thousand cases, we have 0.013%. Law 4469 has offered the huge problem of red loans the resolution of 0.013%! And, of course, the Vice-President is right and says, "Wait, the law is strong." It is very dynamic, because with a clipboard account I have made, at this rate of rate, the problem will be resolved between 3007 and 3009! Of course, by 3007 we have all the time to make comments, to discuss it, to change it, to look at it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u39	Since no new ones are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u40	Yeah, okay, maybe that's where it stops. Well, that's not possible. Here, if we are talking about a top issue of the Greek economy, the government must take it seriously. I do not understand what we are being asked for again. If we take the Minutes of the debate on L.4469/2016, are there not our suggestions within? Let me get them and see them. First of all, I remember what I said. It will be funny to repeat for the second time after two years what I said two years ago with my colleagues. We've all been right. What we were talking about at the time, that's exactly what happened at the end. The law didn't work. Therefore, if the government would like to model what to do, then it is to go back to the debate then take the Minutes, see what we were telling her and copy them. Or if the government wants to do something simpler, then to do the opposite of what it does. Because what he does doesn't work. It's all registered, Mr. Vice President. If there is one qualification in Parliament's procedure, it is that everything is registered and stayed. Everything anticipated by the Opposition has been done. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is a very big one and it is a very serious one. Because, badly lies, economic growth cannot be achieved, when almost 50% of bank loans - you want 40% and something, it doesn't matter - they are not served. The European average or rather the acceptable world average is 9%, i.e. we have five, six, seven times or 700% more non-performing loans. That way the country can't stand on its feet. Investments in what vehicles will they come? Where are they going? Where will the investors' money be placed, which we all call on? The 110, 120 billion, which we all say is needed for the country to get back on its feet, where will they be invested? There should be healthy bodies so that this money can come and be invested. They cannot be invested only by zero in new entities that are now to be created. If that is the case - it has been said by colleagues here - the jobs that exist will not be protected. In the end, the restructuring of enterprises is for the worker himself and for the fight against unemployment. So what the government has to do is just go back to 2016, look at what we were telling her and follow what we were talking about at the time. And if, Mr Vice-President, the government has been kind at all times, I say that it is good for us to ask for an apology for what he has said all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much to Mr Teddy and to the economy in time. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with thinking that the basic principle of successful countries and democracies is that they should never be happy and always try for the most and for the best. If you want, this healthy political stress is also the driving force of progress. However, this is far too far away from the political negligence our Government is constantly experiencing from centres and centers, striving from the depth of Anti-Population, but it is far from the cumulative narratives, which we obviously neither want nor should embrace. It is obvious that if we were to negotiate the debt ourselves, with ourselves, if there were no political audience in Europe, we would have achieved much more. However, history is written by the political capacity but also by the circumstance in which this political capacity develops. Greece has therefore, in this pragmatic context, determined by the real circumstances and not by some imaginary juncture, a good deal of debt. It is good because it enables us to move forward in the next decade, taking the necessary steps to modernise our society and to improve our country's productive potential. And it's good, because it enables us to gradually return to the markets. It is obvious that there will be a framework of supervision. After all, we'd have a surveillance framework. We have already had a surveillance framework for two decades now that we have worn the narrow jacket of the euro. At the same time, the agreement is good, because it draws our country from the spotlight of bad publicity and restores it to a normality that is so much needed at this time. However, nothing changes, nothing improves and no one advances, if it considers that all of this is an instant attempt and if it believes that in democracies it is judged by decisions or moves, whether good or bad, one-week or one-week. As we have not been bankrupt, ladies and gentlemen, within a week or within one year, we are not going to go back to a zealous regularity in a year, let alone immediately after a Eurogroup. So the agreement is a good deal and it is a step forward. It could in another context be a different agreement, better. However, decisions are always made in real conditions rather than under conditions that we have imagined or which we would like to see different. To close my little intervention on the debt issue, I would say that I think it is the greatest demand that we constantly improve our position and ourselves every day, which I think this government is doing in an excellent manner, as it also has capable people, but it also has the necessary mood and of course does not have the commitments and the barons that other parties have. I now come to the question of questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the management of non-performing loans that have rapidly increased in the difficult years that have passed was the greatest thorn for the economy, a thorn for which your Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, did not dare to engage, which led to the launch of the red loans in the years 2012-2014. It is our Government that has dared and made the necessary institutional and non-interventions to address this major economic, social and political problem of red loans. Already, on the basis of the statistics of the Statistical Office and of the Bank of Greece, in 2015 the rapid increase in red loans was halted, in 2016 the situation stabilised and in 2017, for the first time since the crisis, they were reduced by 11.4 billion euros. However, unhelpful business exposures are still very high. For this reason, the banks have committed themselves to reducing these exposures in the period 2018-2019 by 20% and over the next two years 2020-2021 from the first contacts we have with SSM it appears that the commitment by domestic credit institutions to reduce non-performing exposures to the levels of 17% by the end of 2021 is preferred. This is because only with these performances will the Greek systemic groups be able to obtain the necessary solvency certificate for their entry into the European interbank union sometime after 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, Law 4469/2017 on the extrajudicial mechanism is a vibrant mechanism that is constantly expanding, improving and automated, constantly gaining the confidence of the involved parties and society. Already six thousand and thirty-three companies meet the eligibility criteria and are expected to benefit from the extrajudicial mechanism arrangements. Thousands of hundred and fifty-eight companies have submitted final applications and fifty-two businesses, as was said in this Chamber, have completed the process. In fact, in only one case, the practice of the restructuring plan had to be submitted to the court for ratification, which proves that the extrajudicial mechanism is an ex-judicial procedure. In fact, the rate of increase in the number of favoured enterprises will be spectacularly accelerated next Wednesday, when the operation of the new electronic platform, which will include the following, will be opened: first, the possibility of applying from farmers and in general individuals operating in business without, however, having the bankruptcy capacity, not only for their public debts, but also for banks and insurance funds and the possibility of adjusting debts to banks, private and insurance funds which were born until 31 December 2017 or which were established, if it is a public issue, until 31 December 2017. In view of the fact that the new regulations enabled the co-operatives of personal companies to regulate their personal loans on the basis of the possibilities of repayment of their own businesses, it is reasonable and reasonable to increase the submission of applications by personal companies for membership of the extrajudicial mechanism. With regard to the freelance professionals, now, let us note that in the first five months of operation of the platform ten thousand freelance professionals started their process of integration and there have already been definitively a thousand two hundred fifty-one applications. We are looking forward to the increase in the amount of debt that free professionals can regulate, in a hundred and twenty-five thousand for the insurance funds and in addition to a hundred and twenty-five thousand for the taxes, the number of favoured free professionals to multiply here as well. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. For any failure, then, we are being blamed by the opposition, which, for the law, was concerned, Mr Treasury, only a hundred and fifty businesses, of which only three have benefited from the provisions, I think the truth is true. So he was raped to judge us now that L.4469/2017 only counts one year, because thanks to the recent changes in the extrajudicial procedure the process is even more automated and the remaining seventeen thousand electronic applications of businesses and free trades will be submitted definitively in the next few days. So then the Opposition wouldn't dare blame us for failure. In particular, not only are the necessary information from banks, taxes and insurance funds automatically recovered from the Special Secretariat's online platform, but half of the supporting documents are removed. In fact, the Joint Ministerial Decision adopted on 14 June only three supporting documents must be submitted together with the application and the remaining eight supporting documents after it was lodged. Ladies and gentlemen, all these changes I have mentioned are aimed at two main axes: the maximum possible integration of businesses, but also free professionals in the provisions of the extrajudicial law and the greatest possible simplification of their integration procedures. The third necessary axis of the proposed arrangements is, of course, the improvement of cooperation between the debtor and his creditors, since without this cooperation no extrajudicial regulation can be achieved. So, with the new regulations, we are extending the suspension of the forced enforcement measures even in cases of bilateral negotiations, which have not been in place until now, and we are extending the period of suspension from seventy days to ninety days. The possibility is also provided for bank accounts seized by both public and private creditors or by banks as soon as the practical restructuring compromise has been completed, so that the company can obtain the amounts seized and thus ensure the necessary liquidity necessary for its viability. Ladies and gentlemen, for the success of the planned regulation of business debts and free professionals, the consent of the banks is also necessary. The banks must take up their share of responsibility for this deep crisis that we have experienced in recent years, which has also led us to the impregnable and unsecured lending that they have provided. Banks need to carry out the necessary reform of their strategy to provide sustainable solutions to businesses. Otherwise, they will be trapped in a collapsory role, a role that will not allow them to come into orbit growth and to emerge from the deadlock in which they themselves have been caught all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Jackrey, please complete. Nearly nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President, if you give me a minute. In fact, the interconnection of the public and bank database does not justify any distrust anymore with regard to the required regulation of their debts, since this reveals the strategic misappropriations. To sum up, it must be stressed that all these improvements that have been made, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of tough government negotiations with the institutions, hard and continuous work of all the state actors involved with the capital of the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts, which is in uninterrupted consultation and cooperation with all the institutions involved, so that this vibrant mechanism for the out-of-court settlement of debts does not only succeed in ensuring the viability of Greek companies, but also in obtaining a development mark, which is also the objective of this government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I remember, Minister, about a year and a half ago here in this Chamber all the debate that has taken place and what exactly we supported as a Democratic Consensus. Not to say much, we had tabled ten proposals. It says so because, by addressing the New Democracy, you have asked for proposals. For refreshing my memory, I'm putting it back in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we had assembled our final decision - to vote or not to vote - from the acceptance of some of these proposals, not of the rather generous, but of these measured and functional proposals. Some of them Mr Papadimitriou had gone through and had not even commented. I would like to say to you in relation to these proposals, two proposals: one - will look too much and outside of the situation and the circumstances - it was about the possibility for some businesses to create a special non-confidential account. I have a picture of cases that combine the face of a small businessman and a lot of disease problems in a multiple family. No care for this combination! At the same time we have tabled a very functional proposal, which must be respected and now: that the ratification of his judgment should not be required after the conclusion of the extrajudicial conciliation, but in order to make the compromise with a formula stronger than the co-ordinator's act to be lodged with the secretariat of the competent court and that this should be sufficient, or even a judicial provision should be required, i.e. by a judge outside the court's function, by exercising his administrative powers rather than his judicial duties. We were talking about this, and the Minister was listening as if we were saying things incomprehensible. And the result of a narrow-minded and unprecedented legislative procedure is what was described by the very useful topical question that we are debating today and which is summarized not in many words, but in the number of cases that have, for time, been dealt with by the coordinators. We, Minister, have made proposals with two types of objectives. The more cases that are included in the extrajudicial compromise are good for this purpose and for the quicker functioning of the institution, the more co-ordinators become responsible, the better. And we had proposed - among the ten proposals that we have made - that the official, the specific ombudsmen of the Ministry of Justice, who have experience and are well qualified and evaluated by the act itself, should also be included. "No" to everything! And the result is to be seen, as condensed in the number: Minimum dozens of cases have come to an end, without legal proceedings being completed. So, you're in front of a challenge. And you said earlier to colleagues in the New Democracy that we will be speeding up the procedures in September. September is after two, three months. You will be well advised - and that is where you will be called - by us this time - to tell us what the development of the matter is about a matter, Mr President, which is not about a few simple figures and citizens, to whom the government does not show confidence, but about development. Because, in the assessment of banks, if companies are allowed to regulate their obligations to the banks, many of them - in fact, the number of companies is too large, seven out of ten - can be viable companies, and today they go from bad to worse. I should like to close my position, Mr President, with one intervention in relation to the dialogue that has previously been held on public debt. I'm not going to talk about attempted communication. I will only say that when anyone celebrates a victory, the benefitor, that is, the people, is present at the celebration. You, to celebrate, wanted ten degrees of MATs to surround the space you're in. And we're actually going. What is it about which one is legitimate to celebrate? Do the primary surpluses, 32 billion to 34 billion euros, which the Greek people and the economy must bleed until 2022 to achieve? Did the supervision, which ad perpetuum has been established by this regulation, the debt issue, as a memorial era that does not meet in any of the other countries that came out of the memoranda? Is it the quarantine of tax-free and pensions? The prolongation, of course, is ten years. And that's good. Wasn't it a ten-year-old with the 2012-2014 arrangements? Is there a nominal debt reduction? There is no reduction in interest rates, Mr President, any reference to the development clause being discussed, in the French proposal, and nothing to do with the sum of EUR 4.8 billion, which is the return from the profits of the central banks, with the EUR 7.7 billion provided for in our own rules, which Mr Varoufakis has thrown away with Mr Tsipras and always the residence of the capital controls. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, "as you dress or invest nothing, again nothing remains", to use a phrase of a very important English politician of the past. But, here we are, there is a need for specific clarification from the government, specific explanations of the issues that we ask about. And today the issue that the government is asking is how to proceed with the extrajudicial compromise, which is so important for development. And it is called on the Minister in his denture to say how he sees operating interventions in this bureaucratic structure, so that in September - I hope he is right - we have specific developments in a positive direction. If it remains in the current law, I do not think there is any hope that this institution will give rapid results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Panayotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing a very serious issue, which is about hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and free traders. Before entering the question of the New Democracy, however, I should like to refer briefly to the pajali which we saw in Zappeion the day before yesterday. The "Zapopea" are now interlinked with the worst of the Greek political scene in recent years and especially in the years of the memoranda. How did this great benefactor know when he gave his money to build this emblematic building for what uses would be used by the political leadership of this place! This tough negotiation, which we have heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, reminds us - and it is now confirmed - that it is a joke and, rather, that those who invoke it should not have any idea of how to negotiate. And most importantly of all, almost all those who have boasted the country - previous and now - who are talking about development, for measures, for this failed bill of extrajudicial compromise, etc., has not stuck a single sign in TEBE, so he doesn't know what it is to be a freelance, what it means to be a development. The penovatte, the backbone of each healthy economy is small and medium-sized enterprises, contrary to the toxic role played by the majority of multinationals, most of them. The crisis hit the small and medium-sized ones, as well as some large ones, who - by chance! - to their vast majority were Greeks. Because, as we said before, multinationals have the possibility of slipping, leaving, changing seats, going elsewhere, having funding from too many foreign banks, unlike Greek businesses. The young people do not have the convenience of immigration, of closing and taking their home somewhere else or getting up and going somewhere else, because that is the nature of the small and medium-sized ones who cannot do it. It is not even possible, as the great, imported, multinationals are going through. You can't even close most of them. Many want to close down, go to the wish of all that has been experienced in Greece in recent years and do something else, become employees, delinquents, emigrate abroad, and very simply cannot because of the bureaucracy and the various laws that exist. Also, many of those who close and beg to enter the extrajudicial compromise owe the public or banks a ‘alpha’ amount and the public owes them much more. However, there is no way that debts should be cleared to and even regulated on favourable terms. Single - scales and zero in favour of this philosophical and anti-Hellenic state. They are fighting unequally with multinationals, especially after 2015, with the imposition of capital controls, which was not possible to finance anywhere for Greek companies, unlike the multinationals that could very easily, as we said, find funding from everywhere. They do not have the flexibility of their own currency, because we have here in Greece for some years now the famous euro, we are in the hard core of the euro area and we have been destroyed almost all, so to do the hooeys and the strangest of some. Of course, as we said before, there is no possibility of lending even now. Here is a small parentheses: one of the systemic banks that has been bankrupt many times, which has received tens of billions of euros of government guarantees up to the beginning of the memorandum, which has been recapitalised many times and has taken too much money - three recapitalisations and bankrupt all three times, the guarantees go and the shares are no longer worthy - it is now advertised that six out of seven loan applicants are satisfied. Obviously the asterisk that does not exist - and this is a matter that the relevant Ministry will answer us at some point - is that in the thousands who are desperately making a request for a loan, most of them are rejected, and obviously six of the seven are from those who have a home for attachment or anything else. We're talking about borrowing. We are talking about banks that have lended a lot of comfort and state-aided ‘Marinopoulos’, for which they have all known for many years that they were heading for the rocks and they were constantly giving them money. We are talking about banks that, instead of financing growth, gave almost EUR 500 million to the bankrupt parties in PASOK and New Democracy, where they will of course take absolutely nothing back, despite what they hear is being regulated, etc. Of course, those are words of the air. At the same time, when some people are hand-wrapped in honey, such as the "KERYKA CHANIA", they make it most favourable in terms of repayment, which would be the pleasure of each freelance professional to be able to him, gentlemen of the New Democracy - let me, Mr President - to regulate his loans, just as the Chief of Staff of the Anti-Population, Mr. Mitsotakis, has set them up with "KERYKA KANI". But the small and medium-sized ones don't, nothing at all. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the law and the Constitution vindicates them to many of these unequal battles with the banks, they find no help from anyone. Where, then, can money be left to finance development? We hear and read things about startups, about, etc. and if you do the statistics for these neonates, how many people open and close after a while or go abroad, because here they can't find anything at all, you will understand how distorted the whole system is, which operates in our homeland, to the detriment of Greek traders or free professionals. Your memorial laws "sex" on the neck of free professionals like Alexis's tie, which for the Greeks is worn in the Colombian way. Confiscations everywhere. Connecting arrangements with the fixed and current ones, something very simple, what everyone is asking you to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] First, there must be an impediment to an account. How will a company work when all the money it collects - why is it all via the bank - confiscated by the IKA, by the tax office, by anyone from the banks and unable to operate, even by an amount? We've explained how this can be done without being viewed as thieves and scumbags. We see that with your Memorandum Law the previous arrangements are linked to current regulations. You must be aware of everything, not having something late, but with current debts that have not been regulated. All of this together makes it impossible to survive a free profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u50	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Forgive me. The failure of the extrajudicial compromise is that since the expectation of the four hundred thousand businesses that would be part of this extrajudicial compromise, only twenty-seven thousand businesses and seven thousand entrepreneurs have filed the papers, seven hundred have completed the application. We say that to complete the request for an extrajudicial compromise, you must have obtained four degrees, because otherwise it's almost impossible. You need to be in direct collaboration with an accounting officer and another ten agencies. Finally, only twenty - three managed to regulate. This is the failure of your extrajudicial compromise. There's nothing you can do. They won't let you do anything. You don't want to do anything. It doesn't give you a nail, because very simply, as we said before, you haven't stuck a single sign on TSE and you don't know what real growth is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, you've been here for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u52	If some people in this country ever come to love their homeland, the first concern about the development of this country will be to the small and medium-sized ones and the help that should be given to them, almost exclusively and not to all others who work negatively for this nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The next day after the Eurogroup, and after the formal completion of the memoranda, there will be nothing but the continuation and escalation of anti-grassroots policy, as recorded in the Eurogroup decision and, of course, the success of the hugely bloody primary surpluses by 2060. The next day is marked by the acceleration of privatization and the divestment of public property, by the acceleration of commercialisation of health, education, welfare. Above all, it is targeted, above all, by the submission of the labour market to the needs of shielding the competitiveness of capitalist enterprises, which leads to further liberalisation of the labour market and the creation of such mechanisms that produce a very cheap workforce, without structured labour, insurance and trade union rights, consumable, based on the requirements and needs of companies. And the sustainability of the state debt is based on these monstrous primary surpluses that expand into the biennial ones. So the next day is marked by the Memorandum of Memorandum, which will further hit the living standard of the popular strata. So the next day is not going to lead to any relief for the working class and the people. Development will have as the main feature the class and unjust character. So the workers will continue to bleed now for capitalist profitability. But that's not all. It is precisely in these decisions that there will be no relief in terms of tax raid and tax incursions towards workers, the self-employed, the farmers, because precisely this choice of tax raid and tax incursion is for urban parties - SYRIZA, ND, PASOK and the other smaller parties - one-way to the logic of promoting tax competition in favour of business groups, which leads to new scandalous and provocative tax advantages and tax exemptions for business groups. It is a one-way because it has at its core the logic of reducing the so-called 'non-wage costs' and overthrowing the social nature of the insurance into capitalisation, the privatisation of insurance. That is why there will be a tax raid and a raid in progress over time. Besides, it is no coincidence that the total debt of 90% of those owed to tax and insurance funds amounts to 10% of total debt and the remaining 10% owes the remaining 90%. That means that the workers, the people, the pensioners, the professionals, the self-employed owe them taxes and insurance, precisely because they are unable to pay, while the business groups owe huge sums both tax and insurance funds, and this is a conscious choice in trying to shield competitiveness. The second point we would like to raise is that the management of red loans not only from the previous ones, but also from the current government, is not for the relief of the highly indebted people's households, but - as all the ministers have declared - it is for the resolution of the bank's portfolio, for the protection of the financial system. That is exactly what all their laws and provisions are based on the extrajudicial compromise, as well as on the case of the Katseli Act and the changes made. On the other hand, there is an overall proposal from the JRC, which speaks not only of a 'cut' of interest and interest, but also of the capital itself, both in terms of red loans and in terms of debts to taxes and banks. At the same time, it talks about protecting the first home from auctioning, protecting professionals and farmers from their ability to participate in the economic process and to be able to grow and produce. On the other hand, the government is "driving" and capital up to 50% a year to the insurance funds and taxes on business groups. It does not "saving" the only interest and perpetrators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary, for the self-employed, professionals, craftsmen, traders and farmers, it extends with the various plans - the percentage, the hundred and twenty instalments - on the substance of their debts, essentially subscribing to their future. Thus, both on the issue of the management of red loans and on the issue of the obligation and the current government adopts the policy of 'two measures and two weights': business-friendly and large capital, hostile to the workers, the self-employed and the public. So the way out for the people is not going to come within the framework of a policy, which leads them to the deterioration of their position, but rather through the rejection of this policy, the overall break and overthrow with the causes of the problems, which are not other than the unfair and exploiting capitalist system itself, signalling the real enemy, capitalist profit, monopolistic groups, radically changing the correlations of power to their benefit. In this context they can really fight the escalation of anti-population policy, find relief and at the same time pursue more overall overthrows that will focus on satisfying people's needs rather than capitalist profitability.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Because there was a lot of talk about what happened in Zappeion, I would like to remind you of the following. I would consider it reasonable for me to hear from the Opposition that Juncker, Moscovisi, Stendo, McCrone, the Prime Minister of France, Regling himself, even Symple, had some interest, anyway, to say good words why they did not want to admit, let's say, the bad arrangements they had made in the Greek economy. Let me take it. But here, there is a difference. Markets rarely listen to politicians. Sometimes they hear them. Where are the bilateral comments from BLOOMBERG, FINANCIAL'TIMES, WALL STREET JOURNAL, GUARDIAN, LE MONDE, LE FIGARO, REPUBLICA, CORRIERE DELLA SERA, LA STAMPA and another thirty? Today "MODY'S" - today, not yesterday - wrote bi-corruption comments about what happened in Greece. You know, the ear of the markets is ready. They have no reason to mock what happened in Greece. But I want to speak with arguments, because I think it is worth it. The pillow was around 18.5 billion. That's how much we had budgeted it. He went to 24.1 billion. I want to believe that you, too, think that's good. I still want to remind you that Soltch and the Germans were asking for three to five years of prolongation. The prolongation went to ten years. I wish he'd go to twenty or thirty. Well, it's better than Germany wanted. And another ten years of grace. And we'll still have four billion a year for a long time. We can use them. We'll see how. Social policy, social state and the concept. And for those who do not remember to say that the International Monetary Fund, because it had doubts as to whether we would get the 35% surplus, set pension cut and tax-free as a counterweight. This surplus has been caught three times. Those who were "unfaithful Thomas" saw that this Greek government did not send the money to neither offshore nor economic paradises, nor should any hundreds of families be taken care of. What does that mean? The ministers do well and do not talk about taxfree, nor about the reduction of pensions, which are indeed adopted measures. But I mean it. What is the logic, the moment the IMF has almost a decorative role from now on and will it be repaid very quickly? I could say a lot more. It's not a bad thing to criticize. Zeroing, however, wants 'bold', is a good thing, because I think you're against the world... is there a country that didn't see a positive view of what happened in our country? I'm closing the parentheses. That's all about Zappeion. We'll come to the point. First of all, it is one of the few times that the role of Officerial Opposition - and I am referring to today - is positive. I think he's positive. Is the issue of red loans any more? Sure. Does the opinion of many Members of Parliament need to be heard? I have listened with great respect to many good proposals. And I was pleased that the Minister himself admitted it, with one difference: ninety-eight billion red loans in 2014, 66 billion now, a lot. Is that a problem? Existent. I was recently reading an article that exists in a market constitution. You have forgotten whether - I am not saying that it is the government, this government, the former ones - but the cards were coming from the banks, what the seas, what the festivities were. I had friends, broke out, who had ten and fifteen, I know, cards. For Christ's sake! Who was responsible then for this reality? Who didn't do anything? Furthermore, because I have heard Mr Dendia, whom I respect: 'audiocritical', 'I'm sorry. I'll agree with him with one difference. Is it a convincing argument that all the destruction of the country and bankruptcy is a matter of Varoufakis for all six months? I admit it's wrong. I say: is this argument convincing? The fact that unemployment at some point came to 28% and a bad million come down, what does it mean? You say that the market is being played in five fingers, that you know it well, how you missed it, and that it reached 28%, when the average of the European Union is 6%, 7%, at the most 8%? When the GDP of 120% went 180% and automatically all Greeks lost their half-income, how did you miss that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. What do I mean? Big talk is easy. This government also made mistakes - I have no objections - and excesses said in 2015. And mistakes don't just make dictators, you know. One thing, however, does not have the right to do: to allow political staff to put their hands on honey again. I would like to remind you here of one example, and, if I have a little time to say a little bit more, I would like to say that on a matter of moral order - there was no misgiving - the Prime Minister broke out two ministers and passed a shocking message: no one whose hand in honey from political staff. To be clear! All the mistakes may be made, this must never be repeated. I would like to say this, that the legal framework for freelance professionals provides for debt write-offs and repayments in long-term instalments and a minimum of monthly repayments of EUR 40 - I am talking about debt regulation for freelance professionals - a housing loan subsidy from the State, protection of bank accounts against seizures, i.e. the inconvenience. The same legal framework for small businesses, which for the first time deal with 20,000 debts, not 50 000 debts and above: debt write-offs, repayments in long-term instalments, again a minimum amount of EUR 40, a housing loan subsidy by the State, if it is the regulation of the Katseli Act, protection of bank accounts against seizures, and I could say more. I can see here that there are seven specific commitments for freelance professionals. I don't disagree with you at all. In fact, there was a difficulty. Indeed, the banks were blocking, and the Minister told you. I'm with you. So we have to do something to unblock it. I've heard Mr. Bukkoro with great respect. He's right. A lot of what he said is right. So, at the moment, I would like to believe that, quite credible and very active - so that the free professionals at 99% can regulate their debts, the poor payers can also find and pay red loans - because it was indeed a Memorandum commitment, we did not hide this thing, for God's sake - to reach or, if possible, zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u57	If you want, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you'll be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm packing up, and I'm done. I say this: Today's debate, in my opinion, has been constructive. I am pleased to hear a real problem and opinions and how to see it and I think that this is how Parliament should work in the future. Yes, in criticism of existing issues, not of any existence, not of incredible things, which one seeks to find and does not just look at by opposition. I really welcome today's debate and consider it to be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr. Psarianos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u60	Because Mr. Papachristopoulos said before about the finger on honey, I think there's a general opinion, a public opinion. And I personally and various other people have heard a number of bees buzzing around hands that are muddled in honey to the elbow and not in melted fingers. In this respect, it is undeniable that a basic problem, perhaps the main problem in the country, is pluralism, malpractice and bureaucracy. And the current government, who has been professing to correct basic things that have troubled the political system for decades, has been unable to do absolutely nothing about them. New laws we are making, bad laws we are voting on, and we are not already implementing these laws, and we have an endless bureaucracy that every man who listens to us and who has a business - because nine out of ten has had a business, the tenth can have rescued it, and I do not know if he will be able at the end to rescue it - we will have to find two - three lawyers, one - two notarialists, doctors, electricians, one plumbers, a couple of tens of jobs, which are coordinated in order to be able to resolve the differences or save his business. When we have about twenty-eight thousand initial requests for an extrajudicial compromise, of which four and a half meet the eligibility criteria and have finally completed twenty - not thousands of twenty-square - then something is wrong. It must be realised at some point that the parameter of time and the speed of completion of a process is as important as the process is probably even more important. The attitude of legislating to build a process, regardless of whether it is possible to implement, has no point in pursuing it. That is how we have come about with the administration of justice that is late for over ten years, with public competitions that last for five or more years, with the award of pensions after two or more years of the application for retirement. So now an out-of-court compromise has been set up so bureaucratic that it will eventually become incomplete, as will the other law that has entered into the committees today on equivalent transport, which will have to end up with a magical algorithm, which may be able to make a grant of a ferry ticket, instead of having solved this problem for many years and from previous governments. But that was the government, which would solve these problems that were chronicling with interests, with ribbons, with balances, etc. That would solve them very quickly in the first semester. The extrajudicial mechanism was passed by Law 4469 in April 2017, which we supported in the Potami, because it was in the right direction. It was a small step in the right direction. But, so far, we have seen almost no final, final positive result from the application of this law, which was rather non-implementable or which was the application of a polynomial labyrinth, which had no real way out, with results. I told you the numbers or a distinctive number. We had supported this plan, we had expressed concerns and reservations about the procedures envisaged. Some of these reservations and our concerns were the risk that the process of proving timely and bureaucratic - we achieved it - would be a low pay for ombudsmen to act as an incentive - and this was done - when and how to operate an electronic platform, which is still not specific. Unfortunately, concerns and reservations are constantly confirmed in practice. The need to improve the functioning of the extrajudicial mechanism was the subject of the fourth assessment, and if we were not pushed and pushed by the "collapsers", "loans", "those who drink the blood" etc., these people we abused in the past five to six years, if they weren't pushing us to find a way to solve these problems, we wouldn't be discussing this either now. There is no reason to describe the procedures or to list other figures from the activation of the platform to date. All of these data are detailed and, indeed, are statistics that are several months ago. I'll put it in the Minutes so I don't get bored with evidence, numbers, how it happened and how it didn't happen. Proof of these figures and all the rest that the course of out-of-court settlement is obsolete for hundreds, for thousands of businesses, who while meeting the criteria laid down by the law to be chosen, go hand in hand with different fields of the platform, collecting supporting documents, card packages, to testify them in the socialist paper, which cannot find any end and give solutions to very specific problems. This process is constantly proving to be time-consuming and painful. The most important problems found are the strict criteria for integration, the large volume of required bureaucratic procedures and the reluctance of the banking system to cooperate effectively. As the Vice-President has rightly said, we cannot all charge them in the state. They are both banks and agencies and various other factors. If, however, the state does not coordinate these things, let the agencies stay on their own, banks and all other organisations involved. Some improvements have, of course, recently been made both from the banks and from the government. The banks in an attempt to remove the strong distrust that exists towards their side and the strong criticism they receive from both the government and the world - from the opposition government, because things are now somewhat normalized in our relationship - where they did not support procedures, are now trying to find ways and solutions. The government has also included - and this is positive - in the recently adopted law with the prerequisites, certain arrangements that seek to solve problems in the extrajudicial procedure. Of course, the trophies and boxes, which obligate us to do these, and the previous governments, the Memorandum and the Antimonetary Government of SYRIZANEL, which is more memorandum than all. Thank God there's something else on the outside and they're swinging the finger and they're pulling a jacket. In fact, some right people who impose or suggest, avoid them to serve a client state of interests, "we do the duck" and apply something of our own here as memorandum prerequisites, something of our own tricks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u62	I'll be done in a minute. They shall elapse after the vote on the multi-project of two CSTDs, which will regulate the issues of completeness of the application or the negotiation process and one on the definition of the step-by-step remuneration of the coordinator. Is there a timeline for extradition, since the world is literally suffocating? That's a question. In the year in which L.4969, adopted in April 2017, has all the regulatory acts necessary for the implementation of the law been adopted? That is a second question. A third question is: why did the government choose to discuss the specific topical question of the New Democracy now while it has been tabled since March? Because the fourth assessment is now being closed and we must now close up and run all the loose ends. That is why, while so far we have had a weekly schedule for Parliament's operation, we now have no programming two or three days ago. We have a daily schedule. In the morning we find out what we're going to talk about or what we're going to vote on tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Fisherman, please complete. We're almost ten minutes away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u64	I'm ending with a phrase. We consider the extrajudicial mechanism necessary, which must function effectively and not remain in theory and papers, to save businesses, people and families, so that the market can function and reduce taxes and levies, so as to open up the path to investment and business incentives. In conclusion, I must remind you that the Greek who still has the luck of working has to work 198 days a year to pay taxes and contributions. The employee who is lucky to work, works 198 days a year from 365 to pay for something "customers" in the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Psariano. Mr Saridis has the floor, the last of the parliamentary representatives. Immediately after the seconds begin. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this timely question of the Members of the New Democracy would make sense if it were actually discussed in the time when it was tabled. The government is responsible for this delay. We cannot understand the intentions of the government, nor can we interpret them. In my preparation for today's debate on the question of the current question of the Members of the Staff Regulations of Officials on the undeniable failure of the extrajudicial compromise mechanism, I was in a very difficult position, not because it was difficult to support my view that the legislative initiative of the predecessor of Mr Drasakis, the then Minister of Development, Mr Papadimitriou, should not be taken into account, nor because I was unable to understand the importance of the improvements you have brought to the recent vote, which is supposed to be a memorandum from the government. My difficulty now lies, ladies and gentlemen: I feel that we are all out of the question precisely because we have not discussed the topical question in the time that should have been discussed. What I cared about and I care about, what I care about, what I understand, and the Central Association, as an obligation, responsibility, but also a right, was how to find and formulate how, how, in what way, we will legislate what we have to do, how we will finally make the law of the state the right, the law and the sustainable one, so that we can take out the loop on the neck of the Greeks. So I do not find any sense in starting to tell you one - one of what you said to me, protesting and in a strict sense, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when I asked you to explain to us how you had come up with the assessment that your legislative initiative would benefit, be cleared and a solution would be found and four hundred thousand businesses would be released. That is what you were telling us at the time, the Minister for Development, Mr Papadimitriou, claimed. Maybe the man believed it and didn't lie. I have no reason to question either his honesty or his honesty. From his general behaviour and his attitude, I might think that he did believe that and that this law would help four hundred thousand businesses and citizens and obviously also their families. Did you expelle him, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because he fell out on this crucial issue? Oh, no. You expelled him just to save the moral advantage of the "first time left". That was why and not his refreshing legislation. I wonder whether you would have pushed him out of the government today for the failure of this law, for the extrajudicial compromise, or whether he would have been among us without any other rights. What is most important, whether Mr Papadimitriou was getting a benefit or failing a piece of legislation, that he fell out of his assessments, in his predictions? Has someone finally assumed responsibility for this failure, or are you just continuing his policy as if nothing had happened? Did someone apologise for what was unfortunate and rude you said during those days that were being discussed here in this Chamber, this law, to all those who had reacted strongly and tried to explain to you that what was going to be implemented was intact, inexperienced and unsustainable? Of course not. The word 'excuse', ladies and gentlemen, you do not know it, nor do the previous ones, who are responsible for our present mess, those who have brought the country into this situation, those who have led four hundred thousand businesses to what Mr Papadimitriou was trying to save and who are still still having the dorm in their necks. At the moment, all these businesses need, ladies and gentlemen, the help of the Greek Parliament, so that they can hope, so that they can see a tomorrow other than the present one that lives today and pray from their side to light us in here, and to find out how to legislate something that will really help them to stand on their feet. Ladies and gentlemen, while you have asked this question, to be honest, you are responsible for the fact that these two hundred and fifty thousand businesses have been found with the nipple in the neck and the answers you give - there is not someone here right now - you are responsible for remaining this loop in its seat. Both of us, in the opinion of the Central Association, failed with you and the rest of us, the whole of the Greek Parliament. Because, you know, in the eyes of the Greek people, it does not stand out if a minister, a government, a military opposition, but in the eyes of the Greek people, has failed the entire political staff of the country. He initially failed to protect them and continues to fail to help them. You are looking to find a thousand strategic bad payers and you are actually leaving helpless, in obscurity, 100 000 small and medium-sized enterprises. You're hurting, gentlemen of the government, development in this country. So we have nothing to offer in this debate, and I am not one of those who like to say that 'I said it, but you didn't listen to me' or 'the Centroon Union', but you didn't listen to it'. Hence the difficulty in the present position. I don't want to add anything. I have nothing more hopeful to say and I cannot be optimistic about this picture which you are presenting in the Greek Parliament in today's House. We're in a dead end. If we do not fundamentally review the way we face entrepreneurship in our country, we are not going to see growth either with binoculars. We do not want, Mr. Minister, your apologies. We do not want to see whether you have understood the extent of your responsibility, the size of the Greek Government's responsibility, to give all these businesses a chance. We want to see your reaction, how this reaction will be interpreted in a new supplementary law, this law. We cannot talk about growth on the atrocities and ruins of small and medium-sized enterprises. We cannot have growth, ladies and gentlemen, without small and medium-sized enterprises. An entire government for the Greek public debt took an extension of a hundred years. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have this time. They don't have that much time and so you can't, ladies and gentlemen of the government, celebrate when perhaps five million or more Greeks are crying when you celebrate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. We have completed with the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. Let's start with the dentures. Mr. Buras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u68	As time is limited, Mr Vice-President, I will not spend any time at all. After all, our Parliamentary representative has answered you in the most good way on the general issues you raised at the outset and on the responsibilities which we really have our responsibilities over a period of time, but we also have great advantages, Mr Vice-President, as an exception, because this fact has a positive balance in the course of many years. I'll check to answer the time. The President will also show a tolerance, since I am the first questioner. Today we are asking you, Mr Vice-President, without meaning that we are putting responsibilities on you. But you are obliged to accept them, because the government you represent collectively refers to. We're talking about the extrajudicial compromise, as it was late in the day. And I must tell you that it is to your credit that since the first moment you have taken over this ministry you have accepted here in a timely question from Mrs Bakoyannis that "actually there are malfunctions and I get from what you say and I will look to correct them". And again today you said that things were done in the past few days, they're not capable of us, they're very few, many times they don't fix anything, but here you're talking about them and doing what we can. The Ministry's previous political leadership really didn't listen and speak. And I sincerely am astonished by Mrs Jackson for remembering her as rapporteur for this bill how passion she had at the same time as today - as if she now began her political career - in defending certain things that the Vice-President himself confessed. Mrs Jackson, I do not think anyone should be happy about a law passed on 3 May and corrected again on 19 May and now to be corrected again. Of course, we're evaluating him from the results. What are the results? Don't mention it, all my colleagues have mentioned it. I will stand at 'forty-eight in April' and 'fifty-two cases', that is, one or a half cases per month. Is that the pace at which we solve this major issue that is for the economy? And then - invoking the testimony of Mrs Jackson who was present and who was defended - we said, "You said that in the bill..." - because the Minister replied - 'You cannot change a word, because that is how the troika approved it. We hope that this will not be the case." If such words can be spoken! That was said, Mr Vice-President, then. And I want to tell you in the rest of the time that it remains that the last corrections on substance do not solve much but little. I will table your joint ministerial decision on the Minutes with the Minister of Finance setting out the supporting documents, which are ultimately not submitted at the outset, but are sought and documented, Mr Vice-President. In fact, I fear that there may also be confusion as to whether the agency is looking for them or whether the person concerned is going to run. I hope I'm honest with you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you said for a hundred and twenty-five thousand or more, I will testify to the decision of the Undersecretary of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou, which you know what he says? For debtors with a total debt of more than EUR 125,000, the State only proposes solutions if the debtor is provided with an assessment of viability and a restructuring plan by an independent expert within the meaning of Article, etc. And then he says how he gets paid. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You can understand that this feeds bureaucracy and makes it difficult to resolve issues. Because people who are "closed on the rope" by the debts are obliged to do with uncertainty again a process that they do not know where to lead and spend if they have. And I conclude, Mr President, because I promised to say five things that the New Democracy is not only critical, but also has proposals. I said that very soon we will also table a proposal for a law on the extrajudicial compromise. In particular, Mr Vice-President, the New Democracy proposes: firstly, a reduction in supporting documents and certificates in order to bring the parties concerned to the law quickly and without cost, I stress this. Secondly, a concentration of all the liabilities of each undertaking or freelance professional to banks, insurance funds, public authorities, etc. the existing electronic platform. The highest creditor in value would have undertaken the configuration of the settlement with instalments or any haircut. The procedure after voting, and if it was voted on by a majority of creditors, would have been the case without having to go to court and waste time and money, but also create uncertainty with the debtor. Thirdly, for medium-sized and large enterprises, the New Democracy had designed a rapid judicial procedure whereby each company would have applied for regulation in the competent court, to which it would have agreed 50.1% of the creditors on the basis of the value of the claims. The court would ratify by means of a regulation decision, which would be binding on other creditors, including public and insurance funds. In this way of regulation, we had predicted that companies would first have to guarantee their debts to workers. We stress that it must be the workers first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Bourra, you've already reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, it is not the same procedure for all companies regardless of size and debt, so as to help small and medium-sized enterprises. And fifthly, in addition to this, we have also proposed a comprehensive reform of the bankruptcy procedure, which gives a second chance to those who have suffered the consequences. The government, however, Mr Vice-President, with what it has done lately - I will not completely zero it, but we have a lot of reservations, and I personally am dealing with this issue in my party as the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Development - will continue to cause the damage to the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u71	Come on, Mr. Bourra, we've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u72	That is, when forty-eight in three months becomes fifty-two, nothing goes wrong. No viable solution is given to companies struggling to stand up. Another opportunity is being lost for efficient management of red loans. There is no separation of loans, private loans, debts from other causes, etc. This is how other red loans are created. There is no provision for companies that have closed down because of a crisis, without going bankrupt. Most of the judicial decisions - you know, Minister - are rejected, so property is lost, you said, 'no house in the hands of a banker'. And a lot of other things, but I'll respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Bourra, please, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u74	Already overtaken him. I thank the President very much for his tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u75	You doubled him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u76	And I believe, Minister, in conclusion, that today's debate we have provoked is very positive for the Greek economy and for Greek citizens and especially for the small and medium-sized businessmen, who are the backbone and the support of the Greek economy. I believe that you will shortly be giving us further information, whether here or in the committee, on this big issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. We said to be tolerant for a couple of minutes, but you doubled the time, Mr. Bourras. You spoke ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u78	The torrent can't be stopped!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u79	Come on, Mr Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, some elements to come back to reality: the fact that you are criticising the previous governments is more self-criticizing than trying to blame the previous governments. This is characteristic because especially your parliamentary representative today, the rapporteur in the bill at the time, but also almost half your group of the PASOK governments, were members of the PASOK governments, were in the Giorgos Papandreou Parliamentary Groups and his governments. Secondly, you once again blame the previous ones. I would remind you, Mr Vice-President, that when you took over the country's governance in January 2015, the overdue public debts were at 74 billion. Currently privates’ overdue debts to the public exceed EUR 100 billion. So 25% of private debt has been created on your own days. 25% of private debt is yours, your government, Vice President. However, I would also like to refer to a very interesting survey announced today by the Centre for Liberal Studies. He studies which day of year Greek citizens acquire their tax freedom. It was announced, therefore, that in 2018 the day of tax freedom, i.e. the day until which the Greeks are working to pay contributions and taxes is July 18th. In 2014, the corresponding day was 22 June. So you added an additional month for which Greeks work to pay insurance contributions and taxes. Very quickly, you accused us, Mr Vice-President, that we have not tabled proposals. Of course, I would remind you that you are the government and we are the Qualified Opposition. I'll be more specific. The data on the liabilities of each undertaking to the banks, the public and the insurance funds must be collected on the existing electronic platform. The highest creditor in liability value will undertake the formulation of a specific arrangement with instalments and any debt haircut. The proposal will be put to the vote and, if it is adopted by a majority of creditors, it will apply without the need for ratification in court. In this way, a faster and less bureaucratic process is achieved as it takes a few weeks to shape the regulation proposal and to carry out the vote. A similar arrangement is recommended for medium-sized and large enterprises. The company must submit a request for regulation to the competent court, to which it must have agreed at least 50.1% of the creditors on the basis of the total value of the claims. Where all the necessary conditions are met, the court shall adopt a regulation decision binding on all creditors, including public and insurance funds. There are other solutions, Mr Vice-President, such as the overall reform of the bankruptcy procedure in a direction that will give a real second chance to those who have kneeled from the burdens in the years of the crisis. So our proposals have been submitted on a regular basis. The fact that you haven't taken advantage of them yet concerns us. We hope, however, that we will apply them very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u82	Mr Vice-President, indeed the issue of red loans, as you have pointed out, was a real one, there was also nowadays. And, of course, I know that very well, as I told you in the prototype, because we were dealing with it because then I was a member of the Government's Private Debt Management Board. But this has grown over your days and this is mainly due not only to the capital controls, but also to the wanderings and searches of Mr Varoufakis. Now the extrajudicial compromise, of course, was finally considered negative by the market itself. I would remind you that, when the banks saw where they were going to get involved, they preferred where they could avoid the process and regulate, if possible, bilaterally their loans with the debtors. This bill, which has become a state law with the law that you have voted on, is a confession of failure. You came and proceeded to dozens of interventions in the law, since you could no longer look at the whole situation. However, I have to say that some of the arrangements are positive, and that cannot be denied, such as, for example, the changes in the remuneration of coordinators who had no incentive to deal with the cases quickly, and the abolition of the obligation to post documents, especially those who were easily sought by Taxis and the insurance funds. But I am afraid it is too late, because you have not strengthened infrastructure and human resources, human resources. Furthermore, the process remains bureaucratic, the application incomprehensible and the way in which the public responds because of a lack of staff, as we have said, will continue to be an impediment to the successful implementation of the measure. For these reasons - I said before - unfortunately, I also think that with the new version, despite the amendments, it will be unsuccessful and will not bring the results that we would all expect. Now, with regard to what you said, we have no proposals, I mentioned them briefly. I analyzed them a little in my prototype and mentioned them a little while ago by Mr Bourras. I quote them in summary categorically categorizing them. So there should be, as I told you, categorisation of the citizens of debtors, categorisation of business and categorisation of debts. In particular, debts to the State, debts to the banks, debts from a business or consumer loan. Above all, Mr Vice-President, we need to strengthen infrastructure and human resources to get results.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the Minister's replies have convinced some people that the government is aware of the scale of the problem. It turns out that the Government does not have a proposal that represents a substantial and rational response to the private debt problem. When you legislated, you could have had the mediation that would have been linked to a binding framework and content, in particular when the debtor had a large part of his debtors in a single creditor and the agreement between them, resulting from mediation, was submitted by a simple procedure to the court secretariat and not to follow this timely judicial procedure. The New Democracy has proposals and proves it. For us, the sovereign and primary concern is that there should be substantial out-of-court settlement of debts for small and medium-sized businessmen, free professionals and farmers. For larger businesses our direction is a rapid and flexible process that will not be delayed. We believe that on the electronic platform the data on the debts of each business or free trader should be collected to the banks, the public and the insurance funds. The one who will be the largest creditor, namely the one with the greatest debts, will undertake to formulate a specific adjustment proposal that includes not only instalments, but also write off debts. This proposal will be put to the vote and if the majority of creditors adopt it, it will apply without a court ruling. In this way we have the participation of all creditors in the process, but above all we have results. This is the definition of an extrajudicial compromise, which means rapid, flexible and effective procedures, because the involvement with legal proceedings does not cover these prerequisites. As far as large businesses are concerned, we believe that every undertaking of this size should apply for the regulation of its debts to the competent court, but which should assemble 50.1% of the creditors' assent. If all the conditions are met, the court will immediately issue the decision to settle the company’s liabilities. This decision will be binding on all creditors whether they are public or private. The company, whose debts will be governed by this procedure, will undertake to repay its employees. I hope that the Minister in his denture will have a better response to these proposals of the New Democracy, which are different from the triumphed 'the troika or the institutions are not leaving us', especially now that you are supposed to have released the country from suffocating control, as you say. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has not understood the size of the problem in private debt. This is a problem that is not dealt with with ties, even when it is turned into a dolphin in the neck of thousands of people. This is a problem that requires a plan, but also a serious and strong government and that is only the next New Democracy government. Your time, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not just over. You yourself have finished in the consciousness of the citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. Mr. Bukkoros has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr Vice-President, I would honestly expect you to escape from the mistress of other ministers. What you told us today was an excuse, they could tell new ministers. We are constantly listening to them on the occasion of other discussions on other bills. But you have been one of the most serious members, even short-lived governments of cooperation in the past, and I want to believe that you are also one of the most serious members of today's government or rather believe it. But discovering enemies in the banking system to which I have referred and in the previous governments does not offer anything in today's debate. And do you know what our notified difference is, Mr. Vice President? That the previous government had an Opposition in the bars to promise to offer housing loans, business loans, insurance funds, tolls, HIS. You promised everything. The natural consequence of these promises was that the world would not come to pay. Today you have an opposition that makes proposals to you, Mr Vice-President. He's telling you, simplify the system, reduce the documents. Give the debtor the opportunity to regulate his or her debts either to the banking system or to the public. Make it more flexible. Aren't these proposals? They are proposals and indeed they are applicable. You told us 'you created the problem'. And how did the loans go? With what maritime loan, Mr. Vice President, has your Government dealt with the last three and a half years? Only with the loans of the parties that are 400 million in total. It's not a trivial amount, but why did that happen? To work your propaganda mechanism. Did you do some research to see if sea-shore loans have been granted - which I tell you has been given - without practical guarantees? What are the results? Just the same as the control of foreign emblems. Zero. This is our difference, that we are making a fruitful and productive opposition, and you are making - not you personally, the members of your party - an outrageous opposition and that has a print on the economy. Didn't you hear Mr. Dendia? Ten billion has increased red loans to the banking system over your days. Didn't you hear Mr. Dimas? Twenty-five billion Greeks' debts increased to the public over your days. Total, thirty-five billion. In other words, if you were twenty years ruled by the New Democracy in Transmigration, Mr Vice-President, where would those figures have arrived, let us see the proportionate responsibilities? Because you are no longer a new government. You've been running the place for three and a half years. Of course, all these red loans increased after the global economic crisis in 2008. Until then loans were granted, and some maritime loans were also granted, because the system has always had weaknesses. We all accept it. However, non-performing loans were close to the European average. In the end, we are making proposals, and you as a opposition, are making promises and as a government you are blaming your political opponents. That's it, schematically. Finally, for the Zappeli, Minister, I will tell you a word. I am very surprised that you are rejoicing and celebrating the praises of economic killers, as you described them as opposition. I hope you will accept what the New Democracy proposes for the out-of-court settlement mechanism, because, Mr Vice-President, you know very well that if you listened to the fertile criticism of the New Democracy, of counter-population and better and easier to govern, but that is not the case. So, you make other choices that look like your choices when you were opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for two minutes, but because it's a little time, you'll have a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, as the debate has shown, we are talking today about a real problem and also of vital importance. So trying to find refuge in the past's responsibilities is no use. I have heard - and you have asked - about the banks' responsibilities and whether they have responsibilities. Of course, there are responsibilities in the banks. Of course, the loans were given very easily, but at the time when you were talking about banks' responsibility for loans, you are forgetting your responsibilities, when you were talking about seismicism, about loan gifts, which you were urging people not to go to pay, at a time when some might not have been able to pay, but some could. Today, no one can. Today, then, it is necessary to regulate this sort of arrangement. You also told us that we made strict criticisms of you. Yeah, we made a strict criticism, 'cause you guys put the bar too high. Your predecessor, when this bill was passed, made promises of promises. If you want, it has been linked to biblicals, that it will also give a solution today, after so long, seeing the effectiveness of the law, we come and ask for responsibilities. Why are we doing this? Unfortunately - I repeat, unfortunately - everything that we are currently living in the implementation of the law are things which were spoken at the time in the debate and not just from the New Democracy, they simply did not hear. There was, therefore, a great deal of urgency on the part of the then Minister, who did not agree to cooperate with the opposition parties, and today we have this result. Today, I imagine we all agree on the need for a new intervention. But if this intervention, Mr Vice-President, does not take place with another policy, by another procedure, you know, it makes no sense to expect different results, because, as you know, it is a very big mistake to expect different results by conducting the same policy. You see that on the New Democracy side - and this is what I shall close, Mr President - there are voices that are documented which recognise the problem. We don't make promises to everyone. We are involved, because we want to solve the problem and we need the initiative to take it. The initiative and responsibility belong to you, but you have a opposition that wants to support the private sector, the private initiative, the real economy, for which I have spoken to you in my philosophy and to escape from these fine situations, from the celebrations that, in any case, you have learned now in Zappeion and I imagine every three and a little you will go to Zappeion. I would remind you, however, that as many times as important agreements have been signed in Zappeion as are the few, many were outside. The other day, you were only a few and they were inside and out there was the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Mr. Tendia, do you want to be seconded now? Then the Minister will also follow, so that the Minister closes the question, and if necessary you have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u90	I have no issue, let the Minister speak, unless you do, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u92	With regard to some comments that concern me personally, thank you, but the government is united and responsibility is collective both in the Constitution and in practice. I would like to say that the previous Minister must be credited for opening the way. The previous Minister brought the law that didn't exist. The previous Minister brought the law we are discussing today. And I do not want to remind you of what was said then, beyond what you are saying today. It was said that the platform would never work, that this law would never work, that signs and monsters would happen. This platform is an achievement. But I do not want to talk about these, because there are other things I want to raise. I would like to say that in my view - I do not know if I am misinterpreting the debate - the debate highlights some common places. We all agree that private debt is one of the most painful legacy of the crisis. I am referring to the banks, the funds, the taxes etc. A very large number of our fellow citizens are trapped in their debts. So one of the priorities is - it was before, but much more than right now - addressing this problem. The solution is, of course, not just in regulation. The regulation could be said to be the third solution. The first solution is the recovery of the economy, increasing employment, enabling citizens to serve their loans. From there on, we come to those who have made this impossible change of circumstances or other factors. The second point on which I think there is a shared consensus is that an integrated system is needed to deal with the problem. I am using the concept of 'polluterism', which Mr Denktash said. It is serious that this should be understood. If we regulate only bank loans - this has happened in the past - and the debtor owes both the public or the funds, we have done nothing. We didn't release him. Or vice versa. We must therefore insist on this holistic approach. I think the third common assumption is that in order for this system to function, everyone is required to cooperate. I don't incriminate banks with conspiracy theories. But I see you got it back. I told you a reality that, in order for the system to function, banks and the Ministry of Finance - I mean the independent authority - and the respective ECA and other creditors, who are present and so on. This partnership and cooperation do not automatically result. It's not just a question of us saying it. It must be facilitated by the law and, if necessary, blackmail, in the good sense of the term. We have to push for it. I have read to you some specific excerpts about how many times and within banks alone, there are such problems and difficulties. You can ignore them for political reasons, for short term reasons, but I think it's the reality. Finally, you made suggestions. Many of your proposals are already in the law. But I don't want to say you don't know the law, etc. You have probably not followed all the changes that have been made. Because changing the law is not always something bad or measurable. Especially in new institutions, you create the institution, you try it in practice and then you amend what you see is not working. But I want to say what I really believe. The Ministry of Development in particular, and because of its nature, is an open ministry. I've said it here before. I believe it. It's a ministry that needs to solve problems. That's why there is. Therefore, the proposals which have been heard today will be studied by the Special Secretariat of the Private Debt Management and those of them which can actually be implemented and which can actually lead to a positive outcome, I and the Government have no objection to adopting them. There has also been a criticism, which I would like to refer to in some respects. It's none of my business to incriminate the previous people. But I am concerned about the problem, where it came from, how it evolved, where we are today and where we are going. So in that sense, do not react like that. There are responsibilities in the way banks used to operate in the past. That is why we are now talking about a new way of operating the banking system. There are responsibilities for both the first and second Memorandums. Foreigners call it. The factors of Europe and IMF have said that they charged the country with super-austerity that it did not need, were not necessary and created all these vicious circles. Secondly, you're talking about SYRIZA's promises of seismicity, etc. Of course we had the policy and we still believe that there is a need for more general regulation of the debt, not just Greek but European debt. If you look at the evidence, Greece, of course, has the greatest debt. But there are other countries with a very high debt. In any case, if there is a new crisis - or without a new crisis - I am not sure that the debt of all countries will be useful. We did not achieve this because with the PSI there was an interdependence between countries, that is, our lenders are also indebted. For example, all the states have become our lenders because they have taken part in our debt, but at the same time many of the same countries, such as Italy, Portugal and others, also have a debt. So there can only be a radical solution together. We have reached a solution that allows us to go out on the markets, to self-determination and to be independent in this respect, recognising that there are still problems and issues to be resolved in the future. But we have acquired this famous 'trackway' of fifteen years in which we can move. In any case, this law provides for fines and debts, even capital itself, under certain conditions provided for by the law in Articles 9 and 15. Secondly, you said that there was a judicial involvement and that many cases went to court etc. The extrajudicial mechanism is out-of-court. Of the fifty-two companies, only one appealed to the court because the right to appeal is voluntary. So we are talking about an out-of-court settlement and that is what we want to improve and develop. You spoke of an irresponsible account. But that's what this is all about. We have ensured that any seizure procedure and any auction procedure are stopped once the application is made. Referred back to the general framework, supervision and so on. There is nothing outside Regulation 472 of the European Union. We're the only country we have to restructure. That is why we have entered the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it is as there is supervision in other countries which have entered a programme, such as Portugal, etc. You again talked about beastly surpluses, when the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which talks about 4% surpluses, is known. We have also proposed a lower level of 2.5% plus a unit which could be set for development purposes, which, at least at the moment, has not been accepted. So let us look forward to taking advantage of the opportunities created and dealing with the problems that exist. When we are saying that we have achieved the fifteen years, a time that we can manage with a greater degree of freedom and a more development perspective, this is something good, not just for the government today, but for the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need two minutes. Mr. Dendias asked what we've been doing these three years. Firstly, we have blocked the creation of new red loans, because we have increased employment, because we have stopped the recession, because the economy is recovering. Secondly, we have created an integrated institutional framework for dealing with red loans. And today, we are discussing some of them. Thirdly, we have established social and development criteria in the management of the loans. I would like to point out that it exists in the budget. And here is a point of self-criticism that you told me to do: While we institutionalised this sum of 100 million and entered the budget, it was not exploited because this measure was not known, because perhaps we did not do what was necessary to make it known and accessible. Now, with the changes that we have made, it can also be taken by creditors, so that those who cannot pay the dose the court will take - I am thinking here of the Katseli - Statakis Act - can help the state in these cases. Fourthly, we have negotiated and managed to extend the limits of application of both laws and the Katseli Act and the extrajudicial law. Fifthly, we are ready to introduce new programmes that they discover and which do not fall under these laws, some of which have no place to resort. Within the next few weeks, I believe that we will be able to implement a programme that enables the free professionals who have closed the shop, their jobs, etc., to be able to be strengthened so that they can reopen their business and with some of the money they receive, to pay for their loans or part of their loans. Is that political results? Of course it has this political effect. And it breathes to some citizens and to some businesses and reduces the mountain of red loans. Because I can hear the numbers changing, I can testify to the table in the minutes. The loans reached the peak, as we say, at the top of the total in absolute figures in 2014. It was 78.5 billion euros. They closed in 2017 with EUR 65.9 billion. We've got a reduction in red loans. It is not true that red loans have increased over the last three years. What is true is that housing loans, because exactly cases have been accumulated without regulation in the Katselis Act, we do have a continuation, we have a stabilisation. Overall, however, in red loans, we have this improvement. It is important because it exists, but it needs to be more intensified. We therefore have a policy that responds to the problem and which must be constantly tested and constantly improved, and if we see next year that we still need to make use of other measures and other solutions, we are also prepared to do so in cooperation with the institutions responsible, in this case too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on No 23/15/28-3-2018 on the subject is closed: 'Full failure of the extrajudicial compromise - only twenty-three companies benefited'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-25-S1-commons.u94	With the consent of the House at 21.18 p.m. the sitting is closed next Wednesday, 27 June 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
