ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Department's 19-7-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its 2nd session of Thursday, 19 July 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Definition of Protocol No. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union are not jeopardized by the fact that it is not just the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union who are members of the European Union.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda of questions, let me tell the Department the topical and urgent question report on Tuesday 24 July 2018. QUESTIONS (Rules 29(1) and 130(8) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 10/18-7-2018 by MP Pireaus and the Islands of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled "The Need to deal with the phenomenon of bullying". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Greek Defence Systems (ESA)". 3. The 11/19-7-2018 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Environmental crime is continuing with the installation of wind park in the Akarnaean Mountains by the company Peragoda Akaranian S.A.". 4. The Question No 4-12-2018 by MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Pediatric Clinic GN Carditsa”. 5. The 1/12-7-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the Centre for Refugees in Scaramaga" is "uncontrolled. 6. The Question No 7-16-2018 by the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Large delays in the payment of beneficiaries of OAS unemployment programmes". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The current question tabled by the Group of Parliament, Mr Stavros Theodorakis and the MPs Mr George Amyras, Spyridon Danellis, Spyridon Lykoudis, George Mavrotis and Gregorios Psarios Psarios, Tourism, Economy and Development, Home and Education, Research and Religious Affairs will be discussed at the No 1/17-7-2018. Of the questioners, the first Member has 10 minutes of speaking time, and the rest of the questions have five minutes in their prototypes and in denture have five minutes of the first question and three minutes of the rest. A representative of the Government is the Deputy Minister of Environment and Energy, Socrates Famelos, who has twenty minutes of speaking time for protology, ten minutes for dentistry and five minutes for tritology. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Merope Jufi, who has 10 minutes of speaking for protology, five minutes for dentistry and three minutes for tritology, is also a representative. The first honourable Member of the River Attica, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Potami wants to deal with issues relating to the next generations and not just next polls. That is why the issue of rehab from plastics has been raised with this timely question, which at some point needs to be taken seriously in our country as well. It is an issue that we need to act on now to bring the benefits of future generations to fruition, from which we have only learned to take. So let's leave them something. The subject of the topical question is the rehab of plastics, mainly disposable plastics. In addition to this question, on June 5, 2018, on the occasion of World Environment Day, Stavros Theodorakis sent a letter to the President of the Parliament, proposing that all plastics for use be phased out from the candles and restaurants of the Parliament, as well as the placement of recycling barrels in all areas of the central palace of the Parliament and other buildings, to do something in practice, to give the good example. We're already late. Potami has the environment up on its agenda, for it is precisely because it always talks about sustainable development, where economic development must coexist with social cohesion and respect for the environment. In their speeches, colleagues from Potami will refer to the good examples, financial instruments, the situation in Europe and Greece. With the first speech, I will start where we always have to start from education. Good environmental behaviour is primarily a matter of education. Action is needed, and in time from the early years of the children, which will be the future citizens of this country, actions which will be part of the structure of our educational system. Besides, the content and quality of the education we give to children and young people hide many of the problems of our time, such as ignorance, indifference to the environment. We need to learn new generations not to make the same mistakes as us. Let's go see, however, the specific environmental issue of rehab from plastics and see what the state is doing to create environmental education, raise awareness of children from primary to secondary education and then to adults at school at EHS. Students first contact the theme of plastic and general packaging through the section "recycling of waste" in the 4th Grade in the "Environmental Study". However, there are opportunities for further developing the environmental sensitivity of children through a flexible zone and experiential actions, where environmental education is provided with a focus on waste management and recycling. Unfortunately, however, in the next levels of education and especially in high school and in high school there are no specialist environmental education courses. We're stopping with the house economy at the First High School. Inevitably the first and main question arises: Is this enough? I think it is not enough to think about the large numbers of plastic packaging in Greece combined with the low recycling rate. However, before I go through what needs to be done, I should like to open up a parenthesis and refer to the initiatives that teachers themselves take and which we must praise. In primary schools, as well as to a lesser extent in the country's high schools and high schools, environmental awareness programmes are being carried out, either under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, even the church, or at the initiative of local municipalities and regions. Such actions and programmes, where there is great acceptance and participation by the school communities, are, for example, major recycling celebrations for students, visits to environmental education and reciprocity parks, the Greek educational back-up competition organised by the National Association of Reciprocal Alternative Packages - "Recycling Recycling" - the student competition "recycling" in collaboration with EDNSNA, Attica Region, APHI and the recycling of packaging, as well as the educational program that makes packages for primary, high school students and the First High School of Attica and Thessaloniki. It is also worth mentioning the Environmental Education Network "OECD Schools", an international network that started in Greece in 1995 and is aimed at schools of all levels of education. Over thirty - thirty schools participate, many of which are awarded annually. Finally, pointing out here the positive example and the activeness of several private schools in this area. I close the parenthesis of these praiseworthy actions, but we should not close our eyes to the fact that, unfortunately in most schools, it is not done in a structured way of recycling, not even the paper how much plastic. But what should be done and what should be the responsibility of the state and the Ministry of Education as the first pillar? Firstly, we have to agree that the few hours for the sections of the waste management of packaging materials, etc. are not enough. More educational material and time needs to be devoted. Do not stop in elementary school, invest in teenage students, exploit their dynamism and make them societal and pioneers in the fight to protect the environment. Secondly, experiential learning, experimentation, implementation of projects and cooperation between children and their teachers is of great importance. Thirdly, a programme to raise awareness among students with a view to the destructive consequences, such as the one of the islands of plastics or the creatures that die of plastic waste. One thing is certain: the children will be very interested and mobilised. A fourth point is synergies with municipalities and local authorities, so that through programmes financed by national or European resources or private sponsorships, recycling cans are installed for various materials, such as paper, aluminium and plastics, in the largest number of schools. Fifth point. Apart from the role played by the former Environmental Education Centres, which have been changed by the recent Law on Education Structures and have been renamed to Sustainable Education Centres, lectures by invited speakers must be made on plastics issues to reduce the use of such materials and the possibility of their recycling. A similar educational material should probably be created. Sixth, presenting successful examples of initiatives and actions by other students from Greek schools and also from foreign schools. Let us see what is happening in other countries, the international experience. Seventhly, the Ministry of Education may establish conditions for limiting the sale of disposable plastic packaging in schools. Eighthly, with regard to universities and the TEIs, let me put it two dimensions. On the part of education, sustainability issues have found their place in the curriculum. Especially in engineering schools - and from my experience at the Polytechnics School - they also have a great deal of response from the students. In the daily life of universities, however, I believe that the administrations of the institutions within the framework of the self-government, which we always support, should put up the agenda the issue of environmental education and environmental practice. They must have a budget amount for the installation of recycling bins. They could still put some clauses in the contracts with the owners of the canisters to reduce plastics, the glasses in the squids, and so on. Finally, the student community can take the initiative of voluntary groups to take part in environmental actions and initiatives within and outside university spaces. In conclusion, education for children and young people should finally be an important part of the national strategy of rehab on plastics. It should already be a top priority, but until now, it has become cowardly and small steps. The bet against the extensive use of plastics and generally environmental protection is a big bet that has to be won as early as it is ever before, from childhood to school. The attitude of individual responsibility and the fact that "I don't expect it all from a state, Father" must already be cultivated by the school. The well-known slogan of sustainability "think global, act local, "think global, act local" here must become "think tomorrow, act today", "think tomorrow and act today". Action in education is the best investment in tomorrow. But it pays off several times later than the election cycle. And this seems to be an insurmountable obstacle to the Greek political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Lykoudis, MP for Athens and Z Vice-President of the Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u4	I am not going to do a second, Mr President, so if I go over time for one, two minutes, that's all right. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought, in relation to our timely question, to find out what can be a positive example of this international effort, and also in our country, because I think it is better to get into this debate with an open and positive eye and an effort that we all have to make to manage waste and plastics. I have named this intervention myself, i.e. to have it in my hands, entitled 'good examples', and I would like to refer to some of them. One does not need to look too far to see that we here in our country, unfortunately, do not have an effective policy on waste management, and one does not want to see failure in our country to separate and recycle the waste produced. The figures at European Union level are coming to confirm this weakness. In 2016 almost 80% of the waste in Greece was buried in HYTA, unfortunately and at the same time our country recorded the third worst recycling performance with the recycling rate of 17%, with Malta and Romania being behind us in the last positions. However, I do not want to stay on this because I really want to insist on what I told you before and to see the positive example that might exist in this effort. In our country the efforts are fragmented and mainly fall within the scope of civil, environmental or municipal organizations, some of the rulers of local government. For example, the Municipality of Elefsina, in collaboration with the Ecological Recycling Company, implemented the door-to-door information program for integrated waste management. Eight thousand local residents were involved in this story. That's serious and positive. In the municipality of Leipson, the bins have been removed as they have achieved complete recycling of waste and landfilling of residues and a higher treatment of liquid waste water. That's serious and positive. Over the past few years, and even before applying the laws on plastic bags to some Greek islands, action has already been taken in this direction. The pioneer was Alonissos, who, with the action "Alonissos without plastic bags" managed almost to eliminate the plastic bag from the island, while Sifnos, Chios, Sikinos and Santorini followed. These are serious and positive examples. There are other actions. The "My glass" action, where a network has been created by businesses in which consumers have a discount on their rosés, if they do not use a disposable glass, but have their own reused. But are these internals in our country enough? The state can remain inert and simply monitor serious and positive citizens' initiatives, without contributing to our own legislation - is the criticism that I am currently facing, and I tell you to know it, Minister and Minister - in our efforts without being able to present as a country an integrated strategy to tackle the problem? Let's see what's going on outside of us in the European countries. You recently saw Charles when he came and refused to drink with a plastic straw. No matter how retreat we have to the princes and kingdoms, the movement was symbolic and was of particular importance. So we need to know many times how and we can give such symbolic examples with moves. In Britain, Prime Minister Teresa Mei said he would make $87.3 million in research worldwide for waste management in developing countries. Under legislation, the use of plastic straws, chips and moist scarves in public spaces is prohibited in Great Britain. I assume that this will also work in the consciousness of all citizens not to consume any such plastics. Following a campaign, signatures were drawn up on the subject: "Purpose-free Parliament" and on the initiative of the civil organisation, it was finally decided to abolish the use of plastics in the British Parliament and in the Lords Parliament. In Spain, in France... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] Mr President, I have also asked for my denial. France has announced that from 1-1-2020 it will prohibit the sale of plastics - glasses, plates, cutlery - in supermarkets. Also, from the same date prohibits batteries having a plastic axis. In Spain, since 2019, plastic bottles are prohibited in hotels and are obliged to give water to those requesting it from taping in ice cubes or multipurpose glasses. In Germany, Munich, the municipality since 1990 has banned the use of a disposable glass or bottle at any major event. In Freiburg, the municipality promotes the sale, against a euro, of a reused cup of coffee that the one who uses it can then leave it in any coffee or a collaborative bakery to be used from there on without having to be plastic. Finally, not long ago, the European Parliament allocated to all workers glass cucumbers with a view to encouraging them to fill water from the coolers everywhere. A coordinated effort with small steps, but essentially symbolically and symbolically, to address this issue. Not to mention the unlikely case of this country of surprises, China, where they have been formed at the metro stations, in such a way, machines for importing plastic containers which, depending on how many plastic containers you will drop in the cans to withdraw later and deal with in a different way, are rewarded with a metro ticket number. They try everywhere to find ways in which to deal with a scourge of the time that is plastic and everything that results. Ladies and gentlemen, to finish, in our country where tourism is a key pillar of the economy and its land and sea environment are its greatest wealth, the role of the spectator is not appropriate. The development of a clear national strategy is more urgent than ever and there is no luxury of time simply to await the conclusion of the debate currently taking place in the European Union. On the contrary, our country must monitor in good time, but wherever possible with original policies and actions. We must not forget that we have the power and knowledge to originalize. After all, thirty-four years ago in this country the "Glaros" - for those who remember it - came to the Greeks with the message: "No garbage - not plastics in our seas and shores." The message of the "Glaros" then is more timely today than ever. We are trying today to raise awareness of the government's question to take initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative for the River Mr Amyras has the floor. For your prology and dentistry together you have eight minutes, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the baton from where Dear Spyros Lykoudis left her, who made a very good comment with the visit of Prince Carolus and his wife who drank coffee in a Greek coffee and said they don't want plastic straw. That's right, he put it. You saw that there was a reaction - I would say - a little miserable by the press and various factors. And then 'he got up' - the world is supposed to: 'How shall we drink our coffee?' That's where a Greek company makes straws of compressed paper. It's a very powerful company with an export orientation. I would like to say that in everything there is an answer and a solution, as long as we have a clear orientation. Last week, last weekend, we had a family bathroom on an Evia beach. We said we'd go to a secluded beach. We walked through a rough path about an hour and twenty minutes. We were happy to see the beach completely licensed from above and we said "What nice we'll be on our own on the beach". As soon as we got down to the beach we weren't alone, there were thousands of plastics on this secluded beach that broke our mood, because we felt sorry for the landscape. So this is the situation in the Greek seas and on the shores, everywhere plastic. But there are also good examples internationally. And here we have to start thinking about the cyclical economy. It is encouraging - and I will say it - that the Ministry has indeed opened up for one, a year and a half a debate and takes steps towards the cyclical economy. Come see some positive examples from abroad. A big sports corporation is making a swimsuit with Retails from textile factories. A company in France collects chemical toilet waste water from the hundreds of festivals held in the country and takes out phosphorus for use in agricultural crops. One of the world's largest multinational retailers raises two million tonnes of empty packaging each year, which either recycles or reuses. Part of the circular economy is also the airbnb-type platforms, where there is a mediation and the user-customer undertakes to contact the seller who will host the tourist. It's a place of the circular economy. The trend of the global economy and society seems to be changing in terms of both major industries and daily habits of citizens. We are therefore leaving the vertical model of the linear economy based on the three-fold production - consumption - rejection and going to the cyclical economy, allowing the use of materials for a much longer period while minimising the use of natural resources, a circular model which can be disassembled and reused with the least possible processing. So we save natural resources, energy, raw materials. After all, in a world that will soon arrive and exceed 10 billion people in a population, it is obvious that today's productive model cannot last much. Now, because my time is necessarily limited, I want us to come a little bit to the Greek case. Cities full and coasts drown in garbage. We see that we are paying for the mistakes of our short-sighted optics. See what's going on in Corfu. Corfu is drowning in the trash, because there was no proper management of the way it would be discarded or reused. Here we have some evidence. In 2016, according to data from EUROSTAT, 82% of the waste in Greece was buried in so-called landfill sites. It is the second worst performance in the European Union after Malta. In Malta 92% of the waste is buried. Also, of the five million three hundred and fifty-four thousand tonnes of waste produced in 2016 in Greece - to see it in figures - the four million four hundred thousand tonnes ended up in landfills. Only seven hundred thirty thousand tonnes went for recycling and only eighty-three thousand tonnes for composting. The surveys of the last few years, during which large quantities of waste have been collected from the bottom of four Gulfs of Western Greece, Patraikos, Corinthian, Laconikos and the Echinades Sea, have concluded that 56% of the waste in the Greek seas is plastic. Here, of course, I fully agree with what my dear colleague George Mavroas said that everything is a matter of education, education and homework. According to measurements by the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, listen, in each kilometre of beach every year, between 200 kilograms to a tonne of garbage. We've turned our beaches into landfills, unfortunately. And the shocking thing is that they have found plastics from the researchers of ΕΚΕΤΗ and in depth into the sea that reaches one kilometre. All this, microplastics in particular, pass into the food chain of marine organisms and through marine organisms reach our plate and go through the human chain. There is, therefore, a vicious circle, unfortunately, in the case of Greece, which starts from the non-use of waste and reaches the consumption of waste, almost by us people in our food. So all that I have said before shows that the growth of the cyclical economy only win-win balances can offer, both for the environment and for the daily lives of the citizens. Especially for us, Greece, which is a beautiful country, the circular economy and its intent are an excellent passport to enter the club of those countries that have as their top of their developments in their economy and in their society just the reuse, the cyclical economy, nothing is lost, nothing is thrown away and, to the greatest extent possible, the material is used. It is the cyclical economy that is the necessary and necessary fuel to get our economy back ahead. Also, it's an important field of research for our universities. It is an element that will make Greeks love and care for their place again and perhaps the next great and essential aim of our country, with immediate benefits for society and the economy. Potami has raised the issue of its environmental agenda from the very first moment on the issue of the circular economy. We are proud that since 2015 we have been constantly asking questions and suggestions about this sector of the economy, which is an area of everyday life and our society. I believe that today's question, and with the contributions of all colleagues, will come out of something good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I must confess, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate we are having is very critical for both the economy and the environment and for the overall functioning of our society. It is a debate on world production and global society. From this reading, I would like to congratulate the river Parliamentary Group on the choice of this issue. He said this at the beginning and Mr Mavrotas said it is a debate which concerns the future and the life of all of us. Of course, I must say that we as parliamentarians should have been more here. I take this role to make a self-critic, despite the fact that I am here and we are here to contribute to this debate. This debate opens up two major political axes, inextricably linked. One concerns the conversion of production and the operation of production, and the other concerns waste management. They're completely connected. I do not underestimate the issues of education and training that you have put in introductory terms, but my colleague will say in particular about these issues - but they are elements of the functioning of society which are important. What is inextricably linking the two upper political axes, the economy and the management of the environment is the cyclical economy, as you rightly said. The management of resources and the exploitation of resources is now a crucial issue of global survival and much more for us, Europe, it is also a question of Europe's survival and global competition. From this introductory point of view, I would like to inform you that our country has, for a long time, been aware of the institutional, political and critical nature of the matter. That is why the country's development plan, which was discussed both in the Eurogroup and in Parliament's plenary on how we come out of the crisis, has institutional and symbolic, but I also believe that - but it will be considered - a specific chapter on the cyclical economy and has instruments of sustainability indicators to quantify its performance. Because we both need to look, namely how we have specific policies to change production towards the cyclical economy, and how all the economic functions will have sustainability parameters to be assessed. This debate gives us the opportunity to take a step back and again, once again, once again, from the Step of the House that there are two major global political considerations and starting points for everything and we must agree on that. It's the only way to go forward. The first issue concerns climate change. The 2015 Paris Agreement is a crucial, essential issue of life for the planet. We cannot discuss without the framework of Paris, and I think we should all say that. The second is the objectives of sustainable development of the UN, namely the political programme for 2030, what Europe has accepted as a central issue. And it is very important that it has objectives such as poverty, education, health, labour and, of course, all environmental issues. We had the joy and honour last Monday, representing our country in its first voluntary assessment by the UN, to present the sustainable development targets in New York. For Greece, let us put two more issues. One issue concerns ecosystems, particularly marine ecosystems, but also the overall natural wealth of our country, since the protection of marine and general ecosystems of protected areas against pollution is a crucial issue for both us and our children, as well as for the development reserve. It's not just tourism, it's tourism, it's health. Because indeed all the data show that at least 50% of the marine waste is disposable plastics. We can confirm that. There are serious problems in protected species in Greece, such as cetaceans or other marine animals, which are directly affected by marine pollution. Of course, we have also made a special political division, the law for management bodies of protected areas. And finally - I believe that you will also support - the delimitation of NATURA marines for Greece is an important step in the same direction as the holistic approach to environmental issues. However, the essence of Greece - let us have the debate on our country - is European debate, I repeat, but let us see what is happening here - is about the production and consumption standards of our country and the whole of Europe, which want to change. In our country, this is even more true, because we are even further behind if you want. It is important that we are in the last places of recycling and the first places of burial. Can I add that we are in the first position of fines and in the last place - were we in 2015 - to integrate environmental legislation? We will not do this in the short time of political competition. I want us to compete in the long term. The essence is, however, that we need to amend standards and production practices at the same time as consumer habits. And here we must not wait for who will take the first step. We must agree that these changes must be made at the same time at all levels. In other words, when we make such a position, we will not only be representatives of an industry, a productive industry or a society or a parliament, but at the same time we will also be active citizens and consumers. Why if in a group of Greeks are placed by 95% in favour of recycling, the question is then why is there only one 10% of recyclable materials in the municipalities and if atypical recycling is removed, then we reach 7% of the municipal contribution to the recycling index? Because of the 17% that exists today, 7% is due to municipal current and at the same time the rest is due to professional, craft and atypical recycling. And a 3% is composting. With last year's data, we finally got to 20% recovery. And that's something, even though it's too small in relation to what we need. So changing production and consumer habits is not just a matter for the citizen, who started with it. It's a case of the economy itself. Here too, there are very difficult changes. I say this in introductory terms, because in the last year and a half we have been discussing - at least I have the personal experience with my position and responsibility - with industry and production and all the representatives of the productive sectors about how we change the production model. And here are only very big and difficult changes. For this reason, I would like to say - because I do not want to say that we have solved everything, that we have started all the initiatives - that we are clearly and exploiting much of what is being heard today. We won't enter a sterile rival over everything we've done or not. Secondly, because this debate has to be held with society, I would like you to contribute from all sides to the democratic arch, the forces of Parliament and of society in a debate that we are going to have with the producers. We have a joint working party already with the plastic industries link. However, we are also preparing some public procedures, because this debate needs to be open. For example, in the report, which is usually discussed in Greece's economic and productive model, we are already planning an open procedure with the congresses, which we will discuss new production standards, new production functions, such as what technologies exist, what materials are there, how production needs to be changed so that the Greek industry can be sustainable and the cost of living is low, because that is what the big debate is doing. However, the debate we are now doing is linked to the country's overall productive model and to the great economic crisis that we have experienced. Because this deadlock - if you like - had been identified in the crisis of the previous years. The productive model that prevailed in Greece, a model that was defensive to resources and at the same time was offensive to the environment and the citizen, was an element, if you like, of the crisis, of bankruptcy. It has led us to unsustainable economic functions, apart from the fact that they were clearly not sustainable environmentally. In practice, we did not have an organised production function and we did not have a long-term competitive industry. Our country's economic model was small state-owned contracts for some who made them offshore abroad or villas. It was not an investment in production and knowledge so that the product would be competitive abroad, be able to have an extroversion, be viable. There was no sustainability when we had no industrial waste disposal area. What government can pride itself in having solutions to production and being a friend of the private sector when it has no industrial waste management facility in Greece? It is obvious that any support to the private sector in the previous governments was falsified. It was a lie. It was loans for a few airs and money abroad. Contracts to a small, conscientious bourgeoisie, which renewed its power at the same time as the parties to bipartisanism, but which left nothing to science, economy and production of the country. So this model needs to be changed. And this model was connected one-sided with state supplies and with many, if you like, dark points of politics and family rule. And they were very introverted. I would say that to some extent it was provincial in terms of Europe and international economic competition and international progress. We in advance have also said so and your rapporteurs have chosen that the cyclical economy be an integral part of the development strategy. It is in the chapter of the development strategy adopted by the Eurogroup, and it has a decision of the Governing Council for Economic Policy, we put it for consultation, we put it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee has already been placed, because it really must not be left alone within us because it is not a government tool. The Economic and Social Committee has undertaken to work it out to be a horizontal political element in our country. And it is an economic tool that also has a regional dimension, but at the same time it fuels all the sectors of the economy, because it is also about the private sector, about the social sector and the self-government, and also about the cooperative. It also gives us the great potential to reduce the great problems we have in handling waste. Because it is no secret that our country, when we were in charge of governance, had three hundred HSY. That was, if you like, the excellence of the Samara government - Venizelou. Three hundred uncontrolled waste disposal sites and 50m euros fines for them, not to put the remaining 30m euros for biological without a drainage network, see Triumph or East Attica and the chaos of the lack of waste water. This must therefore be changed by creating jobs in the green economy and for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for new skills. That is why we consider it very important that this debate is taking place within the House and that it remains horizontal for everyone with at least a 20-year perspective. The national action plan for the circular economy includes ecological transformation, but not only from the private sector, which we must start from there, but also from the public. It cannot be said that the public does not have criteria for green public contracts. It is unacceptable that there should be no such criteria, which is why we triggered the task force. The other issue, which has been left on paper for some time, is that we cannot recycle and limit organic waste. Food waste is also a social offense. In Greece of the crisis and in the world of food shortages, you cannot throw away so many foods, consume so many foods that are out of use. You did begin, Mr Mavrotas, from environmental education using an example in my own locations, when I did environmental education, that we cannot train or support children in school with a few or a lot of tools, and then dad throws the cigarette pack out of the car and mom half the food or vice versa the cigarette pack and dad half the food in the trash at noon. It is an overall environmental awareness process that we all need to integrate. In the action plan for the circular economy, which Europe has realised is an essential element of its survival, there is a special priority for plastics. In fact, plastics must now only be dealt with in a light, that is the possibility of recycled, recycled and reused, because there is a need for serious changes in the production process so that they are also repairable and reusable. Unfortunately, at the moment, a very important material for human survival, plastics, has been overused or if you want it consumed in a way that affects the environment. Why should we not demonise the technology of plastics and polymers and the possibilities it offers, for example, to human health, because despite many tools of hospitals and health it is based on plastics and polymers. But it is the way it is used, and it is the way it is produced - which is geared to the opportu­nity use of a single material - which creates serious problems, and perhaps also the awareness that has so far been involved in the disposal of these materials in the environment. Let us know that these problems in other areas are more tragic. We do not want to say that we are well, because you did indeed, Mr Amyras, say that you found many plastics on an abandoned beach. Unfortunately, there are islands in the Pacific that are filled with plastics, there are states that have no clear coast anywhere and the problems are more important there, but we must contribute to a global effort and act locally. That is why the European Commission has recently put forward a proposal for a directive which we are discussing at the Council of Ministers, which we would like to have a debate on, because it represents the country in the Council of Ministers - it will be the second half of the year for plastics - it will be good to see your own proposals - I mean Parliament - and to put it to the Ministry of the Environment in another targeted debate on what we propose. Here, therefore, the European Commission is proposing to reduce, obviously, pollution: reducing the consumption of disposable plastic products, such as all food containers, banning the placing on the market of plastic products such as batteries, cutlery, dishes and disposable glasses, introducing specific requirements for products such as bottles, for example, and compulsory recycling at higher levels, 90% - there are proposals and very close to 2025 - but at the same time, if you want, the ban on other products from handkerchiefs - one can refer to cigarettes, as well as other products with a logic of entering everywhere either security systems or the producer's extended liability systems. Whether one or the other, it is practically necessary to introduce some economic countermeasures, so that producers of the products are responsible for recycling and reuse of these materials. Here too, there is a very big change, now economical. Therefore, the user of the product should bear a cost, which will be transferred to the producer or to a system that he creates to recycle or prevent, if you want, the disposal of this material. Beforehand, I tell you that this is the debate in which we are involved. It is obvious that we will move in this direction. However, I would like this debate to take place with one justice and for Greek production, because Greek production has well or badly developed over time, geared to the products of use. We have large industries, both for glasses and for straws, as we had for plastic bags, and we need to discuss how we will ensure the sustainability of work in our country, and this also in relation to European competition that has perhaps invested in higher value added products with a possible smaller environmental footprint, but there are also issues in these countries that we need to see. This practically suggests on our part the need for the European directive to be shaped equally in European countries and not unequally at the expense of only Greek producers. On the other hand, it also suggests the Greek producers' obligation to take measures. When two years ago we had called on Greek producers of disposable plastic and plastic bags to modify the production line for biodegradable materials, such as starch or higher thicknesses to be multiple-use, the first impression given to me was that yes, they heard it, but we did not see these changes being made. We have seen this when we have now reached the implementation of the measure, which seemed to surprise the Greek market, but for a year and a half on my part, I have been telling you that this process of overconsumption of plastic bags, which was also a European directive, will change. We have also done so, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to be proud that we have done so on our own initiative. Obviously, we had to make a cut in production, but these issues are very important and we had to change them. The European Union was also calling for this because the market is changing globally. I would like to put to you some other elements that are very important. China recently amended the reused or recycled plastic framework. This means that the global market in plastics has changed overnight, in fact and too many European companies in the management of waste have remained with thousands, not to say millions, tons of material indisposed, and the Greek market has suffered a great shock from this change, which has obviously had to do with the introduction of strict environmental standards to the raw materials imported into China or processed and how China wants to intervene in global competition. This obliges us to set two new criteria, for which we have to be absolutely serious, if you like. One concerns ecodesign. Products which either are single-use or are not single-use which have multiple types of plastics or materials which cannot be recycled simultaneously should have a different economic burden. We cannot have in a bottle of different plastic on the bottle, different on the cap, different on the label, and this cannot be recycled by a technology. In addition, recycling systems should not only look at how they will finance from the municipal waste to the recycling plant, but should finance the whole life of the product. It is the so-called ‘life cycle analysis’, ‘life cycle analysis analysis’ and should now be the end, any economic stimulus, to be addressed throughout the whole life of the product. That is the only way we have holistic management of these major problems and better market tools. We have chosen this for ourselves: with the new pricing policy that we have established for the municipalities, there is a reflection of the processing costs paid by the TAs, in relation to the amount of recycling they achieve. This has been legislated. As has been legislated by the local waste management plan, as a new recycling law has been enacted, as the national waste management plan has been enacted, as the National Prevention Plan has been enacted and much I will say in my denture, because you are asking about what instruments we have received from the institutions, but I have chosen in my prototype to remain in the change of production and consumer function. So our view is - and this by the end of the year will be applied - that the pricing policy of the municipalities should not be linked to the burial fee as an incentive. We must put a bogeyman in this way - at the end of the route, but we must finance the reuse. Instead, to put a negative tool on the market, to create positive tools. All of us who do not recycle - so let me say, let me move - all those who recycle, so that we can have a Greek recycling industry. Because it is a question of changing the productive model to have work here. Because we may be seeking - and I say this transportly - a perfect country environmentally, but a perfect country environmentally also having work. So we need to see how to link these two major changes, which I think are satisfying you too, and you think this is the case. For example, this may involve other materials. Let me give you an example. Greenhouse leaves. A huge amount of plastic that needs to be placed in a guarantee and recycling regime. In other words, they should be returned to the producer in some way and possibly linked to an end. Like plastic bottles that can be linked to a guarantee, such as beer, glass bottles. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that at the same time as the research and training activities to be presented by my colleague, there should be voluntary agreements on the market. The way and the reason we are talking about now with industry is that until the directive of the European Union - the institutions - is not yet complete, it is a sound directive - we need to make changes, such as shores without plastics. I have repeatedly proposed this in public places. It is an initiative that the Association of Tourism Industries can launch. I have also discussed this with the institutional political leadership of the Ministry of Tourism as a voluntary, if you like, attempt to change the country's profile and give a new product to the international area. To increase the interest in the economy of the country. Obviously the environment is of great interest anyway, and they are elements that we should consider. In my second position, I will tell you in particular political elements, as well as the great intersection we have done on the plastic bag, which shows that these tools that you have opened, we are indeed advocating that they must enter both consumption and production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, would you like to speak now or then? Mr. Theodorakis, can Mrs. Jufi lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u10	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I think I'm going to need a little more time and I'm going to use my dentistry to complete the placement of the Ministry of Education. First of all, I would like to say that it is a very important meeting that is taking place in a very positive climate for one which may exist and which may find wider consensus. I should also like to thank you for the question of the whole river Parliamentary Group. To tell you the truth, on page 5 I was looking for the question to the Ministry of Education. You say: "Tell us how there will be cooperation with scientific and educational bodies in order to train citizens and students in the reasoned use of plastics". I understand, however, from the initial position of my dear colleague, Mr Mavroy, how much you have raised the issue of what he is doing and how the Ministry of Education contributes in this direction, and Mr Mavroy also referred to this. I therefore think that the Ministry of Education, in its position, should respond to these issues and I must say that it seeks and has to create the school gradually and in the long term an environmental culture geared to sustainability, but aimed at changing the daily practice and attitudes of pupils and teachers. So I come to the areas where I am responsible. I would first like to mention the existence of supportive educational structures, which are responsible for drawing up and implementing the relevant training programmes. Acknowledging the importance of these issues, the Ministry has included in its new agency the Sustainable Programme and Education Support Directorate. Thus, according to the newly adopted law, Law 4547/2018, existing environmental education centres become centres for sustainability, to which you referred. Theoretically their number increases, because there were some who did not function and are inactive. Personnel may need to be redistributed, but they will be the same or more for their staff and will cooperate with regional centres, the PCIs as they are called, precisely to support school units in issues relating to sustainability education, with an emphasis on the environment and in the areas related to sustainable development. The Ministry's address will be co-operating with these structures, as well as with primary and secondary education addresses, with the aim of planning, organising, monitoring, as well as supporting programmes, actions, conferences and seminars. Of course, the Ministry must cooperate - and it has been said in all tons - with the other Ministries and with local government, with public and non-public bodies and with non-governmental organisations and every school year approves - and this is well known - cooperation in order to implement educational programmes and information visits to schools aimed at raising awareness of the school community. Let's see, did we have such programmes that were implemented in the last year of 2017-2018 in primary and secondary education? With regard to pollution from plastic waste, which is the specific subject we are asking for, and the restriction of the use of plastic products for the protection of the marine environment in particular, Section I Education for the Environment and Sustainability, approved the implementation of the following programmes: It was the "Once for a long time was the plastic bag" of the "SOS Mediterranean" network and the "SOS Mediterranean" programmes with titles: "Protection of marine and coastal ecosystems, save the Med", "Water waste: the footprint of visitors on the shores", "Teep forward to the plastic bag", again from the "SOS Mediterranean" network. Now, what have environmental education centres done? They also implemented environmental education programmes with students and teachers. That's enough. There's one - let's call him - beaming. We have water programs from the Kordelios-Vertis Kordelios Kordelios Kertis Kordeskos Kordeskos Kordeskas Kordeskas Kortelios Kortskos K. and the sea, from the Kyrioupolis Kyproupolis Kyproupolis Kyproupolis, we have the program "A sea for us and future generations". We also have the "Fishery, Tourism and Elefsina Coast" programme, a Saronic neighborhood, from the Elefsina Cup and you have already referred to these actions that are going on there. We also have the programs: "Good waste management" from the Paranestium Cup, "Water environment - threatened species, my garbage decreases, my island is not bleaching" from the Lithaki Cup of Zakynthos, "Water environment - threatened species: But are there no garbage at all?", "Recycling and surviving" of the Acharnon Cup, "Lively living our ecological footprint", "The value of the water, the marine ecology" of the Cup of Chios, "The sea mirror, when the sea meets Frynia the dolphin" from the Cup of Korthos Andros, "The value of the water, the marine ecology" of the Cup of Petalodos Rhodes. I've referred to some of these. You can see how flagship titles they have and how much they can pass on to society. On the occasion of the World Environment Day, which was on June 5, 2018, the CCTs organized other actions, such as "By farewell to plastic bags", "The plastic bags and the Corinthian Gulf as an NATURA area", "I'm making my own ecological bag" from the CCT on June 5 and 6. In particular now, the following national thematic networks for environmental education coordinated the following national themes: "Water and sustainable development", "Reserves, useful useless" from the Edessa-Giannitsa CC, "Rolls and Wastes: Decrease, reuse, recyclable" from the Kalamata CC, "Change behaviors, recycle SOS" from the Vamos CC. There have therefore been actions. Of course, it's never enough. We need a lot more. Now, I am going to talk about what the Ministry does itself and how it integrates environmental issues into school curricula. Mr Mavrotas referred to this as well. You'll allow me to be a little more detailed. We do have to have this accession. Environmental education, in other words, is tackled at the primary and secondary levels of education both interdisciplinary and there is a basic axis which runs the curriculum itself. Let's see it a little more specifically. The approach to these issues at school is mainly of a mandatory nature. Of course, schools can do other actions that are not mandatory. They, however, fall within the scope of the curriculum of various teaching objects, such as the context of the flexible zone in the elementary, the modern Greek language, the social and political education of the high school. They shall be specified by means of periodical activities or work projects proposed for implementation in various courses. They are even taught in the framework of independent teaching objects, such as environmental study in primary school, geography - geography in high school and the geology and management of natural resources in high school. In addition, the issues relating to this issue can be included - and they are several times - in the context of the teaching subject of research work, projects, which are carried out within the programme timetable in high school. Mr Mavrotas has already spoken about the need for experiential experiences and the integration of these examples into schools. Also in the thematic Week, supported by the Institute for Education Policy, no purely environmental issues have been raised. There are, however, as distinct basic axes. The thematic section "The Eco-Environment footprint of Nutrition" and related actions is proposed in the 'Food and Quality of Life' axis. In the new 'Cyber Education and Education' axis, the thematic section 'Courture Behaviour - Economy and the Environment' is proposed. Even in the ‘State Identities’ axis, materials and actions relating to the environment are proposed through gender perspective. So I mentioned briefly and indicatively the bodies and educational structures of the Ministry, as well as programmes aimed at creating a cognitive and worthy background for pupils and young people, so that responsible attitudes and participatory behaviour can be developed that can help to protect the ecological balance, quality of life and sustainable development. I was interested to hear the position on what we are doing at higher education institutions. I think that various individual actions and efforts are being taken. What is lacking at the level of higher education institutions is central coordination. I had the opportunity at the last meeting of the President-in-Office to discuss things beyond the purely university. We have therefore said that higher education institutions as a whole must also be the axis for other actions. For example, they should be guided by what we are doing in culture. There was an undertaking to create a single framework of university museums that are open to society, but to connect to other museums and to the same ticket there is a possibility of visiting because there is an important wealth. I put there publicly on the agenda the issue of what we do with people with disabilities, whether they are students or workers. There are individual actions to be taken, but we have said that there must be central coordination of these actions at the next meeting, which will then enable us to communicate with the disabled and all this to go as knowledge in society as well. I believe that the issue of the environment can be one of the next topics of discussion on how to coordinate the actions taken individually in higher education institutions. A network is being set up to contribute to this. Of course, all the proposals that can be made in this direction will come to us arrogant and we expect to hear them. In the few minutes that I have left, I will refer to the axes and actions of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. Of course you have received the written answer, which is more detailed. I'll just try to confuse her. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology focuses on actions aimed at developing new materials to replace plastics in a number of applications and developing environmental technologies to address today's major challenges, climate change, clean seas without plastics, etc. These actions are financed through both the ESDP 2014-2020 and the Public Investment Programme. There much more can be done. More specifically, in the context of the National Strategic Research and Innovation for Smart Specialisation, the main objectives of the Environment and Sustainable Development Action axis are: First, the support of enterprises for research and development technologies for the collection, sorting, separation and exploitation of products derived from the materials to be recycled. Secondly, the development of technologies for recovery, recycling and reuse of materials. Thirdly, the development of alternatives to the absorption and economic exploitation of recovered materials from special waste streams, the development of innovative applications and cutting-edge technologies for the management of urban waste, with emphasis on biowaste, and the relevant Minister for Industrial Waste and Special Waste Drought, such as agri-food waste and tyres, has referred to this. Fourthly, a sustainable development approach through the creation of standard research centres, for example upgrading laboratory equipment for solid fuel, biofuel and secondary fuels from urban waste, economic mapping of ecosystem services, etc. I also mention, for example, that in the recent announcement of the first cycle of the single State aid action: 'Research, I create, innovatively', seventeen proposals were adopted that coincide with the above priorities, at a total public expenditure of EUR 10.2 million, and to which private participation of EUR 1.65 million is leveraging. At the end of the evaluation stage, the specific action ‘Industrial Materials’, which includes the above financial priorities in the material sector, has a total public expenditure of EUR 6 million. The important multidisciplinary field of the circular economy is also at the heart of our attention - the Minister responsible said it much better than I - in terms of the country's development planning and in cooperation with the relevant ministries, because a policy mix is needed, as well as what you have all referred to, an environmental education for society and citizens for sustainable development and for the knowledge economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mrs Jufi, I wonder if the lesson of Citizenship, from elementary school to universities, should change completely, that is, to think about how the individual should behave in himself, in the environment, what he should do. And I think it should be free to discuss the matter at universities. I think that fundamental changes need to be made in order to get to plastics as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u14	I think it's not that long a route. As I said before, there have been changes in school books. However, there is, of course, a need - and that is why there is the special institute responsible for proposing changes of this type - which, Mr President, I agree with you, that we must be able to integrate them as quickly as possible and train our teachers to have this orientation. One motive is how the theme Week worked. They enjoyed it, despite the doubts they had, both teachers and children themselves. I think we should do a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. The President of the Party has the floor, Potami, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u16	I think the routine of old politics slows down the Greek step. Why am I saying it? All day long, we are having about the same public debate about the date of the elections, about the pensions we do not want to cut, but they will eventually be cut, about the hooligan performance in Exarches, about the bureaucracy of the administration, about the justice that is slow etc., etc. It is a constant repetition of the same and the same problems without solutions, which would allow us to give space and focus on modern problems, rather the big problems that concern the modern world. Several European countries, now also the European institutions, are developing dynamic policies to protect the environment and limit plastics. The steps are late, not for Greece, we will then go to Greece. As you may know, the international community has failed to enforce - although it has tried - a transformer for all types of mobiles. Europe has legislated, it has tried to enforce it, but the companies have not obeyed it. So every day someone changes a cell phone, apparently because they have different estimates of their performance and not because they have different estimates of their transformer, we have new tons of plastic in the dumpsters around the world. The evidence was presented. Ten everyday products, from plastic bottles to straws, along with fishing gear abandoned at sea, are 70% of the marine waste. According to the report by the European Environment Agency, at every 100 meters of beach in the Mediterranean, one will find ten plastic glasses, ninety plastic bottles and thirty squid. To say otherwise, each step on the Mediterranean coast means that you meet two glasses, one plastic bottle and three straws. So the debate on plastics should concentrate on all parties, all the means, not on a dreamerly ecological mood, but on why the decline in plastics will determine whether to win the bets of the present and future, bets linked to our health and economic development in the country. Many of these have been mentioned by my Potami colleagues and I shall not repeat them. The country is well-known to have the largest coastline - we are proud of it - throughout Europe, like most islands and should be the protagonist in the process of reducing plastics. In France, as you know, they have already decided in 2020, that is, in two years' time, on consumable tableware being made with materials that can be composted inside the house. In Britain, plastic straws, plastic studs, batteries and moist scarves have now been banned. In Spain, which is a competitive tourist country with our country, in tourist destinations since 2019, in other words, in a few months' time, it is forbidden for hotels and restaurants to have plastic bottles. Obviously you know that in American universities, almost everything, the consumption of plastic water bottles has been banned. In Australia cities, one after another, prohibit the sale of plastic bottles, while in Germany many cities follow Munich's policy, which for eighteen years prohibits the use of disposable drinks or bottles at any public event. The problem is very great for Europe, because, as you will know, China, which until now absorbed 50% of the plastics and buried them, that is, it took responsibility for Europe, has now decided to ban imports, which makes the management of Europe's plastic waste unbearable. The figures for Greece are well known for what we are consuming. I do not want to talk about this. What is very important, however, and it is a matter of political responsibility is that our country has a very low rate of recycling. It has only 16%, while in many countries of Europe it is over 50%. Of course, our seas, the Aegean, the Ionian Sea, the Cretan Sea have become garbage. 60% of the waste collected is plastic. The evidence and photos of "ARCHIPELAGOS" I think they are known to everyone and they are creepy. Look out, we've made a calculation. Each of us, each man and, better, each Greek, because it is based on our habits, puts its weight in plastic to the environment every five years. Calculate: They are ten pounds of bags five years, according to the statistics and contributions of supermarkets, i.e. how many bags they give people. They are ten pounds of bags, ten pounds of food packs, ten pounds of plastic cups, thirty pounds of plastic bottles, five pounds of squid, five pounds of batteries, ten pounds of daily hygiene. That's what happens every five years. That is, until we leave this in vain world, each of us puts in nature a ton of plastic and millions of tons of plastic all together. So let us start and quickly transfer the debate to primary schools, with children growing up in view of recycling, green - green - ecological bag, ecological packaging. Otherwise, we should think of our children swimming in a few years only in plastic bottles and plastic straws. But we must set an example. A few weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, on World Environment Day, we proposed to the President of Parliament the gradual abolition of all single-use plastics - glasses, squids, bottles, dishes, dishes, you know, we are all necessarily using them - from the canisters and restaurants of this Parliament. We have also reiterated a proposal from the outset with George Amyras that recycling cans should finally be placed in all areas, both at the centre of the palace and at the other places. And I don't only mean the paper, but all the modern recycling. We have not received any response from the Bureau of Parliament, from the President of Parliament and in general we have not seen any interest in anyone who should have had reason and view, because, you know, many times the debate on environmental protection is in Greece an unnecessary debate. However, we believe that this is a moment when there should be a national rehab strategy from plastics, and that should be our absolute priority. There are islands that have set an example. You know about Alonissos, Sifnos, Chios, Santorini. There has been a huge effort in Sicily, and I guess this year - I haven't called, to see if it is, but we have been told that it will happen since spring - it will not be released and there will be no straw. It's a pilot project funded by the Laskaridis Foundation. This is a very interesting effort in Sicily. The state must therefore promote the reuse and recycling of plastic materials. We must help the industry to go to the next stage, that is to say produce more environmentally friendly products. We need to financially strengthen local government separately when taking initiatives on green policies. We said something very specific. The Ministries at this time give enough money for various cultural, religious events throughout Greece. We have therefore proposed that the financial support for local cultural and religious events should be linked to avoiding the use of plastic drinks, dishes and cutlery and that we should finally have an honest and honest debate on garbage. Here, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you must also make a self-criticism about your attitude in the Keratea case. I will not go into detail. You know, however, that landfills are not available in many areas of the country, are absent on many islands, and the explosion of garbage in Attica is simply postponed. It is the case that the garbage is actually hiding under the carpet, the carpet of the Ghost. But when? We have to take a responsibility, as we have to give an answer about what we are doing with our garbage. We as Potami have taken responsibility since our establishment, because you know that from the outset we have said that a politician is not the one tracking garbage at sea, a politician is the one who has proposed to clean up the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Let's see how difficult things are, Mr. Theodorakis, it's enough to see that in the previous House, you'll remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u18	When? In 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u19	Not in 2015, in the previous government, let's say otherwise, eighty Members had called for the anti-smoking law to be implemented in this House. There has been an entire debate and a fuss about the law in force throughout the world, and there has been a ban on smoking. The counter-proposal was to put ashtrays on so the MPs wouldn't throw away the steaks. Eventually none of this happened, and the situation is as you can see. What I want to say is how difficult it is to go a step further and even self-evidently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u20	It's easy if we have a will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u21	We shall now proceed to the parliamentary representatives first by Mr Danellis, a Parliamentary representative from the Potami. Mr Dannelly, under the Rules of Procedure you must speak half the year because the President of your party spoke. But you have six minutes in the protology, three in the denology and two in the tritology, which we can put together if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u22	I will use all the time you will give me in my prototype, Mr President. I won't expand. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy of limiting plastic waste and the development of innovative technologies, in addition to good intentions to achieve its objectives, requires, of course, also the allocation of resources. The state itself must now be involved, but in cooperation with self-government - and it is selfgovernment that needs to be understood - to contribute to the effort to steer the resources available in actions which serve this purpose. Does this automatically involve an additional burden on the state budget? Not necessarily, because there are available Community funds, but they must be immediately exploited, without delay, targeted and thus effective. In particular, in the operational programme ‘Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development Infrastructures’ and in particular in the priority axis 14, the total public expenditure is more than EUR 2 billion. In addition, there are biowaste management actions with total public expenditure of several million euros and beneficiaries mainly of municipalities. They are actions which concern, inter alia, the supply of household composting containers, the supply of bins and other means of collection for the implementation of separate urban waste collection programmes such as brown bins and relevant wastewater, as well as awareness-raising and publicity actions, aimed at raising and informing citizens about the participation and the proper application of biowaste collection systems. The state, however, beyond the sectoral operational programme of the Ministry of the Environment, can also make use of other options at its disposal. In particular, during the period 2014-2020, additional six sectoral operational programmes and thirteen regional operational programmes are being implemented in our country. Within these programmes, resources could be directed towards actions related to the strategy to reduce pollution from plastics, particularly innovative actions to develop new technologies in the field of plastics production. Both the Minister and our leader have mentioned the new reality on the international plastic market, following China's change of strategy and its increased demands with its increased standards. In order for this to happen, however, this objective should be adopted as a key priority, so that these actions can be funded during the evaluation phase of the proposals. It is indicative that the European Commission already supports the strategy to limit plastic waste and to move to a circular economy system, among other things, will step up its support for innovation. In this direction, it will provide additional funding of EUR 100 million for developing smarter and recyclable plastic materials, improving the efficiency of recycling processes and other similar actions. Obviously, we also have to move as a country, Minister. A proposal is to motivate enterprises funded by the NSRP 2014-2020 and in particular tourist enterprises. Thus, actions which contribute to better management of waste, such as the acquisition of an eco-label, should be considered as eligible costs in individual invitations. It is mentioned that there are estimates at European Union level that 7% of the waste is produced by hotels and about 7% by 10% by 10% of it relates to plastic waste. So our country, as an excellent tourist destination, could move immediately so that the tourist industry can acquire environmental culture. I remember, when I was a mayor in the early 1990s, that we had already adopted a system with local hotel businesses, medium and large. The Municipality of Hersonissos is one of the most tourists in the country. Most hotels are major waste producers. There we had adopted a recycling programme at the source, with obvious mutual benefit. Hotels produced green actions, so they were certified by the municipality at the time. There were no other systems. These recognitions, however, were particularly valued by hotel customers and, of course, were the reduction of waste leading to the HYTA and the increase in recyclable material for the municipality for sale. Local authorities are required to conduct a responsible policy on waste management. It is not possible in 2018 that there are still municipal units in which the public or the simple visitor does not have access to recycling containers. I would like to mention - in addition to all the bad practices, which are, unfortunately, very widespread throughout Greece - in three good cases of municipalities, who have undertaken promising initiatives that produce results. The Municipality of Elefsina in collaboration with the ecological company has implemented a "door-door" information programme for integrated waste management last year and it is estimated that an increase in burial diversion of at least three hundred and six tons per year for the municipality of various materials for recycling can arise from this information programme for 2018. The Municipality of Leipson has made the integrated waste management operation on the island and has implemented recycling programs with the sorting system at the source and collection of "doors - door". The bins have been removed and the complete recycling of waste and the landfill of waste and the highest treatment of waste water has been achieved. It is an integrated management approach. The Municipality of Hersonissos concludes an innovative study "Pay as you through" and I think, Minister, that a permanent finding of decades is the best system that could reduce waste production. I would also like to refer, Minister, to a programme run by the Municipality of Hersonissos. It is a school recycling championship, in which almost all schools of all levels participate in this system. Each quarter they collect and recycle a particular material and at the end of the quarter schools and the students themselves are rewarded by dividing the amount of waste collected with the number of students. So it's also a logic that puts it in another process, culture, practice. Remind me and tell you that in those years, when we started our recycling program, our best assistant was children. When we received the first recycling waste and the first bins, we collected the children of all the educational grades or went by area and told them the whole process and logic. The parents very quickly told us: “What are you doing to us? Because at home we have ‘controllers’. Our Woe If we throw waste which should not be used in the collection of recyclables." Finally, with reference to the resources available to us, I cannot refer to the 'Philodimos' and 'Philodimos II' programme, where at the initiative of the Ministers of the Interior and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, we have a considerable amount of money available. 740 million has been approved for 2018, haven't they? - and a total of 2.3 billion with a five-year horizon to assist the EIF in their lending by the European Investment Bank, through the Deposit and Loan Fund, to finance waste management projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like another minute. I shall conclude by summing up this brief speech, addressed to the Minister, with three questions: What action will you take, Minister, to gradually adapt the plastic industry to the new data on the European Commission's decisions and restrictions? Have Community funds been sought for this purpose? My second question is this: will there be financial support for local authorities taking initiatives for green policies? Will the financial support be linked to local, cultural and religious events or sports events - has our leader also referred to - particularly during the summer season, by avoiding the use of plastic drinks, dishwashers, disposable stabbers? In other words, the linking of funding with this restriction is something that I think will work out. My third question is this. Will there be financial support from available Community tourist enterprises for the acquisition of an eco-label? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with one point, Mr President. I think this point should have concerned you or should have been concerned with you, Mr Minister, because there are huge distortions in competition and the destruction of the resources available through the fatal creation, due to an oligopolis, companies and construction companies, mainly dealing with waste management throughout Greece. This oligopoly has essentially shared the territory in regions where in the oligopolistic regions a major company has been showing up the phenomenon of contractors in the region, where for decades now all the resources allocated to waste management, waste goes to a contractor, whether we are talking about projects or supplies or the management of the various types of installations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u23	Please complete it, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u24	This process can work legally, Minister, but it is a problem both for the cost of projects and the need for projects selected each time and, of course, for the overall use of available resources and their rational disposal and, of course, for the rational and efficient planning of waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u25	Since the municipality of Leipson has been repeatedly mentioned, I must say that this is due to their good mayor, who is now not a mayor or a candidate. They don't make it automatically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u27	I have to say for historical reasons that in Tilos the mayor, the late Tasos Aliferis, has really made revolutionary changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u29	We need to see these for example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u30	The enlightened mayors put their seal on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Diaras, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. All the Members of Parliament, under the Rules of Procedure, have the floor for six minutes. The Rules of Procedure state that, Mr Dimitras, I am not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u33	Wait a minute, Mr. Deiaras. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u34	For reasons of non-existence, because you have referred to the municipalities and mentioned to me too, Mr Dannelis, I would like to say that there are indeed many initiatives in the municipalities of this type of school championship. In order not to forget and where each of us comes from, to say that the Municipality of Ioannites has also participated in such initiatives. We had a great deal of involvement from the children who were leading and who were actually trying to pass this model on to their parents. They do exist. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. I'm sorry, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u35	Here you are, Mr Deiaras, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u36	Mr Theodorakis, Mr President of the Potamio, ladies and gentlemen, I really congratulate you on today's question, because the environment unites us. Our lives and the lives of future generations can only unite all the healthy, serious and responsible people in a dialogue on how to secure it and take it further. Unfortunately, as Mr Theodorakis rightly said, the day-to-day life of the degenerated political dialogue as it takes place in the panels of television channels - these courgettes - to discuss the major problems of the planet leaves no space for any time. We take an infinite time to discuss when elections are to be held, how Moscovisi said so, whether they are called the fourth memorandum, or whether it is strict surveillance, and we are not serious about either society outside or in Parliament about the country's productive reconstruction plan in a sustainable direction. The sustainable approach, however, has specific characteristics: the first is proper management of natural resources. The planet is finite. The resources are specific. The population, although in our country and in Europe it is ageing and falling, is growing one billion every thirteen years on the planet. And because the planet is our common home, the consequences are measurable to us too. And we see it in the big waves of immigration coming this way. So we must start a lot of things from Parliament. We are - and feel this way - those who are responsible for the Greeks to make decisions on the big things that concern both the present and the future of the country. I too wrote letters the first month that a Member was elected to the President at the time of the House on recycling - there was no recycling of paper in Parliament - for plastics and cigarettes. I didn't get a reply. I have repeated a letter to the current President. Looks like it's really hard. And many colleagues reacted when they learned that I raised the issue many times not to smoke in the House building. It seems that we have very bad habits and we find it difficult for Greeks to expel them. So we're allies in the big deal about the life of the planet. This is where 'think planetaryly, act locally' is. Everyone sees his country, see the municipality in which he lives, the neighborhood in which he lives. And take individual responsibility. Don't transfer everything to the state. Consider what we received from our grandparents and how we will deliver it to our grandchildren. In my village next to Evino, we were watering our animals and drinking ourselves. And the finest water we had was the water of the river. From Evnos now the top part comes to Athens and with the other not the animals even want to water my forgivers there from the river. Can we see the rivers of Attica? How was Kifissus and Ilissus, and how did they get there? Can we see the seas? Thermaic, the Corinthian? Can we see the groundwater? This is where Mr Papadopoulos was. At Thessaloniki Campos it was thirty, forty, fifty meters, and now we have reached five hundred meters, and the aquifer is constantly downgrading. We therefore have two aspects of the global and economic issues: one is pollution of the environment and the other is the proper management of natural resources. We can't waste everything, like we waste it. And this is a general big issue that will be addressed if we look at the model of life and the model of production - how it is produced - and the model of consumption. I remember in the 1970s reading the book of Galbraith entitled "The society of abundance". Since then, Galbraith has noted the problems and that the system of false needs is creating. We are chasing these false needs, we are destroying the planet, but in the end we are ruining the very essence of quality of life. We therefore need to see the same model of production and consumption. We have wasted so many goods, such as energy, wood, paper, water, underground waters, as I said, lignite, metals. We're burying them at the HYTPs and the HYTPs. Plastic bags: We will be judged by one and for our behavior in everything else. We all know that to dissolve the plastic, it takes five hundred years. Yet the Corinthian is full of plastic bags. They throw them in the streams, they get there or they throw them directly. The first is the civil lawsuit. The responsibility lies with both the business and the state and the municipalities and each of us individually. Bottles, cutlery, glasses. You swim in clear waters and the cup comes over you! We therefore need to take measures. The government has indeed taken steps. We have to say it. Change the national management plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u37	You've got a second. Can we add the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u38	I'll take it now, Mr. President. We should add the time. So the government has taken steps. He made the recycling law, including the measures on the plastic bag. He made the law for the circular economy. The intentions seem to be. He made a new national waste management plan with another logic. However, we must go from legislation to practice. The important role - which must be understood - in the recycling of waste and plastic bags, is taken by the municipalities. We must be clear about the legislation and mechanisms that we must also give incentives and counter-incentives. It is foreseen by law that we see whether the fines will ever be implemented to those who do not make recycling. Will we ever give incentives and money to those who achieve the recycling targets in each municipality? So we have the legislative framework. We have strengthened the National Recycling Agency. He'll also have resources now. It is estimated that about six million had only from the plastic bag. He will therefore make it available for his own purpose. So we have ways. We must act in particular. I, Mrs. Undersecretary of Education, say that this environmental education we have for our children is not enough. We need to add time so that all students, not only those who go to environmental education centres, etc., take management experience, but also learn key issues of a scientific approach to issues of sustainable management of natural resources. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u39	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Katsafandos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the restriction of the use of plastic packaging, beyond being a top environmental issue, can and should be a common area of political understanding and exercise. I have heard that from all the Members who have spoken before, but it is only enough to do so in practice and not to remain in the words. Mr President, I would remind you that the speaker had tabled a question on the same subject since November. So recently, ladies and gentlemen, a survey of Community funding was carried out on the range of plastic packaging used by a non-governmental organisation, Seas at Risk. According to this survey, in our country at least sixty-six million plastic bottles of water are consumed at least sixty million, two million plastic cups of coffee, nine hundred million squid, thirty-seven million plastic dishes of food or sweet, and nine billion cigarettes and stitches, which have plastic fibers. Research is a first attempt to record the extent of the problem of disposable plastics in the countries of the European Union and is considering the use of some of the most popular categories of disposable products, such as those I have mentioned. However, in the absence of analytical data, the study was made on the basis of available data per product in those countries, reducing to the rest based on population or per capita income. This means, unfortunately, for Greece that these results are much worse, as you can see, because they do not include the twenty million tourists who visit our country who use these plastic devices. GREENPEACE also tried a few months ago to gather data on the same product group, using data on the consumption of coffee in our country outside: three hundred and fifteen thousand sacks of coffee a year, which means a billion 300 million coffee. These are data from the sales of coffee takeaway. It concluded that more than three hundred million disposable plastic glasses are used annually, about one million glasses a day. You understand what all these figures mean by a country which, unfortunately, does not recycle. Unfortunately, the performance of our country in terms of recycling is disappointing, as the recycling and recovery rate moves marginally to 16%, when the European average exceeds 70%. In particular, 15.81 kg of waste per inhabitant is recycled in Greece, when the European average is 10 kg. We are in the 20th second place for twenty-eight countries of the European Union. It is an extremely negative performance, which demonstrates the delay we have in this area. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly where we should concentrate. The improvement of our country's performance in the field of recycling goes through the reform of the regulatory and operational framework, in order to strengthen recycling infrastructure and also to change the way in which Greek citizens approach the very idea of recycling. You brought, Minister, a bill a few months ago on recycling which we, New Democracy, had all the good will to vote in favour of. Unfortunately, however, rather than being a targeted bill, which would be the product of dialogue, study and understanding, the elements that characterized it were the vagueness and bureaucratic strangles that make it impossible today to implement it. So I would like to ask you, Minister, and answer your dentistry: nine months after the adoption of this law, what has all of this been done? How many of the ministerial decisions that were required were adopted? Has the bill taken into account the island regions, which we have mentioned in particular? I fear no, because there is no provision for the islands and especially for the small islands, where the amount of recyclable waste produced is not large, and there is a clear question of costs, technical difficulties in creating infrastructure and transport problems, as they evacuate costs and constitute incomprehensible any activity in the field of recycling. So what is proven is the great pathogen that they face in the field of application. I will make a brief reference to the measure on plastic bags and the imposition of the environmental charge. It is estimated that around EUR 4 million have been collected to date, in the first three months. Mr. Dimitras said so too. The question, however, is whether it has been decided on how this money will be used by the EEAN. What actions will be exploited? Or will they keep ponding? It would be useful to have an answer today. There is another question: Is there an assessment and an update of the environmental charge measure to see whether and how much it adds but also where there are gaps? I am afraid, Mr Desama, that there is no answer for that either. Because the measure is not just about supermarkets. I'd tell you that his performance in other catering shops is too low. We all move out in society and we all see what's going on. However, even limited by 65% the use of plastic bags in all shops, we will go to a figure of thirty-five plastic bags per inhabitant, while the European average for 2019 is estimated to be ninety plastic bags per inhabitant. Ladies and gentlemen, recycling is not a matter that is governed by laws alone. The law sets the frame. But, as a society to manage wisely the limited resources we have and to recycle, it is a matter of understanding things, it is a way of life. And how can that change? It changes with information, awareness, education and inclusion of programmes in the educational system, providing incentives for citizens and businesses. But what have you done in three and a half years? And that is what we would like an answer to. Because we think you've done nothing. Not only have you done nothing, but you have canceled what has been done, especially in the waste sector. You received a framework for integrated waste management, and a number of major urban solid waste management projects had been launched with the participation of the private sector. Let me remind you that in 2014 there were thirteen PPP projects ready and canceled by SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Unfortunately, the country also pays your ideas in this area. The first thing you did as a government was cancel the construction of four mixed waste treatment plants in Gender, Ano Liosia, Graphic and Keratea with their respective landfill sites. At the moment, while you know that the Ghost CYTA is expected to be overrun in early 2019 and will be unable to accept other waste, you have done nothing. So we are obviously leading to a deadlock, and that is your responsibility. So the country needs an integrated policy, a realistic policy on waste management. We should adopt models and best practices applied in other European Union countries to separate materials by sorting at source and by household recycling. At the same time, particular attention should be paid to the use of organic waste with incentives to be given to citizens and businesses, but also to measures to limit the day-to-day products of use, as much of them unfortunately end up in the sea. Emphasis should be placed on the three-fold "reduction, re-entry, recycling" as well as on the principles of the circular economy, which are the main axes of the new productive model of sustainable development. However, these projects and the infrastructures to be created cannot be done without attracting private capital and without the public-private partnership. I hope you will understand this at some point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and it is not another area of your own delusion. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that the environment is obviously not of color and obviously there are no ideologies. It's a good thing we have to take care of. It's a good we have to deliver to the next generations in a much better situation than where we found it. But what needs to be done and can be done is by conciliation, by dialogue, by working together, to take advantage of the best practices applied throughout the world, so that we can provide the next generation with the environment that it really deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u41	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Association, Mr Kefalidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to what has been said so far in this Chamber and I think it is a common place for everyone. We must now stop the fine ideas reports, we must move to substantial and targeted initiatives. This is an excellent opportunity today, through the question of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, to discuss problems that are escaping from the small world of Greece, which concern the international community more widely and the way, attitudes, attitudes with which we have so far brought things. It is nothing new or something original that the use of plastics, whether plastic bags or straws, water bottles, etc., is within the culture and within the minds of the consumer, of whatever consumer. And that's because it's a very cheap and very easy to use product. Because, however, it is practical and easy, it has become very popular in the course of the years. The figures, the figures, the statistics are nightmareous anyway. But I would like to focus on some measurements made by the Hellenic Maritime Research Centre and tell you that they are shocking. They heard inside the Chamber. We are talking about an annual rate of deposition of plastics on the beaches of the country, ranging from 200 kg to a tonne per kilometre of beach. Imagine a country like Greece that has fourteen thousand kilometres of coastline. She's the largest of the Mediterranean. Of these 70% - when you hear the percentage is shocked - comes from plastic bottles of water, refreshments, film packs in which the chips, the "chankfoud", the chips, coffee glasses and plastic bags are usually made. In fact, researchers find plastic even a thousand meters deep into the sea. As far as, they say, the surface of the Greek seas is concerned, they float about three hundred and fifty thousand microplates per square kilometre. To make it very simple: plastics drown our seas. And if we continue to use them and to fly them at the same rate and at the same rate as huge quantities, then the situation for the environment will be irreversible, with what this entails for our health. I have heard the Minister, and in theory there is this new strategy of the European Union that was adopted in Genoa, which has passed us and we are already in the face of a new reality. This new strategy is part of the transition to a more effective circular economy and focuses on a radical change in the way products are designed, produced, used and recycled. There is also an extremely ambitious objective, in 2030, for only recyclable plastic packaging to be available on the European Union market, for disposable plastics to be reduced and for microplastics to be restricted. Very nice European announcements, very important, but we also need a serious preparation - I would say - at national level. The plans, proposals, ideas, strategies, are good, but - always this great 'but' - what is going on in practice? What's going on in our country? What happens to all of this in Greece? And not to go too far: we here in the Greek Parliament are recycled? That is a question that, in fact, I think very appropriately went through everyone's mind. How accessible are recycling containers to the citizen? Because we are voting in favour of the laws that we are voting on to protect the environment, but we ourselves must set an example. And practically what does that mean? To make recycling a daily habit. As I came from my office on the street of the Parliament, I noticed - and for too long I have been trying to put this in my head and realize it - that at the most central point in the country, which is Syntagma Square, there are no recycling cans. Do you know that the only blue bin there is in Hermos? So what recycling are we talking about? In our country from the beginning of the year, the law on the special fee for the use of the plastic bag has been applied. And indeed, the restriction was up to 50%. I will not talk about the delay in the directive that has been in 2015 and it took us three years to align ourselves with it, but I would like to ask you: practically what does it mean to have voted on this directive? That suddenly as Greek consumers we gained environmental awareness, or that the state through the relevant ministries has adapted the institutional framework of recycling to minimise environmental burdens? I'm just going to tell you that none of the two is true. Unfortunately, the answer is both negative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. The only solution, I think, to act as a country to rehabilitate plastics and to adopt a substantial environmental awareness, is to change standards, change mentality through information, but above all through education. That's why school and our kids can, I think, show us the way. There are many bright examples. The Minister who left said some of them. I stayed in one that gave me a special impression, because it shows that in these little ages things are very simple. I want to talk to you about the school recycling marathon that took place within two weeks, concerned four thousand students, fifteen primary schools, a municipality of Attica and listen to numbers. They recycled nine hundred and thirty-five pounds of paper, equivalent to the rescue of seventeen trees, recycled five hundred four pounds of plastic made of lids and bottles, equivalent to four hundred and twenty pounds of harmful gases and fourteen pounds of aluminium that, okay, have no air burden. When, at the end of the day, the children bear this environmental habit at home, when they become this brilliant example, when they become these "Wild Horses", I think everyone in the family will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Kefalidou, let's finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u44	We are few, Mr President, and we are discussing something important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u45	It doesn't matter. Time must be observed. The Bureau has given you about two minutes and eight minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u46	You're right. Thank you. And now we're coming to the field of education. Yes and environmental education offices also have environmental education courses. But they must stop being fragmentary and individual. We have to stop feeling that we're done with our duty as soon as the school bell hits and the kids are gone. We cannot confine ourselves to circulars and bureaucratic processes, we cannot only rely on inspired teachers who do their job properly. We don't need to find the wheel at all times from the beginning. Examples and good practices exist in all countries and our country. We certainly need political will, which is a prerequisite for the existence of legislative initiatives and substantial cooperation between the relevant ministries and local authorities. We certainly need a new national waste management plan and not the well-known graphics: memorial - antimony, how we collect garbage, why and memorials become and the garbage choke us. So what does he need? Incentives, monitoring, rewarding and all that with the ultimate aim of experiential approach, information, awareness and activation to prepare us, and our children and us, to be tomorrow's active citizens, but also environmentally sensitive, because to change the country, we must first change our minds and habits. And because this isn't easy, let's think a little ahead, let's think about what country we'll be delivering to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. The Houseary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Aivatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a statement from the Archipelago Marine Protection Institute, which related to the outbreak of sea turtles deaths in the Aegean Sea, and not only, many awards, and was confirmed that pieces of plastic were found in the stomach and the other gastrointestinal system of turtles. In other words, death was partly related to plastic pollution. The same was found in dolphin deaths. In fact, in one case a large part, almost one metre, was found in the esophagus of this marine mammal. This, of course, demonstrates the need for a direct restriction on the use of plastics and related synthetic substances. There should be full information for citizens, environmental awareness already since school age, which is done to a certain extent, but it should be intensified. The key, in our view, is recycling at source, but also with incentives. A bold regulation requires that certain disposable plastic products be removed, but that they may be replaced by products, for example, pressurised paper. I would also like to point out the disastrous industrial practices which should be struck, because the state tolerates them. Thousands of tons of plastics and other waste on the roads eventually end up at sea. In our country, innovative methods for plastics such as gasification must be applied. With gasification, or recovering fuel from plastics, heating, Minister, plastics, which leads to industrial gas release and can be produced with electricity or reproducible fuel. Maybe with the report that's going to follow, I'm ruining this nice atmosphere that's created. It seems that all parties are in the same direction. Minister, perhaps you do not know, my constituency is Corfu. The Corfiot people strongly complain about your absence. It believes that you are carrying out your duties ex cathedra and you are not coming to Corfu facing the major issue with the KYTA in Lefkimi. Your behaviour is combined with another anti-parliamentary behaviour, which I will show by the way. I have here your "response" to a question I have asked you. You are not answering the substance of the matter and you are saying that you are abstaining from answering questions and petitions as well as from the current questions by Members of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons. I would like to tell you that this attitude is also unparliamentary and unconstitutional. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present a post and a photograph from HYTA Lefkimis, Minister, who had become a lake during the excavations, because there are groundwater. There's a waterproof horizon underneath. I would remind you that the Prime Minister in 2013, in the summer, had come to Lefkimmi and said: "In the illegal HYTAD, no napkin will fall". I therefore put these two documents in the Minutes as well. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you are trying, I repeat operating ex cathedra, to convert Lefkim to a new Temple. The IGME had stated that there is shallow water supply that communicates with wells and pollutes the aqueous horizon, the crops. The then expropriations were the result of interoperable. This HYTAS, in Lefkimmi, in Mesochia, is essentially in a residential area, it is illegal. You should therefore go directly to the point of giving the 'present', because your behaviour is seen as political cowardice. I don't want to believe it or adopt it. I would remind you, however, that Mr Tsironis your predecessor had told me on a timely basis that he would come to the polypath Templeon and Lefkimmi and then a few days later in the reshape was replaced by you. On 26 June, the launch of the presentation of powerful selected police forces in the region of Lefkimia took place. There have been various illegalities, but the mandate is yours, it is a government, it is not the police officers who are neither the business leaders nor the ordinary officers or the police. It is therefore a central government option. There was a chemical drop in women in children, in elderly people, in flashing bombs, and of course SYRIZA was absent. I'll remind you, maybe you know... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me as much time as you have given the previous speaker. It is very important and you will allow me to exhaust it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u49	Look, all matters are important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Don't interrupt me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u51	I am just telling you this: that the topical question has a specific subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you for your tolerance. It's directly enclosed. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u53	You raise a specific issue - your right - but the Bureau is obliged to remind you that we are having a specific debate today on the basis of the timely question of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u54	Yes, sir. That's right. Well, then. It is a matter of relevance. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u55	So please confine yourself to your report on the topical question and be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u56	You've already intimidated me, in the medical sense of the term, a minute. Because you're a doctor, too. Explosive mechanism capable of power was fired at the Lefkimi Police Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u57	I don't know if I'm a doctor. What do you mean, Mr. Aivatidis? The professional or any other quality need not be mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u58	I said, Mr President, that you've intercepted me in the sense of the medical term.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u59	I am here as Vice-President of the House and I am running a procedure, and I would ask you very much to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. The phenomena, therefore, such as the drop of an explosive mechanism at the Lefkimi Police Department, as the President of the Kirkra Police Officers said, reminds us of Exarchy. So I urge you to come to Corfu. You should review this obsessive attitude of yours to the operation of the HYTAS, follow what you promised. Immediately leave the police forces, the special units of the police, which have also been transferred from other areas to Corfu. And there is a consensus, because the only way to resolve the matter temporarily is to transfer the waste to Ioannina. Soon, as a matter of fact, the factory will work there. Make legislative arrangements to be transferred there for a year and a half, until there is an integrated management plant in Corfu. Public health is being overlooked, Minister. Your attitude is the torture of the drop for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as far as Corfu is concerned, by which you - having imposed the presence of police forces - want to make a purely anti-grassy and environmentally harmful political exercise. So come to Corfu to solve the matter. Contact the residents, with "Alechimon", and proceed to a solution for your own good and your own but mainly of Corfu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u61	The interventions of the Parliamentary representatives have been completed, so we are now going to the circle of Members of Parliament, those of whom they wish to take second place. From what I'm told, only Mr. Mavrosh will answer. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Only I will be one of the honourable Members and I will be relatively brief. First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their very fruitful contribution to this debate and also the Ministers. I would just like to raise two or three points. One has to do with the issue of environmental education. I listened very carefully to what Mrs. Jufi said. What I have to point out is that the issue of environmental education should be supported not only in the face of certain illiterate teachers and teachers, but in the context of the organised educational process in various ways that have begun to take place. We should intensify that. In relation to what Mr Famellos said about the debate that is taking place in the European Commission on the European Plastics Directive, etc., a good idea which we propose - to propose, if he wishes - is a joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment with the Standing Committee on Production and Trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u63	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u64	To hold a special meeting, ad hoc, for this purpose, so that there can be a more comprehensive cross-party position that will make our country's every attitude more robust. To close with the issue of garbage that the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, also raised. We need to leave NIMBY, Not In My Back Yard, 'not in my garden', and go a little on solutions that exist with integrated urban solid waste management technologies. Especially here in Attica, we think we can no longer hide the garbage underneath the Ghost carpet, which has already been saturated. With a scientific, cross-party consensus, we must propose things, we must propose solutions, because the country needs them, Greece needs them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you to Mr Mavrotas, with whom the speeches of the river are completed. Before giving the floor to Mr Famello, allow me a statement to the Department. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidation of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Executives G.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executioners of the Marie (Marie) Wearer respectively." Mr Famelos has the floor for his dentistry. You have a right to tritology, but you will obviously close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u66	Yeah, there probably won't be anything else. That is why I was thinking of putting in place a position, Mr President, and completing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u67	Yeah. The Parliamentary spokesman from the river will not be placed. So you'll close up, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are having a very important debate - I said it in the first place - and I will bring back some basic starting points. The first and most important is the prevention plan. I think we should start from there, because we are hearing things about even the NIMBY, which Mr Mavrosh said. But waste prevention and the risk prediction of waste produced is the first and most important step. This presupposes or - if you will - suggests a change of attitude to our consumer habits. We are, however, talking about consumer standards, which do not only change with anti-incentives. They do not change, that is, only by regulation on the part of the economy. Other arrangements are needed, which the cyclical economy can help us to complete. We must, however, be very clear about them here too. Here I would like to tell you that there is an important issue. I don't know if you've seen it. We, because we are discussing the plastics industry, are reintroducing it here in the debate. It's not as easy as you said from Stepma, everybody, in relation to production and industry. That is why I am going to ask - as I have said and you have also accepted - that it is interesting for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which will meet with the Committee on Production and Trade and that the industry should come too. Because that's where the big changes have to be made. And because the Greek industry claims - let us prove it here, we say we call them, because we will do the day in the report - a special role in the European market, we want to hear it. We do the same for other Greek branches and we very much want to do that to support them. However, the debate here has been very much linked to the issues of waste management, which I did not mention very much at the outset, and you will allow me to say a few things here in my second place. The solution is very simple. We want better screening at source and more recycling. It is something that we have adopted - Mr Dimitras said so - since 2015. Because, within the major changes at the time of the negotiations, the memorandum and the referendum, we have made a new national plan, which was for the first time in line with the European directive of 2008, and have prioritised the screening at the source, which is now time to implement it. Why - may I say to you - ladies and gentlemen, such changes do not take place in one day, nor can anyone tell me 'why did you not legislate yesterday for it to be implemented today'. So, after too many changes - which are all regional projects across Greece with strategic environmental impact studies, the new recycling law, KLISTENIS, L.4555/2018, which is responsible for CVO's responsibilities - is now coming to the end of 2018 at the source of the organic. What we have said, then, is that the big change will be the sorting at the source of the organic compulsory as of the end of 2018, to apply in 2019 to all municipalities. And we have asked the Solid Waste Management Bodies and the ROPs of all of Greece to have organic units in all regions in 2019, so that municipalities can go. There are three municipalities in Athens that, because they have an organic unit - Attica is one of the few regions it has - they have a 1/3 reduction in the management of municipal fees. It's very important. And you know, when the organic comes out of the mixer's bin, then the mixer's bin up to the recycling unit can go. It is a metaphor that we are discussing very often. The Strategic Prevention Plan also took place in 2015, as did the waste projects on a route since 2015. So we came afterward, in 2017 - if I'm not mistaken - and we made the first decision of the Governing Council on economic policy for the circular economy. Now her consultation is over. What is envisaged in the circular economy? It is planned to remove bureaucratic obstacles. It is at least thirty the institutional actions envisaged, in order to allow even the transport of by-products, to be used in another industry as a raw material. All this is in there and we've predicted it. And we are also lucky - if you will - because we can present them directly to you in the interesting question you have asked. But there are also economic tools and incentives. What does that mean? For example, in September, an EUR 80 million measure for the Greek environmental industry is being launched in EPEE. Because it is not only about telling the citizen'recycling', it is about having the industry that will receive it, separate it, exploit much cleaner currents - I wish we could - and create a Greek product. The third is the action of knowledge. You started training. I also think that knowledge as research is both important as arms. Because we have very important programmes in the "Research - Innovation - Creating" that must be put into production, however. We are therefore creating a circular economy forum with open data, i.e. with open data, so that every businessman, a professional, scientist, can build a job or a COMPA around the issue. Of course, we have the governance of the project where I think it is important that there is a permanent Interministerial Secretariat for Cyclic Economy, which has already been in office. In the national planning the currents of separate sorting have been in place and a question has been raised - has Mr Katsafandos, who is not here, of course - "What have you been doing since then?" Institutional acts’. You will only allow me to say titles because time is limited. In Law 4496, the Alternative Management Act, there are now specific specifications for the reduction of packaging waste. In the same law there is an obligation on producers to collect their packaging materials and thus to recycle them within Greece. In the same law, too, there are specifications for reducing the environmental footprint of packaging. In Law 4496 and in Law 4555, there is a local project. There was no competence for the municipalities to draw up a local waste plan, because we are being "played and smart" - forgive me for that expression. The responsibilities of the municipalities also at Law 4555, at 'Classheni', were clear, because, you know, we are talking about recycling and the municipalities in Greece did not have the power to make a Green Point, transhipment, composting, and then we are talking about a circular economy. They've been cleared to Law 4555. And the organic was forced to be sorted out. In pricing policy, which is also completed with "CLITHEN", the "pay as far as I fly" will be applied, which is also in the sense of prevention. However, it is important - and you mentioned all the other activities - that with Law 4496, which was passed in November, all the public meeting places and the tourism industry should implement screening plans by November this year at the source of clean four materials, and therefore the plastic one separately. Also, ships, airports and large businesses, with more than a hundred employees and obviously Parliament will have separate currents by November, it is legislated, we have already done so. So it's not something I said just about your question. In the same law, Law 4496, ecodesign is now compulsory. And on that basis - Mr Katsafandos says that nothing has happened with Law 4496 - all recycling systems have already submitted new service plans, all of them! This has already been done within the first six months. Wasn't the plastic bag in Law 4496 and was it applied? And he even made a big mistake. He said four million euros. It's wrong. It's 6 million. The Greeks used two hundred pieces of fine plastic bag in the first quarter, all of them announced. Of these resources, everyone will be given new ways of transporting consumer products to the citizens. The state won't hold a single euro! Mr Katsafandos said - and unfortunately he was critical - about Mr. 4496, who was one of the first big assholes of the New Democracy. The rapporteur said 'yes' at the first meeting, and Adonis Georgiadis called and changed it in plenary, and you supported it and I remember it. So EEAN has already served ten people by September. You were worried then about the executives, you asked. There has been a ministerial decision on the Staff Regulations, because you asked me which ministerial decision would come out. And the Act of Minister for Recruitment, like the parametering of fines, came out and you had put it back then how the fines would be calculated. It's all over. Of course, all the systems have been submitted, they have made plans that we are considering in operational terms. The bag, however, is not only those resources which are collected from the large supermarkets and from the retail chains. The most important thing we have already done and implemented, but we want its results, is that barcode enters the bag and bag producers and bag dealers enter the National Producer Register, so the obligations of the packaging producers. So we will also censor the people's market and the stand for plastic bags and at the end of the year we will have numbers, to say where Greece is going and what percentage it is. Now we're at 75% of the big chains that we quantified. It is important here that we have made two major initiatives, one with Thera and one with Tino on the islands. You asked about the islands. It's a big campaign at the bus stops for the bag. We shared ten thousand pieces from the Recycling Agency. I want to welcome the initiative of the National Trade Confederation. I personally took Mr Crockidis and thanked him for sharing fifty thousand bags on the first day of the discounts and we have to talk about it. It was an initiative. We didn't do it together, well done by the producers themselves. In the Green Points, there was no competence of the municipalities and environmental licensing. We did it with L.4447. Law 4483 also legislated on the revenues of LGBs from recycling, to sell plastics directly to the municipalities. The Green Fund pays a new initiative - I think it is the MEDITERRANEAN SOS network - for public fountains. What does that mean? There will be taps, and that too restricts the packaging of a plastic bottle. Already, I think three have been placed in the Municipality of Athens. It is a good initiative funded by the Green Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u69	It is European too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u70	It's a very important initiative. I told you about the PAENEC. What I have to say is that I mentioned three hundred CIDs at the end of 2014. Today, HSDs are fifty and there is a statement from the "Philodime", 25 million, to close this year the last HSDs in Greece - we have 10 million ready - and will be called in September for local waste plans from the municipalities. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. It operates the Electronic Waste Register, which is a new institutional initiative with too many companies registered - it is thirty thousand, if I am not mistaken - and the National Producer Register and we have started with the Daphne network a debate on forty-four islands for the circular economy. It was a month ago in my office, like they knew you were going to ask the question. Obviously, there is no OGA pending, but if anyone thinks that the recycling of the plastic packaging is at 38% today and was at 30% three years ago - it went up a little bit, but we are still far away - getting to 55% or 90%, which we want for bottles is a lot of work. This work can also be done through waste management. So where are we here - to close with that, Mr President - why did a question arise? I shall refer a little to the tourist industry, because your parliamentary representative put it. We already have a thousand and thirty-sixty modernisation plans and seven thousand new tourist-media projects, which have a public spending of EUR 1.2 billion, where the environmental footprint is now an evaluation criterion. This is because you have asked for what is happening in the tourism industry. I'm going to close up on waste. The fact is that we have received a one-way in our country, I would say, negative. Let the crisis and bankruptcy at the moment wait a little while, along with the debate we are having, because there was a bankruptcy here too. What did we have? We only had HYTA, burial, and PPP monoway. I will not now have you a theoretical debate on PPPs, but beware of what was wrong with the PPPs, along with all the other financially. They had the logic "take it away from my eyes, don't see it", i.e. I don't manage it as a citizen, as a society, as a municipality, despite you, as a private person, and manage it as you want so that I don't have any trouble". That was the big disadvantage they had. We have chosen to make the big change with national planning and what have we done practically? We got and chose about two hundred million to be in the recycling operations at the source, i.e. we have fifty million in the FEDER and a hundred and fifty million in the regions. We have already asked for the auction last week, a month ago for the Green Points, the organic coffee bins, the fragmentation of branches and the transfer of these materials to composting plants, with little composting. This is the most crucial tool that we need to implement in the next six months, and that is why some initiatives on plastic may be delayed and why the directive is not over - to be honest - but when we have to change consumer function and waste management with organics for the second half of 2018, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a great effort and we have to put the burden there. We also need to prepare ourselves for the debate you have said in the House and in the European Union. At the same time, a seven hundred million euro project programme is being implemented in national planning for units. I mention characteristics: Hersonissos Crete, Amari, Paranesti Alexandroupolis, Serres, Chania, Thebes, Milos, Leros, Lefkada, Naxos, South Rhodes, Kea, Nafypattos, Elias, Peloponnese. All of this is modern waste plants sorted in, but after the source sorting and we have been calling the hundreds of fifty million already for Athens for over a month and a half if I'm not mistaken. I say this because it was heard that there was no progress in Athens and that was not the case. The design has already been changed here, and there has already been a notice for two processing units in Attica, a hundred and fifty million, but in order not to consume much time for Attica, we have already committed ourselves - I have proposed this to the Committee on the Environment - that once the House has opened up after the Summer Sections, the first meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Parliament will be for the units of Attica. I have promised that we will also ask the relevant body - because it is self-government that this responsibility should have announced the locations and that the debate should be completed, because we do not delay, in my view, with the changes that need to be made. But be careful. On the one hand, we want self-government, which will be responsible and ask it to prove that it can manage the waste - it also wants self-government - and, on the other hand, where there is a problem, we have the logic: 'no, in my yard and come on, Minister, to solve the problem'. There is no possibility. The Corfu case is a case in which we have a project built with European resources, where the European Union is asking us back to money, and a CID, for which we have already convicted the European Court of Justice and the European Union is asking us for other money, and at the same time, the local society, which has often met with us at the Ministry, does not want to find the solution within its own limits and does not want to believe in recycling or sorting at the source or composting, if what has been filed here in the House is sincere, that is to say to want to leave waste outside Corfu, when we all say that waste is also the wealth of a region and is also new jobs. We will support self-government, solve the problem. There is neither the good 'father' nor the bogeyman who goes or leaves to solve problems, even though the Secretary-General for Waste Coordination has been to Corfu many times to solve the problem on the spot. But if anyone underestimates all society and all the institutions and all Greek scientists and environmental auditors and wants the Minister to see every project, I think we will have failed as a society. We must make a strong administration and not replace the administration. On the other hand, however, there is also an essential issue of democracy. Waste management is an essential issue of democracy, and we in this House must discuss this. We must allow the citizen and producer to participate in this debate, but with the agreement, if you will, that this debate will lead to changes. In other words, we cannot have this debate simply on moral terms or on astonishing terms, to create impressions. This debate must be held by the fact that the environmental aspect will be an essential aspect of our decisions and personal decisions. When we talk about ecodesign, it obviously means that anything we choose in our lives and as a product has these characteristics. When we talk, if you want, about sustainable development, it means that both the functions of the House and the functions of the municipality and the functions of production will have the same standard. And we're not just asking the other one, obviously, to make these choices, and that's why we're gonna have to start at home. This is why it is very important in all local affairs first to solve the problems of our region and then to discuss changes in other regions, in productive structures. In other words, we must discuss the efficiency of energy, the environment, the recycling of the ministries, the parliament, our home and then ask industry to make the relevant changes. We will do this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We will obviously do it together, because in fact the debate we are having at the moment with the Greek Industry, the Plastic Industry, is quite important and critical and affects us all. In any case, I think that the only thing we cannot blame for during this three-year period is that we have not done much incisions and efforts. Perhaps a disadvantage is that we have opened up many issues, which may create a positive shock, but which may also have negative reflections. In other words, there are too many obligations, there are too many changes that need to be made. And this to society, towards self-government, towards production, can create an inertia, because of the shock of major changes, which is why we need to have a great deal of cooperation on these issues. We, therefore, have chosen to close, if you like, the CID cycle - recycling - sorting at the source, by the end of 2018, so that we can put the changes in the circular economy that we have already institutionalised in the application of 2019. So we will not continue this debate together and I want, once again, to thank you for the initiative, because you have opened a real field. It's a real political field. That's how our society changes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on No 1/17-7-2018 is closed on the subject: "Rehabilitation of plastics... if not now, when?" Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-20-S1-commons.u72	With the consent of the Department at 12.43' the meeting is closed for Tuesday 24 July 2018 at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
