ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-2-2018 authorisation, the minutes of the OH's meetings, Monday, 26 February 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: “the establishment of the University of Western Attica and other provisions”.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will read you two communications on 'Governmental change'. First communication: "Mr. President, we have the honour to beg as you announcing to the House that by 20/27-2-2018 a presidential decree, published in the FEK 35/27-2-2018 (v. A), the resignation submitted by the Municipality of Papadimitriou of the Kingdom was accepted from the position of Minister of Economy and Development and was exempted from his duties. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u2	Second communication: "Mr. President, we have the honour to beg as you announcing in this House that by 19/26-2-2018 a presidential decree, published in the FEK 32/26-2-2018 (v. A), the resignation submitted by Urania Antonopoulou of Antonio from the position of Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, was accepted and was exempted from its duties. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, due to the postponement of the debate, at the request of the General Secretariat of the Government, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union’, the report of the Scientific Council was not distributed in order to be distributed when the postponed draft law came back to discussion. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured at the premises of the House of Greeks, fifteen students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the 2nd professional high school of Sivitanidium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 1 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1144/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation of incurable diseases into the Singleboard for the Identification of Disability Rates". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1135/22-2-2018, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Dora Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “The Government “greatens” the Ionian - Risks in the new Marine Zones Agreement with Albania.” 3. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place. Cesarean’. 4. The 1163/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' press distribution agency. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1145/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Evangelia Vagonakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures to improve the tactics program in the Regional Unit of Chania". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Operation of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" Pyonia’. 3. The 1150/26-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antoniou Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, entitled "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje". 4. The 1164/27-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Union - Rural Partnership”. 5. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 6. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 7-H Η by number 1106/16-2-2018 a timely question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Low-up loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA ANTIME ADVANTAGE to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area "Arta - Preveza". Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Constitution of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V. `, "Edison International S.p.A.." and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the grant of the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea." Only discussion and vote on the principle of the law, Articles and all of the draft law: "Undertaking of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGEAN AEGEAN ANONYMATIC CONTRIBUTION FOR RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONDRAKE to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial region of "Itono-Carnania"". Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA ANONYMINARY ACCOUNT to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the terrestrial region "Northwest Peloponnese". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 February 2018 to discuss the draft legislation at a meeting. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore agreed. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law the four lease agreements for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in corresponding areas with the corresponding penalties are ratified and gained. First, ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN AEGEAN ANONYYMATIC CONVENTION OF RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONTRACTS to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial area of "Itono-Carnania"’. Secondly, "Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRIC ANONYME to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the land area "Arta-Preveza". Third: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRIC ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Northwest Peloponnese’. Fourthly: "Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V. `, "Edison International S.p.A.." and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the grant of the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea." For all contracts, the same regulatory framework applies, the general import rules, the objectives, the benefits and the importance of the project and the main articles of the project, which are thirty-four. The first three contracts referred to above have been signed in Athens on 25 March 2017 and the fourth one in Athens on 31 October 2017. The signature of these lease agreements is followed by the lease agreements for the Katokolo, Ioannina and the Patraiko Gulf, west. It is a continuation of the - important - history of research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons in our country. These lease agreements are a significant and positive development for our country, as the process of exploring hydrocarbons is further developed in the Greek territory, with the aim of creating a strong productive sector, that of hydrocarbons, for the development of the Greek economy. The creation of this sector is expected to offer strong economic compensatory benefits for local communities and at the same time significant public revenues for the state budget. Local economies in Epirus and Western Greece will receive direct and indirect benefits, both by creating jobs and creating a need for the supply of products due to the additional purchasing power of the persons involved in the construction and operation of the projects. In this development and with data models for the exploitation of fossil fuels, what is our priority, as our absolute benefit, is strict compliance with environmental legislation and the protection of the natural environment as a unique and irreplaceable national capital. The second benefit arises from the significant potential public revenues in the state budget, as well as the new technological and scientific potential that will be incorporated into the domestic production potential. The third concerns local communities and the compensatory benefits to them in jobs, investment opportunities, economic and development prospects. The company ‘Energy Aegean S.A.’ has been selected as a leaser and agent of the first lease contract, the company ‘ELPE SA’ of the second and third lease agreements, which were made in accordance with the competitive procedure for applying for interest provided for in Law 2289/1995 and amended by Article of Law 4001/2011, including European Directive 94/22/EC of the European Community. The first three lease agreements were opened by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Manatis, with D1/A/2891/31-7-2014, on an international tender notice for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the land areas of Arta, Preveza, Atolocarnania and the Northwest Peloponnese. They were invited by the Ministry of Energy, the Environment and Climate Change, natural and legal persons meeting the requirements of the invitation, to submit an offer for the grant of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the three abovementioned land areas of western Greece. In the fourth contract, concerning the maritime area 2 in Ionion, the syndicate scheme ‘TOTAL’, ‘EDISON’ and ‘ELPE’ has been created by a competitive process in the second licensing round similar to the previous laws. Pursuant to the decision of the Minister for the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Mr Ioannis Maniotis D1/A/12892/31-7-2014 on the award of an international tender for the award of an international tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in twenty maritime areas in Western Greece - Ionian, namely - and south of Crete, amended by the 173933/313-2015 decision of the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis, were invited, as well as by natural and legal persons, who meet the requirements of the invitation, to tender for the award of the right to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in twenty maritime areas in western Greece, in Ionian and south of Crete. The evaluation criteria are described in detail and consist in the financial capacity of the candidates to carry out the required work, the proven technical experience and competence, the completeness of tenders, the quality of the work programme and the timetable, the knowledge and the way in which they are conducted, the management of environmentally sensitive areas, the effectiveness of previous concessions, the composition of the partnership and the proposed member as mandated. Subsequently, Committees were set up to support the Ministry in the process of obtaining the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons for these international invitations. The negotiation process has soon been completed with the assessments of the final binding tenders and has resulted in the wage earners mentioned above, as I have already said. As regards the benefits and importance of the projects, the present contracts together with the former ones for Katakolo - Ioannina and the Patraikos Gulf form a new and integrated field of activity of the Greek economy. The country's energy role has been widened and maximised not only as a producer, but in conjunction with pipelines, terminals, new international electricity interconnection networks become an important energy hub throughout the Southeast Mediterranean. The mining of hydrocarbons to such a large extent of the territory re-establishes the legitimate exercise of national sovereignty and the national sovereign rights of the Hellenic Republic in its same wealthy sources. The signatures of the lease agreements confirm the exercise of national sovereign rights and the expected benefit to the economic development of the country. With regard to the leasing elements, lessees take over the costs and risks of the projects throughout the project. Programmes and budgets shall be carried out by the lessee, if they have been submitted and approved by the lessee. The lessee has all the means of production, i.e. funds, equipment, technical and knowledge, taking over all the financial risks, whether or not he finds a marketable look. Once a exploitable look has been found, the lessee shall notify the lessee and the lessee of these by-products other than refining and shall pay the lessee the rent and similar taxes. The lease contract shall last for eight years for the investigation period and twenty-five with the possibility of extending two five years after the uncovering of the exploitable deposit. Public revenues are determined by taxes of 20% plus 5% regional taxes on rent, area allowances and agreed sub-compensations. The rent is due to the State regardless of whether or not a profit is achieved by the lessee, because it was agreed to a percentage of the expected quantities of the hydrocarbons extracted. It has provided for the establishment of a National Social Solidarity Account to support the sustainability of the national insurance system, which has not yet been implemented, of course. It is also foreseen that the contractor should finance, with a certain amount of an annual amount, the education and training of the municipality "ESA" in hydrocarbons, as the revenues will be made available for the carrying out of research programmes in energy and the utilization of our mineral wealth in general. It is worth noting that the risks are not shared with the Greek State and its lease income is guaranteed and independently of the result. On environmental issues, Greece has incorporated all the relevant European legislation, which is both the strictest internationally and differently. The lease agreement contains a strict grid of provisions and rules that fully protect - we believe - the environment. It is the strictest in the European Union, as I said before. We should stress that particular attention is paid to and includes legislation on the safety of offshore installations, n.4409/2016, where Directive 2013/30 of the European Union is incorporated. It does not contain any favourable regulation on environmental issues in favour of employees. It obliges them to respect fully the Greek and European rules, not only on the present legislation, but also on any future stricter legislation. We must stress that there is a joint ministerial decision to approve the strategic environmental impact study on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in eleven Ionian Sea areas with effect for the entire duration of the Ionian region's research and exploitation programme. Therefore, under that Joint Ministerial Decision, conditions, limitations and guidelines should be laid down in the specialisation and implementation of each programme concerning hydrocarbons in that region. Strategic environmental impact studies have been carried out in parallel with the concession procedures of both land areas and marine environments by the ERCF with the corresponding Directorate of RIS. The Ionian Sea Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Decision, which geographically covers all eleven regions of the second competition, with a view to better environmental protection and sustainable management, provides for a separate environmental unit. It will operate under the sole responsibility of the entity entrusted with the right of investigation and exploitation, while being supervised by the Planning Authority. It will have the responsibilities and responsibilities within the establishment plan necessary for effective intervention during the planning, implementation and operation of each project. It is geared to environmental tasks which can only be combined with matters of safety and hygiene. It is administered by a sufficient number of staff and training staff. It shall have infrastructure and resources necessary for its effective operation. It shall be kept updated on top technologies developed and implemented internationally. In addition, the environmental unit will be a link to all environmental issues with the local communities and the relevant administrations. The convention - and here I will stress - 'Block 2' in the Ionian Sea with 'Total-Edison-ELPE', we believe it is an agreement - standard, the subject of a far-reaching negotiation which opens a path to agreements that will follow. As regards the articles of lease contracts, Article 1 states, inter alia, that the costs and risks of carrying out oil operations are borne exclusively by the lessee. Articles 2 and 3 state that the duration of the basic research plan is set at seven years, with an extension not exceeding eight years. The lessee's liabilities are described for each step of business. In Article 4 we have referred to the Technical Advisory Committee set up jointly by the public and the employed persons, and Article 5 describes the procedure whereby the lessee submits the technical programme and the corresponding budget every year. Article 6 lays down the conditions and conditions under which the employed person is entitled to waive the right of investigation of the whole area or part thereof. This article also refers to the obligation of the lessee to establish the returnable area, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 9.1 of this Convention and taking all necessary measures to prevent risks to the environment, human life or property. Article 7 lays down the actions and obligations of the lessee if hydrocarbons are revealed in the area of research. Article 8 stipulates that, if Article 7 applies and the lessee passes the farm stage, this has a duration of twenty-five years with the possibility of two extensions for every five years each. Article 11 provides for the disclosure of hydrocarbon deposits outside the research area given to the lessee and within an area given by the State to another contractor. It requires them to draw up and submit to the relevant Minister a programme for the consolidation of research and exploitation of the stadium. Article 12 is important for environmental case-law. It imposes on the lessee an obligation to comply with environmental legislation and imposes obligations in respect of the submission of environmental reports and the treatment of any accidents. It is of particular importance and includes legislation on the safety of offshore installations, n.4409/2016, which incorporates Directive 2013/30 of the European Union. Article 13 defines the method of calculation and the procedure for payment of the annual lease, which may be either in kind or in cash. Article 14 deals with tax matters. Each exchanger shall be subject to a specific income tax of 20% and to a regional tax of 5%, without any additional regular or extraordinary contribution, a fee or charge of any kind in favour of the public or any third party. Article 15 sets out additional consideration, in addition to rent, that the lessee is obliged to pay to the public. These may be area allowances and others. For the first time, it also provides for the first production, which is set at EUR 1,000 000. Article 21 lays down the conditions and procedure by which the State may consider the lessee to be in breach of the terms of the agreement on its part and, at the same time, the rights of the public are known in such a case. Article 23 lays down the procedure for the settlement of disputes between the public and the employee. Seven annexes are also included. Finally, I would like to note a few things that were noted during the debate two days ago in the committee. We dominate the contract with "TOTAL" in four months, which is a completely new competition and in the medium term, from the signatures to the present day, we also activated the SEE, a dead company until recently, in which, first, we gave substance and second, we transferred the entire file from the Ministry's service to it. Therefore, ratifying the contracts has enabled the institution that will manage them, whatever weakness or delay on the part is showing us. A second point is that the law in Greece provides for two models. The first is that by which the public benefits from the exploration and production of hydrocarbons, but does not participate in the exploitation, the Lease Agreement. All the conventions which have been done so far are on the basis of this procedure and we believe that it is right, because our country has no experience of this. The second model, which is the Production Sharing Agreement, where the public is involved in the exploitation and thus shares the risk of investment and its benefits, is a second stage that we simply have to and are obliged to see. The law also gives us this possibility. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. The New Democracy has asked for a little change, and colleagues have accepted. Mr Arvanitides will now speak, Mr Shahinides will follow and Mr Katsafandos will then speak. Mr Arvanitides, rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we are living or following the other government of post-population, a government that drives the popular word 'they call me root and turn it around'. You have proposed and legislated a rental allowance for the extra-parliamentary ministers and then tell us that the provision is not moral and you will get it back. You have proposed and legislated that the ministers' talks remain in five minutes, and I think it is a matter of time for you to come and vote on it in the House. You have brought to Parliament for ratification four very important conventions on hydrocarbons research, while a minister who just left and a dear majority colleague says they will vote against them. They said so, of course, after a celebration, when they saw that there is a majority in the House to pass the bill. Known practices, because above all it seems to be 'the chair'. No one's going to move from her. So whatever behaviour is acceptable, but I think we should be serious. We are here today because our proliferation has come forward in a national effort called the exploration and production of hydrocarbons in Greece. We are proud that we have opened the way, by voting in previous years on PASOK governments - Yiannis Maniotis is here - the necessary legislative framework with proper preparation and work for this national and not a party matter. And it is a national case, because the use of hydrocarbons is part of the national production reconstruction plan that the country needs to acquire. Although SYRIZA was opposed, it seems that his fate has it - as I told the committee - to implement and legislate what was avoiding and voting against. But today I want to be united and not split, because the use of hydrocarbons increases us geopolitically, puts us in other terms on the map of south-eastern Europe. This is the one dimension of today's conventions, which we are voting on, their geopolitical importance. The second extremely important issue is their developmental significance. Both dimensions together, geopolitics and development, if the results of the surveys are positive, will form another Greece, will lay the foundations, continue hydrocarbons research in other regions in the near future. They will form a Greece that will not bleed from the flight of its young people abroad, a Greece that will produce real wealth, a Greece that can finance growth with its own funds, without standing by hand constantly spreading. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the geopolitical dimension of the conventions. Their ratification by the Greek Parliament marks the will of our country to progress decisively in the full exercise of its sovereign rights, not only in Ionian and Western Greece, but also in any other areas of Greek EEZ and mainland Greece that it is considered appropriate. The ratification of these four conventions shows that Greece is moving forward and sending messages. We must not allow grey areas to be set up in either the Aegean or elsewhere. A common energy doctrine between Greece and Cyprus, with the necessary consensus within the European Union, will demonstrate that the energy deposits in both these countries are European deposits, with what this implies. I now come to the development dimension. If the results of the surveys after seven, eight years are encouraging, we will be talking about a historical, development opportunity, national and local. This opportunity must not be lost. Greece, beyond an energy hub and crossroads, can evolve into a oil-producing country. And we may not be from one day to the other Saudi Arabia, but at least we are strengthening our energy self-sufficiency. If we want to have a development perspective, we cannot continue to be dependent, to the extent that we are now on fuel imports and other energy products. Time, revenue and environmental protection are three key words of success, not only in these conventions, but also in all those that will follow in the next period. We must carefully plan the next steps and explain to the citizens what we want to do. I have asked you, Minister, to inform the House and the citizens of how long you think the mining research will be needed until it is fully operational. I have asked you, if you know, to give us an assessment of the amount of revenue we are targeting. And, of course, give guarantees to safeguard our natural and cultural environment. The government, Minister - and I think you will agree - must run. You need to run the procedures faster, as the interest of the major oil companies is intense, especially for the plots of the Peloponnese and Crete. I think it would be useful to give us a map of your next moves in this regard. We should also see the possible use of natural gas deposits, such as the one in the Renaissance of Thessaloniki, which have been found in the 1980s, based on the possibilities of modern technology. Something we couldn't do then, maybe we can plan and do now. I have put this to the committee as well, Minister, and I would like to know whether your planning for the next stages and the next competitive procedures is going to be the region. But beyond the speed that the government needs to develop, you must tell us and know what you are planning with the Solidarity Fund. There are a number of questions that need to be made known to the citizens. I asked you in committee when you plan to set up this fund. You should also make it clear to us once and for all whether this fund will receive what was planned, 75% of the income from the country's mineral wealth, so as to stimulate the insurance funds and design another insurance system, sustainable, over time. These are serious issues, Minister, and they want clear and concrete answers. The dowry of our natural resources is a dowry of all Greeks and can ensure a sustainable pension system. Therefore, citizens, particularly young generations who fear that they will never receive a pension, know what the direct income we expect from these conventions is, what the amount of investment might be in the years to come and how many jobs are likely to be created. There are other issues that are equally important, which need answers. There are concerns, Minister, about low incomes due to the low price of oil. Is this thought valid over time? I also asked the committee if we are going to change the model for subsequent mining contracts, i.e. if you are planning to go from the lease contract model to the equity participation model. Of course, the answer you gave, it covers me personally. I cannot, however, leave the way in which you have opened the matter. You accused me or commented that I asked you why I'm reading a conservative press. Really, Minister, what press are you reading? You're only reading the pro-government who caress your ears? You don't think you should take a look at...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u8	See the paper...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u9	It is interesting, Mr Colleague, 'linear' completely. Unless you think that no mistake has been made in your term, that everything is fine, we don't need to improve anything. "We win - we win," as we always do. I asked you, Minister, to officially know the intentions of the government. I don't adopt titles or models. I'm doing what every Member would do to keep him informed in the official way. So I suggested that you listen more carefully to the opposition, especially when dialogue is taking place in a good climate and with a view to resolving any problems, for the good of the country. I'm closing up with local communities. You are well aware, Minister, that in Western Greece, apart from anticipation of future revenue, there is concern. It is clear that in Corfu, Arta, Preveza, Istanbul, Achaia and Elia better development prospects will be created that will motivate citizens to have a choice to stay in their place. The linking of local entrepreneurship to these projects is a crucial issue and equally important is the interconnection of our universities with companies, which will undertake mining research. Compensation, ladies and gentlemen, is not just money, it is not just resources. Rewards from local communities cannot just be a bank account. If we want the countryside to come back to life again, we must make it attractive at many levels. We must set up a comprehensive plan immediately, which guarantees a better life for those who choose to live in the region, and this plan is a good example, good practice for the rest of the country, where research will be carried out on the extraction of hydrocarbons. At the same time, it is also important to inform local communities, to provide valid and timely information to the inhabitants of these regions about what happens and what happens next. This is of particular importance so that there are no phenomena of unjustified tensions and opportunism. An observatory, for example, of the application of these conventions might be useful. And that is something that has been pointed out in many respects in committee. I think, Minister, that you must see it very seriously and do so. Monitoring of the exclusion of contracts is a safety test for which reservations are now expressed as to the weakness of the mechanisms of state control. It would also be useful to keep the House informed of the progress of the conventions, which we have and which we will ratify, so that Members and the parties can have continuous and reliable information on how the conventions and the results of the investigations are progressing, and whether the companies and the public are implementing the obligations that have been undertaken on both sides. The responsible, Minister, must inform the world in good time. For example, concerns due to the seismicity of the regions, due to the dispersal of irresponsible rumours, should be dealt with effectively and with clear arguments from the relevant bodies. You know, I sometimes understand all these environmental concerns. I have been a mayor in the industrial area of Thessaloniki, where, while everything was present extremely and with exceptional conditions of improvement of the environment, it has resulted in another problem, with the result that local communities, listening to any development plan, are locked against every initiative, because we are planning on the papers exceptionally, we are implementing the result a little bit more often than when we started. Our natural and cultural environment is not a negligible factor. The NATURA regions are also valuable development capital. The use of our natural resources must always be made with the best technical specifications and environmental provisions. Only then can we talk about sustainable development. Compliance with the relevant legislation and vigilance for environmental protection should be permanent. Because any accidental blow may be multiple from the expected benefits. In other words, from an accident we may have unpleasant effects on the other development pillar of the Greek economy, on tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of geopolitical foreign and developmental reasons Greece needs to strengthen its position on the energy chess board. In particular, our active involvement within the European Energy Union is that our absolute national interest and participation is strengthened by the activity of our country in every area of energy and the necessary investments and projects. The balanced planning and coordination of all sources in the energy mix of the country is the right policy choice. I repeat - in order not to pass on to the changers - that the government must run to cover the lost territory of three years. If we want to say, as a political system and as politicians, that we will lay the foundations for a new developmental model, which our country so much needs, we must speed up our pace with moves like today. Any delay, reassurance or regression will not be forgiven by history, will not be forgiven by the next generations. We therefore welcome once again the ratification of the four conventions, calling on the Government to take initiatives on all energy fronts and to provide us with the necessary clarification of what we need to wait from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Arvanitidis. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy MP Anna Karamanlis is requesting a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 7 March 2018 until 10 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, New Democracy MP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad during the period from 19 March 2018 to 22 March 2018, for academic reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, the Vice-President and Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, is requesting a short-day absence abroad during the period from 1 March 2018 to 6 March 2018 on a party mission. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u13	The House approved the requested permission. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ioannis Sahinides, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the four sanctions for the granting of rights for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, I consider it appropriate to make a reference to the dirty role played by the Germans in the Aegean and Cyprus. It has a direct bearing on the sanctions that we are discussing today. There is therefore a dirty role for the Germans with the deposits of hydrocarbons in the Aegean Sea and in the Cyprus Economic Zone. At a time when Turkey is provoking and threatening military operations in Athens and Nicosia, Berlin sends oceanographies to carry out seismic surveys south of Crete to the plots of the Cypriot EEZ, even requesting permission from Ankara, since the area where the ship "Maria S. MERIAN" also includes control points from Turkey. These actions by Germany, in an area where either hydrocarbon research on the Cyprus EEZ is under way or are on the south of Crete with huge quantities of gas and oil, are at least being judged to be at least curious about the sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus, since, in an indirect, but clear way, Turkey's exit to the deposits of the Eastern Mediterranean, that is to say, half the Aegean. This is also apparent from the reactions of the Erdogan regime, who rushed to publish NAVTEX for the control of the entire region from the Cypriot EEZ to Crete, while the Turkish newspaper MILLIYET commented on NAVTEX, writing: "Authorisations from Turkey, which will drive Greece and Cyprus crazy". It should be noted that this is not the first time that Germany has sent a research vessel to the Aegean, supposedly for seismic investigations, which are the first stage of gas or oil mining research, giving Turkey the right to issue NAVTEX and to challenge Greece's sovereign rights. Recently, at the beginning of January, another German vessel, MEEOR, which also belongs to the University of Hamburg - and that is no coincidence at all - had asked for research to be carried out in the South Aegean and Turkey made NAVTEX up to Kythera. With regard to the new activity of the German ship, on 3 and 4 March it is expected to sail to the opens of Cyprus for scientific research in the maritime plots of 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Cypriot EEZ and then go south of Cyprus. Nicosia notes that such licences have been granted both by Greece and Cyprus. The Germans, however, also requested permission from Turkey for a section controlled by the country, but Ankara proceeded with the NAVTEX version, attempting to familiarize itself with the entire region, five hundred miles long. Greece and Cyprus canceled these Turkish NAVTEX with an anti-NAVTEX. I testify for what I read to you in the Minutes. It's from today's publication. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to sanctions, first of all, we should say that we could obviously not oppose the even delayed launch of investigations into the extraction of hydrocarbons, since their extraction and exploitation is a key element of our political programme. We believe, however, that you are beginning in a completely wrong way and under the fear of the constant and growing Turkish threat. You are talking about the exercise of national sovereignty and national sovereign rights, about the exploitation of national wealth and so on, but this is taking place, both from you and from your predecessors in an absolutely secure geographical area where your Turkish friends will not accept. Neither you nor your predecessors, of the false right, dared to declare the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. I mean, just glamorous endless, to throw ashes in the eyes of the people. The individual economic and management conditions of the contracts - taxation, rate of profits, jobs, staff training, etc. - they are certainly important and could be improved in favour of the public after negotiation. Our main comment on the above is that the issue of the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons is primarily a national issue and a secondary economic one, since their ability to exploit them is based on and presupposes the political will to exercise our sovereign rights in the Aegean and in the Ionian Sea, which is not at all given, based on the latest developments in Imia and Cyprus, solely on your responsibility for your co-government. You must all understand that the Turk understands only the language of the weapons. That is why we believe that the doctrine of'more cannons, less butter' should apply. To be immediately declared Greek EEZ in all directions, based on the principle of the middle line, as well as the immediate start of research and drilling under the cover of our Hellenic Navy throughout the Aegean and the Ionian Sea. You, on the other hand, come now, after so many years of inertia and under the political pressure of the Golden Dawn programme to take some cowardly steps in the energy sector, steps so small and cowardly that your loan sharks and your Turkish friends don't hold you. Even this first step you are taking, is therefore a matter of retreat and assignment of national sovereignty. And I'm telling you. Only in one maritime area and in three lands are these contracts known for decades to be of interest in terms of the existence of hydrocarbons. All of you in the so-called constitutional arch have done absolutely nothing, except collecting misery and dealing with the imposition of memoranda, to sell everything, free of charge, to the large taco-circular economic colossus. Instead of turning towards our natural ally Russia by strengthening Greece's geostrategic position in the Nealgic area of south-eastern Europe, you are collaborating with French and American companies. Also, the map of Annex II to the first Convention, where the marine "region II" of the Ionian Pelagos is depicted, is indicative of what is to come into existence, since in the east of Crete nothing appears at all. No plot has been set, since you do not have the courage to declare, as I said before, the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. So, deliver to the mountainous mountainous mountainous islands any complex of islands, Dodecanese, east of Crete and the unified defence area with Cyprus goes de facto "a walk". We're talking about clear national moderation, not to mention treason. Really, why don't you go further west to start your investigations, for example. Italy? Why don't your friends challenge the Turks and your 'Sultan' Erdogan? As we said, therefore, the Turks only understand the deterrent power of arms. So the immediate proclamation of EEZ throughout the Aegean Sea from Evros to Cyprus and the single defence doctrine of Greece - Cyprus in order to de facto unification of Greece with Cyprus and to enable the Greek people to take what is rightfully owned. On the occasion of these sanctions, however, it would be useful to point out a few things, without any conspiracy, in fact, being made to the truth alone. In December 2009, former Prime Minister Papandreou said this terrible, not to say anything else: "In Greece we have no oil or the oil we have is very little". Obviously, he had not heard anything, he had absolutely no contact with the wider environment or simply expressed treasonous or resentful positions. The man didn't know about Thassos, he hadn't heard that the bad Aprilans were the ones who had done the first investigations into hydrocarbons in our homeland. Especially for the deposits in the south of Crete, which had already been identified and were known in the United States since 2007, the same course Pangalos had said, speaking in the House itself. He said there was no oil in Greece. Later, Samaras spoke of strong signs of the existence of hydrocarbons deposits in western Greece, Epirus, and the Ionian Sea region, the use of which can generate revenues of up to 150 billion for the Greek State, in a depth of twenty - five years to thirty years. Kammenos had talked about directly usable deposits, which could bring billions of euros for our country. We therefore have on 20 January 2013 a report by "DEUTSCHE BANK", where there was talk of treasure in the Greek territory. And if we go back a little further, we will reach L.2289/95 where there was talk of ways and procedures for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In '95, therefore, the Greek research vessel 'ATALANT' undertakes research into the Greek EEZ, with EU funding. In order for some to learn and remember the oldest ones, Shite froze it. There was also talk of huge stocks under Crete. Thousands of oil deposits in the North Aegean basin reveal the records of IGM and ELPE, which have been hidden for so many years and for the accuracy of buried. In the North Aegean basin, therefore, both east of the area of Prinos on the island of Baburas and surrounding locations and west to the south of the Gulf of Strymonas and Mount Athos, the alleged potential deposits are sufficient to cover one third of the energy needs of our country. According to the figures from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, estimated stocks in the Patraikos Gulf amount to two hundred million barrels, in Ioannina fifty to eighty million barrels and in Catalonia three million barrels, while the expected total revenues from the public only from the first two 25 years are estimated at about EUR 11 billion. That explains a few things. When Papandreou said "no oil", he obviously said it because he had to carry out his mission. Who was that? To drag home to the memorials and foreign loan sharks. When the first Memorandum was signed, the establishment of a hydrocarbon organisation was immediately announced and gradually, information on the existence of deposits began to be made public. Suddenly competitions were opened for western Greece and southern Crete, but not for the south-east. Greece is a state that has wealth, regardless of whether many do not want to understand it, because they are simply clinging to neo-taxy logic or even reasonable sadly rajadism. This wealth should be discovered, used for the benefit of our country and our people. Here I will repeat to you, Minister, a few things I have put to the committee as questions: Firstly, the fact that there are domestic deposits and that Greece can become an energy hub is a given one. But will our homeland benefit from energy policy, or will they benefit from domestic and foreign monopolies? These questions have not been answered. Secondly, what is the overall state framework for participation and control in investigation and exploitation procedures? Thirdly, when will these benefits begin to exist in local communities? Fourthly, are there similar conventions in other states from international experience? There, in the other states, what rents do these countries ensure and what taxes do they impose on companies with which they cooperate? Truly, the S.H.I.E.L.D., the famous Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company, in what context does it work, Minister? What has he given the state so far? In accordance with the existing legal framework, the ESA cannot participate in synergistic schemes for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. In many countries state companies have been established jointly with private companies in research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Why can't we do the same in our homeland? Why not create a national hydrocarbon company so that, in cooperation with private companies, where necessary for the provision of know-how, it can exploit the huge wealth that exists from the exploitation of hydrocarbons? What are we gonna do? National wealth, as we call it, which will go directly to the people and to the homeland and not to TIADE and to debt. Let it finally be realised that our country can stand up to dignity and create wealth if there is proper research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Let us not forget that, thanks to the hydrocarbons of the North Sea, Norway has been saved and stood on its feet and has reached the second largest per capita income in Europe since Luxembourg. The exploitation of Greek energy deposits combined with the proclamation of the Greek EEZ enhances the role of our country towards the United States, Russia and Europe as well. It will give economic benefits, however, mainly, national benefits. To do all this, however, we should be ready as a nation to defend all of this. Because the discovery of energy stocks within the Greek EEZ is aroused by tensions, even violent conflicts. In combination with the acquisition of national wealth and economic benefits, there is the struggle for Greece to become a free and sovereign state again. I am impressed by the committee that no party has heard a press release submitted by the workers at the Panhellenic Association of Workers in "Greek Petroleum", which is also a member of the Panhellenic Energy Federation. What do these people say? That among the three of the four companies related to the sanctions are ‘Greek Petroleum’, the remaining percentage of which will be sold to the GOI. There are a number of other issues coming up here. What happens after the property regime changes to the "Greek Petroleum"? Will the contract be signed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. I will read to you the press release sent to us by the employees of "Greek Petroleum": "Their unequivocal opposition to the possibility of further privatization of the ELPE has been expressed by the workers today in their meeting with the President of HIDED Mr. Xenopho Mars at the offices of their club: Mr. Xenopho confirmed to us the intention of HIDE to proceed with the sale of shares, as envisaged by the relevant agreements with the lenders. The association for its part made it clear that "Greek Petroleum" is the property of the Greek people. "Greek Petroleum" is a colostrum company for Greek data that also operates outside the border - Cyprus, Skopje, Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro - with what that means. The "Greek Petroleum" in recent years has made a consistent record of profitability contributing decisively to the development of the country and there is absolutely no reason to privatise a company that is perfectly healthy and at the same time has undertaken, in cooperation with the world's largest energy complexes, to investigate the potential for hydrocarbons in our country, gas and oil. Through the "Greek Petroleum" state exercises the country's energy policy. The "Greek Petroleum" care for the uninterrupted supply and energy needs of the country to the security bodies, hospitals, schools and others. The "Greek Petroleum" ensures the supply of fuel from remote regions of the country - islands and mountainous volumes - operating as a multiplier of the benefits of all kinds of activities, such as tourism for livestock farming and agricultural production. The "Greek Petroleum" pursues social policy at a level that no purely private enterprise will do. So the list of reasons why ELPEs must be preserved as an eye daughter is long and in a short time you will be selling them. As workers, but primarily as citizens of this country, we made it clear that the institutions of the type of HSE are in no way legalised to sell the property of the Greek people. As workers and as citizens we categorically state that we will fight with all our forces to prevent our country's further selling. This is about the present and the future of our country, and we have to fight against the next generations to give them more than we have received. Because, paradoxically, the country did not inherit it from our ancestors but we have borrowed it from our children." I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. The rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, given the timing of the situation, I cannot fail to take the opportunity to wish you good luck in this forthcoming reshaping which is then rumoured by the ministers who are leaving night and by a government which is licking in a very difficult situation for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of four conventions, which have to do with the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons at Plot 2, which is located in a maritime region about thirty kilometres west of Corfu. We are also discussing the remaining three areas of land and these are the northwest Peloponnese, Itolo-Carnania and Arta-Preveza. Undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, these actions are an important investment perspective for the country. It is an important prospect, which is linked to our country's serious entry into the energy map, but also to its geopolitical upgrading. It is clearly linked to the increase in wealth and local society as well as to new jobs which are very important. We must, however, be bold and realistic to those who are involved in policy, so we must recognise that the whole context and the preparation of these sanctions which we are debating today was a product of methodical and documented work, which was done by the previous government. I would therefore like to dwell on this because it seems that your Government has a difficulty in accepting and confessing reality. And the reality, Mr. Majority's colleague, is that the initiation of the procedure for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and natural gas was launched by an international press competition for open invitations to tender in January 2012. Then concessions were made for three land plots. An international competition that was for twenty marine plots coastal to western Greece and south of Crete in July 2014. This - and it is very important to stress today - means that during the previous government's term of office the country has succeeded and launched a tender for the exploitation of twenty sea lands with an area of more than 100 thousand square kilometres, which represents more than 75% of the territory of the Greek territory. But something important, which has given our country a very powerful diplomatic and political weapon, is that these competitions for the exploitation of marine land were published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This means de facto recognition of the Greek jurisdiction and sovereignty over these lands. Twelve plots are currently under way where there is a high degree of maturity of the procedures. I refer specifically to the maritime areas such as Katakolo, the Patraikos Gulf west, the Plot 1, the Plot 2, the Plot 10 and the Plot of Western Crete, the south-west Crete, and the land areas of Ioannina, Artas, Preveza, Ioannina and the Northwest Peloponnese that we are discussing today. So all this, ladies and gentlemen, has not suddenly happened in a magic way. They are a product of work that took place until the end of 2014. I must say, therefore, that when you took over the country's governance in January 2015, you announced through the then Minister your intention to review competitions on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Of course, that was an intention where you said other things, but you brought it to the Greek people and other things you did the next day. It's nothing different. You are also used to us in all these practices. I don't need to remind you what you were talking about the OPAP. I don't need to remind you what you were saying about the fourteen regional airports. I do not need to remind you of what you were saying about the Greek and all the things you had taken to the Greek people with a large stock of populism and what you were doing next. What, though, has happened over the three years, ladies and gentlemen, where are you in power? After three years of failure by the Government in August 2017 to obtain an invitation to make three new coastal land available, one in the Ionian Sea and two others in the south-west of Crete, again through this process you condemned, the 'open-door' process, that is, the procedure followed by the previous government and with which you disagreed and complained to us. As far as the content of the ratification is concerned, there are issues, Mr Minister - I have also developed them in the committee - which we should highlight. The first concerns the unjustified delay in the ratification of the Convention by Parliament. Unfortunately, you did not give us any convincing answers about the fact, not that it spent four months for the first ratification of the contract, but because after the signing of the contract it spent nine months for the remaining three. Since today we are talking in the House. And if the majority rapporteur considers that four months is not a long delay, nine months what is it? And when we talk about the delay, Minister, we are not talking about highlighting the delay in itself, and we are talking about highlighting the possible impact it had on the economy and the whole process. If the ratification in this House were to be promptly promoted, and not after four or nine months, we would now start research on hydrocarbons, ladies and gentlemen. Because of this delay, at best for us the investigations will begin in the autumn. There are also negative impressions for our country at a time when investment is vital and we should finally give the image of a country that speeds up and facilitates all these processes. On the contrary, on your own responsibility, the impression is that we are blocking and trying to postpone all these activities. You also told me in committee, Minister, when I told you that TOTAL expressed last spring its reservations and its discomfort with all this procrastination and the danger of leaving the competition, that these are stories of conspiracy. Unfortunately, however, you can't tell us that what the company leaders say is a fiction of our own imagination. We don't all conspire against this government. The reality is this and the reality is what we are showing. A second question is that all four sanctions are not included in the provisions of Laws 4374/2016 and 4403/2016, in which they incorporated the Directives of the European Union 34 of 2013 and 50 of 2013. These two directives are important, ladies and gentlemen, because they are safeguards for respect for transparency. Under the provisions of these two Directives and the laws that I mentioned, it is imperative that the mining companies and especially hydrocarbons mining companies make annual payments of more than EUR 100,000 available to all local, regional and national bodies of the state for transparency. Mr Minister, as I have said in committee, I believe that this gap must be immediately covered by a legislative improvement. A third point relates to the delay in the establishment and operation of an independent authority with responsibility for the security of offshore oil and gas operations. Directive 30 of 2013 and Law 4409/2016 provided for the establishment of this independent authority, but so far it has not been established and its responsibilities have come to the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company. Here, therefore, there is a great gap, ladies and gentlemen, which is related to safety and, above all, the part relating to environmental protection. You know what? You are not just sensitive to the environment. I think, because we have discussed this recently on a timely question that we discussed, Mr Minister, the environment is something that we must deliver to the next generation as protected as possible. In committee too, Mr Dimitras, who is a member of the government majority, expressed his disagreement and the gaps that exist in relation to the protection of the environment for these conventions. I think you will, Mr. Diarah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u17	Do you adopt the opinion of Mr Dimitras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u18	No, I say that they have reservations, Mr Colleague, and finally put this principle, which was our duty to operate, to start and to function. I said something very simple. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth point is that two exploratory drillings, one in the second phase of the research programmes concerned, namely the fourth or fifth year, and one in the third phase, namely the sixth or seventh year, are envisaged. On the contrary, in the land area of the North-West of the Peloponnese, despite the fact that it covers a smaller area, there is only one drilling in the third phase of the programme, namely the sixth or seventh years. So what we should understand, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can see what is under the ground will be eight to nine years from the time the relevant procedure was initiated, that is, from 2014. And the second drill for the northwest Peloponnese will have been 11 years. So this delay, as you can see, is not justified if we take into account the technological developments we have in the field of hydrocarbons research and extraction which can shorten the time. We believe that, especially for land areas, the times of the first drilling should have been shortened and set in the fourth year. To close, I cannot avoid temptation, Minister, not to say that another piece of legislation brought by the government majority has been broken down. However, it is not always possible on critical issues, on crucial legislation, and despite the disagreements and objections we have put before you, to ask for the vote and for the help of the other parties. That's the reality. You should understand and at some point recognize the responsible attitude some parties have in this House because - you know - we are not all the same. If you were in our position, today you would vote against, today you would raise the Greek people, today you would say about the greatft, the great robbery, silver and gold and the future that is being mortgaged by the young people and the entire Greek society, while we understand and recognize the effort that needs to be made to finally integrate the country seriously into the energy map, so that the country can have even greater geopolitical power. And, of course, this reproach is also for you, Mr Dimitras, because you cannot disagree on environmental issues and support the government in everything else. It can't be with the policeman and the ranger. At some point we should be consistent with our conscience and with the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote in favour of ratification of these conventions. After all, it is a project that began on our own days, from our own government, and it is a project that we believed and we will continue to believe with all our power, because we have to build a country that is strong, we have to build a country that also has its own energy sign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Katsafandos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two fellow professors from the 26th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamanto Manolakos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u20	The concessions, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons of course proceeded from the previous governments - and they are simply completed by the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL, disseminating through an office of eight people, directly owned by the Minister concerned, the country's energy wealth in a handful of groups that will win the lion's share, leaving the domestic institutes, IGME and ΕΛΕΝ, and not solving their problems, which could, of course, help even more. This is a typical and not a substantial procedure for unacceptable contracts for the disposal, exploitation of hydrocarbons that ensure huge profits and minimum obligations for research and then mining. In fact, for the country there is no guarantee of hydrocarbons even in the event of war. In other words, the wealth of the Greek people is delivered to the groups with permanent loss of a valuable resource that is not complemented and will be deprived of by the next generations. Moreover, the existing conditions are getting worse for the environment and local economies. Environmental impact studies have not been complete since the New Democracy and the PASOK were and should now be criticised. And, of course, there are no plans to prevent and reduce the consequences of possible accidents, for example, leakage of oil or hydrogen sulphide, while areas with significant tourist activity, fisheries, cultural heritage, protected natural areas, will be tested for major impacts and restrictions. There are no reports of known issues. We are talking about toxic waste leaks, but also about depleted uranium bombs from the time of the naval bombing in Yugoslavia, and there is no government commitment that there will be a detailed record and imprint of micro-zonal studies for the areas to be involved before mining begins. The state body is decorative. Its only role is to distribute the pie to the groups. Whole areas are assigned to the private groups for research, while the groups are then able to proceed or not to further mining operations. In fact, the right to search is conferred on it, and indeed on a symbolic price. As far as the research data on hydrocarbons are concerned exclusively with the groups, they decide what they will show. The data belong to the groups and if the hydrocarbon exploitation process proceeds, there is no substantial State control in the process. In other words, the state authorities will not know the stocks of hydrocarbons and the take-overs on the part of the companies. The Groups' obligations are minimal, and they also have full rights to mining. At the same time, there are institutional tax exemptions for the overwage operator to a significant extent, 40% of the amount of depreciation, in relation to the value of the hydrocarbons produced per annum or the possibility of carrying tax losses is provided. Exemption is also provided for in the contracts for loans or credits of the employed person from any tax or levy or levy or public reservation. There is no provision for any type of compensation in favour of the general public in the event of the employee's discount or any specific obligation on the wages and the number of staff to be employed, nor for any limitation on the employment relationship. On the other hand, the possibility of using foreign workers is explicitly foreseen, but there is provocatively an exemption from claims or claims under one party's contract against the other for events which constitute force majeure. What's the force violence? Strikes, revolutions, social upheavals, upheavals and attitudes, i.e. hitting racing workers. In short, the country's hydrocarbons are delivered into the large capital, and against a thin and indiscriminate price. No one can control mining groups for how much they extract. The methodology used to calculate the rent is cut and sewn to the group measures. The method of calculating the price of hydrocarbons is also open for extra profits. In addition, mining is done on the basis of profit rather than the needs of people. Groups will extract as long as they think they are profitable. Even if our region is an earthquake, one of the most dangerous regions in Europe, in the likelihood of disaster due to an earthquake, what will happen? There will be irreparable destruction throughout the region. However, there are no preventive measures. However, the provisions of the Convention on the protection and safety of the life of workers and the environment are almost nonexistent. No one can guarantee and demand that the safety measures provided for are complied with. A serious issue - although we have raised it in the debate in committee, Minister, we have not received a reply - is how the Government can proceed to concessions and begin the procedures for new investigations into the rest of the plots, without furthering the EEZ proclamation procedure, in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. And it's not, where we're talking about it, and it's just the recent chameleons, partners from the Germans. Something they know is happening in these areas. It seems, however, that the government follows the relevant American advice, in essence, while the aggression of Turkey's bourgeoisie is escalating. Turkey disputes by diplomatic and military means the existing borders of the region, disputes the Treaty of Lausanne and attempts to create fascinated grey zones in the Aegean Sea, because it requires juncture in the Aegean Sea and the inclusion of Greek hydrocarbon deposits. Because there are bazaars too. Finally, the Government consistently serves the objectives of the Greek bourgeoisie, in order to enhance the competitiveness of domestic monopolistic groups in the wider region, to upgrade the country to a hub of energy and merchandise and to get a share of the profits. It is thus confirmed that each civil government is negotiating the country's sovereign rights in the light of the interests of big capital. After all, for the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie, the government takes a dangerous role in NATO's aggressive plans in the wider region, which is why a base of American drones in Larissa is being prepared. But raising the flag of geopolitical upgrading, the government plays with fire. It involves Greece increasingly in the intra-imperialist opposition bucket in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. Finally, although the great potential available to Greece in the field of hydrocarbons research and production is illustrated, the great benefits of the overall energy policy pursued by the current government, like the previous ones, will be the largest shareholders of domestic and foreign groups. That is why you are voting for these conventions together, PASOK and New Democracy. Didn't you do the same with the third memorandum? Because the fairy tale of this capitalist development you are promoting ensures an increase in the profits of the energy groups and, of course, goes hand in hand with the increase in the level of exploitation of workers, goes hand in hand with reduced guarantees of environmental protection, the loss of popular consumption and that is why fuels are expensive. All of this will be called Greek proprietary program. You are saying that jobs will be secure. Really, how will these colossians work? Will they work without workers? But then they can't produce wealth. So, what did you want them to have completely slaves without a reward? But let us also look at the new jobs created by the TAP pipeline. It is with slashed rights, exhaustive hours, unpaid overtime, hours that are done in practice at 11 o'clock, while the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work is not paid. We have, however, seen that with the Prin's look - signed by the previous ones, where neither the state control nor the commitment of part of the possible mining by the Greek State - the state received a single cent from the agreement that ENERGEAN OIL made on this look, simply sold domestic production to the multinational 'BP'. What did the people's family win? Paying the heating oil very expensively! And for the government's argument that state revenues from farm taxation will go to a special fund to support social security, we have one to say: the fiscal policy you are promoting is a given one. It supports the profitability of capital and creditors and sacrifices workers' rights. Whatever contribution is made, it will be accompanied by arrangements concerning other part of the state funding, which you were obliged and should have been given. But let us see all what we have in the government's energy planning: Civil liberation of energy with European Union regulations. Lignite generation limitations, by dramatically reducing its exploitation, i.e. basic, cheap, domestic energy source. Development of natural gas, however, for electricity generation, which increases the country's energy dependence and waste energy. At the same time, private groups that invest in electricity are opting for natural gas, since small initial costs lead to higher profits. They also opt for renewable energy sources, which give gross subsidies. Therefore, with the current privileged contracts for the granting of hydrocarbons rights, a whole grid of state interventions for private groups is being formed, which in no way ensures self-sufficiency or cheap invoices to people's households, but strengthens energy poverty in the people's families. That is why people's households over the last decade have seen resentable increases in electricity tariffs and, of course, debts touching two billion. These are the results of your energy policy, profits for monopolies and poverty for the people. That is why we are voting against all four conventions. As far as global experience is concerned, I shall refer to a recent study with many elements. I'll say a few. On 20 December 2017, the French Parliament passed a new law. It prohibits exploration and production of oil and gas by 2040 in both mainland France and the overseas regions, stops granting new permits and does not renew existing ones. Norway has recently decided to stop mining. The Mayor of New York filed a complaint on January 11, 2018 against the major oil companies accused of contributing to climate change and deliberately misled the public in order to protect their profits, despite the fact that they knew the harmful consequences and so on. We say clearly: The Communist Party of Greece considers that Greek hydrocarbon deposits can be used for the benefit of Greek prosperity if they follow a different path of development, based on social needs and not capitalist profit. This road presupposes social ownership in the energy sector and as a whole in the means of production, so that scientific central planning can be implemented, which will serve a set of planned objectives: reducing the country's degree of energy dependence, protecting the environment and public health, saving energy, ensuring adequate and cheap popular consumption, the safety of workers in the industry. Within this framework of socialist production relations, with labour power, transnational, mutually beneficial cooperation can be ensured through systematic research and development of domestic energy sources and the transfer of relevant know-how. Also, an important part of the local scientific potential can be exploited and the country's sovereign rights shielded. The path we are proposing is certainly difficult. However, it is only realistic to satisfy social needs, since energy will not be a commodity, but a social asset at an adequate and affordable price for the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 92-94]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following letter to the House: 'Mr President, We say to you that the Independent MP II of Thessaloniki, Mrs Catherine Marcos, in accordance with Rule 16(1) and (5) of the Rules of Procedure, accedes and joins the New Democracy Parliamentary Group." It's an update from the New Democracy Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u22	The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Lazarides. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing four bills by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy concerning the ratification of lease agreements to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in various areas, sea and land. The contracts have been signed and relate to contracts between the Hellenic Republic and companies of the area for the terrestrial area ‘Itoloakarnania’, the land area ‘North-Western Peloponnese’, the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’ and the Ionian Sea Region. This development creates many new data on regional development in western Greece and the Ionian Islands. The local economy in Epirus and Western Greece will receive direct and indirect benefits both through the creation of new jobs and through the creation of the need to provide products, services and infrastructure for the needs of people involved in the construction and operation of the project. The quantity of findings remains unknown, but it is certain that oil and natural gas will be found on the plots, which have already been allocated for exploration, land and sea. However, the identification and exploitation of hydrocarbons is not a long-standing and time-consuming case. It is, at the same time, a series of very demanding techniques, specialization and knowledge. Our country needs special technology and knowledge, particularly in deep sea mining, in economic sectors that do not possess such know-how and experience. This gap is complemented by the attraction of foreign investments and the transfer of know-how to us. In any case, we are concerned primarily with the commitment of the companies concerned by international directives and protocols to ensure that safety measures are such that they are at all risk, even in the event of a major earthquake. It is very important and unnecessarily to apply the stricter standards of international practice on health and the protection of human resources, public safety and environmental protection, in particular the marine environment, marine biodiversity and coastal areas, and to avoid any damage to the main economic activities of the coastal front, in constant dialogue with local society. We note, however, that the lease agreement contains a strong and strict grid of provisions and rules that fully protect the environment. Environmental protection and the orderly continuation of other economic sectors of our economy, such as tourism, the primary sector, but also alternative sources of revenue attraction and interest, such as ecotourism or other forms of regional development, must be ensured by appropriate mechanisms to continuously monitor the actions of companies from the start of activity to the research stage. Clearly, we believe that all the necessary evaluations have been preceded by the relevant services and the necessary environmental impact studies, and we call for something that obviously allows for the start of research work, but also with regard to contracts with foreign oil, the legal framework being clear. Once all of this is secured, then we can talk about an excellent opportunity for the country's overall re-launching. According to the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State, all four bills bring about a future annual increase in revenue from the existence of the regional tax provided for in the regional tax of 5% paid by the lessee or each lessee on a case-by-case basis during the operating phase, the amount of which depends on actual events. As we see, the Greek State has determined, in addition to the 25% rate imposed as a tax on the contractor's gross income, a 5% rate which will be attributed to the support of regions, where, depending on the level of production, this rate can be ranging from 20 to 30 million per annum. Here, Minister, I would like you to tell us how this 5% rate is to be allocated to the OTAs beforehand. Our country's adaptation to new data, that of energy, will mean thousands of jobs and, above all, a great economic opportunity opens up and will allow us to get away from today's difficulties. Aiming to create a new powerful pillar of activities is considered an important and strategic move for our economic position, for the present and future, and further strengthens our geopolitical position. The role of Greece will be upgraded both in the eastern Mediterranean and in the European Union. That is a great objective and we must support it strategically and seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been supporting the debate on the enormous delay in energy, the inertia that characterizes us as a state of non-use of the wealthy deposits of our territory. The example of Cyprus proves, among other things, that the exit from the crisis passes through the hydrocarbons. As we have said, the aim is a great one, and we therefore look forward, if we are to find a solution to the environmental impact of this information today, to move forward to the new opportunities and prospects that open up for our economy and local communities at last. The management of the matter must not concern any party. The issue is national and our decision is very important, which will define our future and strengthen our positions in an increasingly growing and competitive environment. Reconstruction of the country, with a view to restarting the economy and development, requires time, investment, structural reforms, stable political and economic environment, declining public debt, as well as a national reconstruction and development plan, with objectives and priorities, which meet the needs of the national economy and society in areas where the country has a comparative advantage. Only the implementation of such a national reconstruction and development plan can create the competent but also the necessary conditions for our country to leave the crisis and for national reconstruction. The Independent Greeks are in agreement and positive with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Lazarides. The Special Rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Kavvadelas, has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then explain some of the reasons why I believe that all four conventions, which we are coming to ratify today, with the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, will not work to maximise the interests of the Greek State, nor to upgrade Greece, as much as it should, in a producer country, nor to benefit the Greek economy and society, of course, to the extent that we would all expect from these conventions. In relation to the contract model, which will be chosen in the future, the Minister, the first time in committee, was trying to make a definite effort in favour of today's "please agreement" and on the other hand, he actually encouraged or better, I could say, he commanded the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company to prepare the next step, which is the pass to the "Production Share Agreement". This second form of contract, in order to understand what it means, allows the state to enter private-sector joint ventures that are involved in the project. I could say that this involvement is not necessarily bad. However, it requires the participation of many hundreds of millions of euros, for which we have no information on where the government will find them and, above all, of course, transparent. It has been provided for in Article 2 for a very long basic research stage of seven or eight years, which, together with the extension of paragraph 2 and the special extension of paragraph 3, reaches about fifteen years of research, until we can draw the first barrel. The committee was given no explanation why the Ministry was so generous, since our Cypriot brothers, who are a little more advanced than us on these issues, on the site of the relevant agency of their Ministry of Energy, say that there is a period of seven years for the research stage, including all extensions. As far as the much advertised new jobs are concerned, there is not even a simple set of plans, which is what the whole project is planned to create. In addition, given that, as we know, specific and particularly high know-how is required on the part of staff and some particularly informed staff - of course, there must be no specialisations or unskilled workers - and that the lack of the domestic knowshow is considered to be given, in safety, we could conclude that, in order for even one intake, we must wait for the basic stage of research, that is to say, the fifteen years that we have previously described. There is the broad acceptance on the part of the Ministry that its members lack relevant knowledge, since it provided for the Convention to be included in Article 15(3), but also in Article 25, which obliges private companies to take care of the education of the human resources not only of the Ministry but also of the public, even of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company in general. This leads us to the safe conclusion that, firstly, since the Ministry admits that not only its services, but also the specialized EDPS, the Hydrocarbon Management Company, have not had the necessary knowledge, it obviously did not find a single person in that country that would take care to ensure that the public interest has been adequately guaranteed in these contracts. Apart from that, there is something else, the same problem. This provision for training public officials by private individuals reminds of the methods "NOVARTIS", the actions of which your Government supposedly stigmatizes. I would like to ask a question of common sense: in what other country in the world is the controlled person paying for the education and postgraduate of his auditors? The oversimplification of the Ministry that the revenues of the Greek State are ensured does not seem to be shared by the relevant General Accounting Office of the State, which in his report simply mentions a possible increase in public revenues rather than a certain one, while, on the other, it refers to a certain loss of public revenue due to the tax exemptions that are only freely granted to the companies. The revenues are not, of course. The loss of public revenue is considered certain. In addition, the annual area allowances provided for in Article 15, and in particular that of EUR 50 per square kilometre, shall be extremistically low. The calculation of the rent referred to in Article 13 will remain the secret, since it includes a large number of conditions and estimates, as will the famous R factor. There is also no clear framework if arbitration is required, in case there are several problems between the two parties. Paragraph 23.6 provides for this astonishing - I would say - and I read it exactly as it says: 'Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce in so far as these rules do not conflict with the provisions of this Convention. In the event of a conflict of this kind, the rules of this Convention shall apply’. These few things that I have just read are inconsistent with the rules of mediation of this Chamber, where, in sixty-four pages, there are no similar subjects, there are no similar facilities. It is granted under paragraph 7 of Article 8, and after the Minister has been given a theoretically unlimited period of time for the removal of the installations, without, of course, providing a reasonable and adequate explanation. It is no longer clear what will eventually be done with the National Social Solidarity Account of L.4162/2013, that is to say whether and with what percentages of the State's income will be fed in favour of the insurance system. Mr President, it is clear from the above that although we are not opposed to the exploitation of our mineral wealth, as a Centro Union, we are obliged to vote 'at present' in all four sanctions, since almost 100% of the same regulatory framework applies to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much Mr Cavadela. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that, in implementation of the resolution of the House of Parliament of 21 February 2018, a 20-member Special Parliamentary Committee, under Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. was established. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as amended by Article 2 of Law 3961/2011, for a preliminary examination for the Mrs 1) Antonio Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Picrammenos, 3) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 4) Andreas Loverdos, 5) Andreas Lykourentzos, 6) Mario Salmas, 7) Spiridon - Adonio Georgiadis, 8) Ioannis Stournaras, 9) Evangelos Venizelos and 10) Georgios Koutromanis on the possible termination of the offences of corruption and bribery and money laundering from criminal activity. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency, will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, will be communicated to the Members referred to, and is read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr Georgios Amyras has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have only heard yesterday that on 2 February the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Juliarakis commissioned the company 'ROTHSCHILD' to provide specialised services with a fee of EUR 3.5 million. Every time we issue a state-owned maturation bond twenty-four months, "ROTHSCHILD" will take another 1.5m euros. Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u29	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u30	What can we do? I'll tell you what to do. We shall follow you, Mr President, as I have heard you, the checks and the lessons of your fellow Chief of the ANELs. So, Mr. Kammenos - I expect to hear, Mr. Stathakis, your reaction - said about 'ROTHSCHILD' in March 2013: 'Remember the right hand - I will not say the name - of the "ROTHSCHILD Foundation", that is to say, those who together with the local traitors set up the story with the memorials and subjugated the Greek people.' Mr Kammens says this about 'ROTHSCHILD'. You have given the 'ROTHSCHILD' job. Now who's the traitor? Are you a traitor, Mr Stathakis, who participates in a government that gave "ROTHSCHILD" a job when Mr. Kammens, your co-pilot, described as traitors who cooperate with "ROTHSCHILD"? And if you think Mr. Kammenos hadn't investigated 'ROTHSCHILD', you're wrong. Listen to the fantasies now - and I'm sorry - on April 30, 2012: "The "ROTHSCHILD" family controls the Bank of Greece and also through it controls the gold of Greece. The new order, which is in charge of Greek sovereignty, has the name ‘ROTHSCHILD’. But what's the matter with you, Mr. Stathakis? Did you leave 'ROTHSCHILD' and give it EUR 3.5 million and another EUR 1.5 million every time it does a job with the Greek State? But they're traitors! They are massons, as they say - I don't know what - local traitors who subjugated the Greek people. So that's what I'm telling you, to see that life has been shooting, but it's also retracted. Now let's go to the draft law. I have to say that the bill is very serious. It has some issues that we absolutely need to see one by one. First of all, the main issue is that Greece continues to move without long-term national energy planning. All the countries of Europe, including non-Europeans, are rapidly adopting and developing the promotion of renewable energy sources other than Greece. Mining of fossil fuels may take ten years. Until then, what policy will you pursue, gentlemen of the government? There is no way, of course, that you will stay in power ten years, but for as long as you stay, what will be the energy design? Mr Stathakis, I would like to ask you specific questions, because in answering these questions we will also make our vote conditional. I have stated a reservation to the committee, because you did not answer specific things, which I shall bring back. But, first of all, in September 2017, you said, Mr Statakis, at an event by the Energy Regulatory Authority that by spring 2018 we will have submitted to the European Union the country's long-term energy planning. Be careful, Minister, there are a few more hours left. It's enough spring with a quick step and we still don't have energy planning. To know, the investigations and, in any case, the fulfilment of the fossil fuels conventions we are discussing are part of this plan? Are they complementary? Is it against the interest of long-term planning for the country's energy? The planet and all developing countries are abandoning the fossil fuel policy. That national energy planning that prefers fossil fuels is obsolete and puts electricity and renewable energy to a second degree. Let's take a walk on this planet to see what's going on. President McCronn has undertaken not to proceed with any new hydrocarbon research on the French territory, to reduce carbon and nuclear emissions, to double the RES in five years' time. President Obama, before leaving, in cooperation with the Canadian Government, banned the extraction of hydrocarbons on giant land in the Arctic and the Atlantic, defeated the great oil pipeline KEYSTONE, while Croatia in our neighborhood, a little further north, "frozen" research on hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, because he chose that we should have hydroplanes and tourists to circulate on our sea rather than fuel platforms. Spain has also excluded large areas of its Mediterranean sea territory from mining, while in Denmark the state-owned oil and gas company has announced that it is gradually abandoning traditional activities to invest in offshore wind power. So this is happening in the world around us, and we here in Greece, a country rich in a dowry of renewable energy, since we have a lot of air, very sun, very wave and intense geothermality, we commit active funds, we commit our country and our efforts to an obsolete economy, that of carbon. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go see the research areas and the possible exploitation, the importance they have and the risks that are created for these natural environments. Ionian Gulf. So, in the Ionian Sea, we have cetaceous, sea turtles, the seabeds, which, according to experts, scientists, environmentalists, nature scientists, scientifically and objectively, can be affected because of seismic wave methods. For seismics, Minister, I would like to tell you that if I have read the bill correctly - and I think I have read it correctly - at the stage of seismic research there is no need for an environmental impact study, even in NATURA 2000 areas. Please note, Minister, the question. It is one of the things I have put you in committee. Tell us: Are companies obliged to prepare and submit environmental impact studies when they do seismic surveys, yes or no? This is the first and fundamental one. Secondly, I told you in committee too, but you did not answer me. You had an spontaneous reaction at the time I mentioned it, but then you didn't answer me about hydraulic cracking, the notorious fracking. Tell us about shale gas. Why does it look nice and happy and smile? I am not talking about you, Minister, but about your advisers. Is any of the things I said cute and smiled at you? Here I tell you that with regard to shale gas internationally they are removed from hydraulic cracking, this method that uses chemicals, which uses sand and water with great pressure, and I ask if Greece will be allowed or not, because as is written in the bill, it is not specified either whether it is forbidden or forbidden. Why don't you clarify it? Why don't you make an amendment, a different legal wording, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u31	It does not concern the four contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u32	He doesn't rule it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Amyras, it's not about the four conventions. We have specific contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u34	Since it doesn't exclude it, how does it not concern them? So I say to you who are supposed to be responsible, who are not, not to your own - to God - but to the government, on environmental issues: why do we not give this security, do we not put this security footage on, make sure that every Amyras has nothing to say and is calm and that no company will really proceed to plumber? So this is the second question I ask you and I want to tell you this. I asked you about compensation. I said that especially at the research stage where there is a significant environmental burden, compensation should be greater. I have also said that rehabilitation in some areas may cost more than compensation revenues, and I ask again and again whether such area and other compensations are at a level similar to what is happening in international practice and especially in northern Europe. I would also like an answer to that. Ladies and gentlemen, the natural environment of Epirus is its greatest vault, it is its greatest value. I am not convinced even of the unanswered answers I have received as to whether there are environmental safety conditions. I also have no idea what the expected financial benefit is for the state. Every company that comes and does its research has put down its algorithms, its calculations, and knows that if we find so much fuel in that index, we will have sustainable investment or not. Do we know? Do we have a size class to see what we expect? Let me not go back to the words of Mr Kammenos, your co-chairman, who said of many tens of billions, but who can, however, these evils of 'ROTHSCHILD', with whom you cooperate and give them 3,5 million as a reward, have put aside the country's wealthy productive resources and deprive them of or supervise them for the future. So will you give us a clarification? Are you going to tell us something in budgetary terms? The report says that we will probably have a loss of revenue for the first few years. What's going on? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that there is another environmental issue that you must take into account. In part of the so-called Greek moat, i.e. the sea area west of Corfu, west of the Peloponnese and the Istanbuls of course, south of Crete and later north and east to Samos, a population of whale blowers, two hundred live. It is the largest in the Mediterranean, and indeed there is an international agreement, that Accobams, in which Greece is also involved, has proposed the Greek moat as a plant of great importance for the whale population, one of the most important plant protection areas. I would like to say this: take care, with what we are going to vote today, that we do not actually demolish all the laws on protection for this marine region. In fact, in the last two years, I have been struggling to shift the voyages, the lines of boats going to Crete by a few nautical miles, so that a population of two years of whale blowers who are dead, hit by propellers of large boats can be rescued and we are in contact with international maritime organisations. We're going to make the suggestion to the Ministry of Shipping. I've asked questions. We're already doing a serious job. I mean, do not all that we do on the one hand or in cooperation with others, they are suddenly demolished because there is a failure in oil exploitation and extraction. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also an opportunity, if we proceed with these conventions. There is an opportunity to create a number of specialized scientists and especially young people who will be trained in fossil fuels with the aim of innovation and innovation in research and, above all, to reduce the environmental impact of research and the extraction of fossil fuels. Greece must set targets and priorities with this energetic design for the long term, which we are listening to for three years and three years is not possible, like the bridge of Arta. We need to follow the position of developed countries to carbonise the economy, to strengthen renewable energy sources, to electricity, to promote public transport, to upgrade and save energy and to develop the cyclical economy. I still keep my watch, Minister. I expect to hear your answers to the specific questions I have put to you and on the basis of your replies, we will also decide our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Amyras. We will continue with the parliamentary representatives. He has asked for the floor for Mr Saridis to speak first. But I see he's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr. President, may I speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u37	Yes, if you will, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, with today's ratification we are opening a new page, I could say, in the chapter on the use of hydrocarbons. Greece today finds its stepping-up, a common stepping-up with countries in the wider region such as Cyprus, Israel and Egypt, which have made significant progress in this area, through a very important and decisive development of the South-East Mediterranean area in a potential hydrocarbon production area. Let me remind you that the country's energy strategy is somewhat clear and given. This is obvious since we have signed the Paris Agreement, and at the same time we are from the European countries calling for energy planning in 2030 for the European Union. I am giving my parable to respond to the supposed delay in energy planning. Energy planning will be submitted by all European countries in 2018 within the framework of the commitments we will make and the objectives that we will co-decide on in the European Union in 2030 and 2050. I say this because it is an energy planning that all countries are obliged to do, which has a certain way of doing, a structure and captures quantitative indicators and energy policy measures in order to achieve these indicators and a number of other things. So, it's a specific, I'd say, energy design form, which we're supposed to do. I would remind you that the Greek Commission started its work last week. I am ending this parenthesis, and I say: in view of the fact that Greece claims that Europe must achieve high targets for the involvement of RES and energy savings, the two pillars for 2030 and binding for all countries, it goes without saying that our strategy will go to a very large penetration of RES by 2030, around 50% and that our energy mix will change and much more will be done to energy savings. Under these conditions and under these conditions I think that while the energy strategy is given, the issue of hydrocarbons has a separate element, because all this transition - and with which we agree - will also have hydrocarbons in the long transition period of thirty to forty years. The position of the economists, who are legally against the use of hydrocarbons, is therefore absolutely respected. I think that we should respect their position of status, but also their contribution to the way in which all energy issues are discussed in general, or to the reduction of nuclear energy with what is now being done in Germany and elsewhere, either in coalisation or in the idea that our world, economies and societies can move much faster in another direction. So this side is absolutely respected. I'm coming back to the government. The government has been committed from the outset to making use of hydrocarbons, a huge element of wealth. We must therefore proceed with coordinates and lead to the best possible use of this wealth of our territory. I'm just going to stand by the way we approached. It is clear that the legislation had precedented and that the notices on the twenty plots had also been preceded. But, once again, I would point out the difference in the way we are approaching from the previous governments: and then the notice was different, with results that we need to assess, because on most plots there was interesting, but also the way in which it appeared to Greek citizens as the new Eldorado of Greece, which also gave terrible figures for the future. Away from us, therefore, contrary to the fact that, over the last three years and today, we will not celebrate either figures or promises of a future Eldorado - we have not done so in the past, and we will not do so today - and we will confirm, once again, that we are dealing with this issue with methodicity, seriousness and sobriety, particularly transparency and special care for the strict protection of the environment. Today, first of all - and we must all be in this direction - we must have a better picture of the eyes, their kind and the possibilities that exist. Without this image, I think that any other futureology tends to become problematic. The second important thing is that we have for the first time a significant involvement of international energy groups. The contracts which we now bring to ratification are with two very important companies worldwide the French 'TOTAL' and the Italian 'EDISON'. At the same time, the interest in research and exploitation in Crete, as you know, emerged just a few months ago from EXXON MOBIL, which proceeded on record time: The work that our country had to do was published for three months in Europe, in the European Union newspaper. The notice of invitation to tender is closed on 5 March. And I would remind you that very soon we will have to complete the tender procedure. At the same time, with the second use of these, step by step, with the participation of the conventions that we are bringing today and southern Crete, all the other land, which - I repeat - in our view, hasty first notice has been left without interest, we are gaining new data on them and possibly redesigning them, so that they can be investigated more reliablely if they have a perspective and we can re-open it in a different way. Now, I'm going to the issues relating to this institutional framework. As you know, best practices in other countries, particularly - I repeat - Norway and Cyprus, were part of our debate and our know-how and they were part of the negotiations, especially for 'Block 2' and, therefore, today the additional gaps that may exist in the existing legal framework are being studied so that our legislation is fully aligned - I repeat - above all, with the legislation of Cyprus, which we have studied very much, and with Norway's practices. I would remind you that there has been no delay. Previous contracts signed in 2014 have taken six months to come to Parliament. To clarify something else in terms of contracts as they are today. The criticism was heard by the New Democracy. The main laws that do not need to be incorporated into the conventions, but have force and do not exist in this sense in the conventions - concern L.4374/16, 4403/16-, which incorporated the Directives of the European Union 2013/50 and 2013/34 respectively on transparency and disclosure of company data and statements - are already laws of the State which apply, without having to repeat them in the body of the conventions. So there is no gap in these conventions. With regard to both models, the law existing by the previous government provides for both models. I'm reminding you. It is the lease contract, please agreement, the ones we apply as a country and the current ones that come to be ratified, and the production contract, production Share agreement. The public there also participates in the farm, but it also shares any risk. I said it on the occasion of various newspapers in the conservative press. One joke I said and took it very seriously, that in general the conservative press tends not to recognize the good things the government does. Now, for example, in the ratification of the conventions, because it's probably a good thing, it seems, some in the conservative press that they could denounce the government that it thinks 'the Venezuelan model'. Venezuela's got a bad sign lately, I guess. I made the joke because they did not write "model Cyprus" thought Minister Stathakis and SYRIZA for the future, because Cyprus also applies the same model. To come back seriously and to put what I have said to you and to the committee immediately. Rental contracts are more suitable for immature economies, which have not accumulated know-how, experience and, above all, are related to the financial data of each farm. It is therefore the most appropriate form and it is used. On the contrary, production contracts apply primarily to those that have or have very large stocks - they are known - or have accumulated technology or are chosen by these countries, and that is why I have mentioned for a long time the Arab countries that use it, Venezuela, also used it. Remember the historical data, all the political conflict in Venezuela took place on this matter, because Venezuela since '50 has had the promotion Share Agreement. In the 1990s, with various American pressures, he went to the agreement. The conflict between the two political poles in Venezuela concerned the reintroduction of the proliferation Share agreement that took place with Chaves. So instead of ideologiing various people with all this and not recognising certain things that have to be done as they are, it is good to clarify that once again. The agreements are all please agreement and the next will continue to be please agreement until it is determined by any political leadership in the future that there are conditions of a more beneficial situation, considering the second model. I repeat the legislator has both models inside. Now, who manages all this and the contracts etc.Huh? As you know, the "ELLENIC MANAGEMENT CONTRIBUTION OF HYDROGONALS" provided for in the '11 practically had not been put into operation. She was practically inactive. We mobilized this company, I mean it was appointed president, CEO, Vice President, etc. Date of birth: (a) 1 January 1964, (b) 1 January 1964, (c) 1 January 1964, (d) 1 January 1964, (d) 1 January 1964, (e) 1 January 1964, (f) 1 January 1964, (f) 1 January 1964, (g) 1 January 1964, (g) 1 January 1964, (g) 1 January 1964, (g) 1 January 1964, (g) 1 Today it has a status, a secretariat, a legal counsellor, a skilled staff and so on. We, as a Ministry, have been gradually transferring from the respective address of the Ministry, all the responsibilities and content that the EDPS is now planning to administer since last May. The EDPS will obviously work with greater flexibility. It is more similar to the private sector. It remains under the supervision of our Ministry and at the same time the safety issues - I will stand down to the environment - are also part of a first substantial study by the EDPS with the Norwegians. In fact these days, the first results are presented. Therefore, the EDPS will take de facto into account the entire management of this issue, which has so far been carried out by the Ministry. We're going to environmental protection. From the outset we had raised the issue of being compatible with the other activities of the country, tourism and many others. There are too many too many fears. I would remind you that the Prenos region has been the subject of use for decades. That's where we got the back. It did not prevent the development of tourism, which was very important in the wider region of Kavala. Therefore, there are conditions, as long as there are the rules and the safety that the implementation of our legislation must produce. I think we have done two things: firstly, Greece has fully incorporated it - I stress the 'full' - of all the relevant European legislation that is the strictest internationally produced after the international accidents. Therefore, it has incorporated a very large part of additional security mechanisms, extremely important. What does that mean between the others? Companies are invited from the outset to draw up large-risk plans and this concerns each operating unit which must have drawn up its own plan to address potential risks and be part of the control carried out on the operation of these units. I put forward a document on this subject. [[At this point the Minister for Environment and Energy Georgios Stathakis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, environmental studies shall be carried out successively for each individual stage and for each activity that occurs in all phases. The contraaor shall also have the obligation to establish a separate unit of environment in each installation. Wherever there is an installation, there should be an environment unit that has been included in the establishment plan, which must have been provided and which must be in constant contact with the local communities and have freely available to all interested parties all the data collected. From what my colleagues have said, this is also about protection from marine species which are part of this process. In other words, there should be special care, in consultation and in cooperation with relevant bodies who are aware of this issue. For the NATURA regions, as you know, Greece is at 28%. The previous contracts contained specific provisions for NATURA but were more descriptive. This scheme applies to the three of the conventions that we are bringing today. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a few minutes, Mr President, so that I can make a little criticism of the New Democracy, which I very much like to attack lately. The Greek peculiarity maintains even more stringent arrangements. This one - I am referring to Block 2 - explicitly excludes the NATURA areas and includes a safety zone of one kilometre of them. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I would also remind you that one of the bills which will come to Parliament very soon also concerns maritime planning. It is a new bill - which we owe as a country to introduce. I think we are the last country in Europe that has not introduced it. With regard to 'fracking', I would like to assure you that none of the conventions provide for implementation. It is not going to be exploited by the fracking method. Beyond our clear position, this is not acceptable. Experts say they don't have geological formations that require it. It is open to the future - in other legislation, of course - to catch up with the concerns expressed by the last speaker and friend. The benefits for society have been formulated. The reward benefits of the research, I think, have been analysed by the rapporteurs. So I can close my speech with a small attack on the New Democracy, because it raised a question that we are not making its policy. I have been listening to this for three years. I'm really sorry that the government changed in 2015 and you didn't win, but we won. By winning us, even on the issue of privatisation, we do other things than what we inherited from you: We inherited the "little" PPC and canceled it. We move on to the disinvestment of PPC, with a different project, in our opinion, much better than the "little" PPC we canceled. We took the privatisation of IPTO on your own terms and canceled it. We made IPTO 51% public while you sold 66%. We've brought a strategic investor with an extremely high price. It was a different kind of approach. With the DESA, you had made a privatisation that remained late. You said it was our fault that he stayed late, because the bad Minister of the Time changed something into legislation. In the meantime, it has been found that Europe has approved it. Today is the end of the new TESC competition. I hope that in a few days' time we will be able to compare what was different from one or the other. You've eaten us with the Greek two years: bypassing the archaeological service, bypassing the forests, following irregular procedures. Today, the presidential decree was signed with the approval of the CoR, with all the legal procedures in place, with the approval of the Central Archaeological Council, with the approval of the Central Board of my Ministry, with the approval of the Ministry of the Environment and so on. So, yes, there are differences. In all things there are differences. The "Aster" three times had been rejected by the CF. We did it and it goes on. It finally starts immediately. Big hits. The Plato Academy itself, etc. So the answer is very simple, I never thought that you in the New Democracy could deal with these issues with credibility, with transparency and above all with efficiency. Sadly, in these matters, as today, the Government shows us another way that the citizens will appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to thank you, too, for having kindly asked you to come forward, because that is how I had the opportunity to hear your position, and in particular - I must tell you - the conclusion of your position, your references to the New Democracy, and I feel very pleased. If I understood, Minister, the main core of this catastrophe, which is very thankful to you, since you have told us that you have recently liked to attack the New Democracy, it has to do with being more efficient than us in privatisation. That's what you said. You said that you received the things that we were not enough and correct and that you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u41	Okay, now. Okay. 'Differently' I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u42	At PPC, of course, how you have succeeded in keeping it, but in any case that is not the concept of today's debate. The Greek is bored that you are doing it very quickly. You said in general that for your days the people will appreciate the investment projects which you are carrying out. It is not as you say, but I have no problem welcoming you to a new era of thought and inviting you to actually, which you obviously did not miss until 2015, but several ministers of the government, in which you join, ignore until today. For example, I, for example, have seen a Minister crying - even by reason - on the Greek issues, I have seen a Minister crying on the issues of privatisation. I sincerely say to you that I am very pleased that you are coming today and you tell us that we are entering the noble field of competition in terms of efficiency in privatizations. I am sure that the dialogue in the future will take place precisely at this level: who is good at privatisation, who is good and helping the free economy, etc. By the way, of course, I also welcome the peace with which you have expressed yourself and made your speech, because the day does not allow it to happen. If I'm not deceived, your government is minus two other ministers. In fact, today the legislation we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, is being done in a luxurious and slow process. You would have noticed that the program was for one hour only. What we are doing at the moment is that we also cover the time of the other legislation, which the Minister for Development, Mr Papadimitriou, had signed, and which, of course, was lifted in vain because it did not bear the signature of an existing minister. We also cover the general situation of the government, which I would not say is important, Minister. I have no reason to refer to the legislation in particular. I have no reason to refer to the legislation, because our rapporteur, Mr Katsafandos, has diligently and fully done so. What I would like to say, however, and which I have noticed in the Minister's speech, is that it has spent about two and a half minutes to surpass tenderness and love among the two colleagues who are voting against the legislation, to state absolute respect for their views, understanding, almost proud of the fact that they are voting against the legislation that is being proposed. It is also one way to rule: to thank those who are voting against your legislation and, I imagine, not to thank those who are voting for it. This is also a way of constantly contradicting us in the future, Minister. I would simply like to say to you that the situation of the Greek economy is depicted in the Greek bond. If I'm well told today, it's 4.37%. The situation in Portugal, in order to take another country that has come out of the memorandum, today is 2.1%. I mean, we're a hundred percent worse than the Portuguese. I imagine and this is something that a government can proudly say 'we in the economy are tearing up and so on'. I do not want to consume much of my fellow Members' time, but I would like to take this opportunity, because as a Parliamentary representative I also have to have a broader view of things, to refer to the more general climate in Greece these days. I am referring to what you all know about public security issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the Hermos route was vandalised last night. And if I am well informed, there has also been an occupation in 'SYNEI', but that is why I am not sure. I'm sure you'll know better. But that's how they informed me. You also know that yesterday there was a bomb in Glyfada, which was the following and was similar to the other bomb in Maroussi a few days ago. Also, the day before yesterday there was a murder in Fokion Negri. A grenade took place at the Cesarean Police Department, and it was such a vigilance that the grenades were perceived later, even as clearing accounts - if possible! - Orchard shop. The dean of the University of Athens was also taken over and the chrysayites attacked an anti-opposite post, where a colleague in the law, Mrs. Eleftheria Tobazoglou, was injured. For those who do not know it, I would like to say that it is the colleague who is conducting the political trial for the murder of Paul Bryssa. On 25 February we had something that I think is a pan-European originality. I've never heard of it before. There was intervention by anti-semitists outside the house of Mr Papademos, the former Prime Minister. What was the object? We're protesting against the victim's switching the bomber to death. That, frankly, has never been heard, at least it has not arrived in my ears, in Europe or in another country in the civilised world, of inviting the victim to turn this mortal. Also, of course, a few days ago there had been another "intervention" outside the house of Ephetos Klapas. And all of this - I refer to the last ten days, don't think I'm flattered - I'd like to add several molotovs this weekend, but that's what gets used to it. It is an element of the tourist destination called the Athens Center. So, Minister, these are the examples of a country which returns to normality in the government. In fact, I can only recall here the angry presence of Mr. Tsipras, two months ago, on the day before Mr. Mitsotakis caused, where he addressed Mr. Mitsotakis strongly, denounced him, almost because he had provoked the debate, as if there were no matters of public security in Greece. In fact, in order to avert Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister had done this unbelievable. He had invoked six-month data as elements, that is, he took half-year figures, presented them as elements of the year and told Mr Mitsotakis that we have a reduction in all indicators. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to return to the seriousness and sad event, there is currently no public security in the country, as there is no penitentiary system at present in the country. That's the reality. We all understand that this is an issue that goes through society and is an essential element of a European country. Of course, I have heard the Minister defend Venezuela, indirectly, in the first mention of his word, immediately, in a second mention of his word. I imagine that's a remnant of the old SYRIZA. He may have escaped or some of his associates have realised that the times have changed and the first part of the talk was about privatisation, he put it there. However, because we do not intend to turn Greece into Venezuela, I would suggest to the Government - and I say this very seriously - that it should come back to reality. This cannot be tolerated. The New Democracy is obliged to do everything it can to defend, with its own constitutional role, the property, life, the integrity of Greek citizens. The situation, as it stands, cannot be tolerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u43	Thanks for the time economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u45	You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u46	Minister, I just wanted to clarify something about environmental studies. Only the strategic environmental impact study has been carried out. It's not the individual.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u47	Every piece...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u48	Yes, but research has already started on various parts of Epirus, without being accompanied by individual environmental studies. What do you have to say about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I am a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, but coming from the Greens, and today I will talk about the position of ecology, about the Greens' position on these issues that we are discussing. We are talking about the Settlement of the lease agreements with oil companies for four regions of the country, Arta, Preveza, Ioannina, Northwest Peloponnese and the marine region, in Ionian, northwest of Corfu. These conventions concern the allocation of research rights as well as the exploitation of hydrocarbons. As I said at the committee meeting, the position of the Green Party and our two MPs, Giorgos Diaras and George Tsironi, as economists and members of the Green Economies, is negative. Our decision is to vote against the bill. The Greens are opposed to the extraction of hydrocarbons and in general, especially for these regions. And for these regions, of course, it is contrary to the Ecological Movement of Patras, many actors of Epirus, the WWF, etc. It is at the heart of political ecology to protect nature, to act against climate change, and to build a sustainable economy. This is also a question of principle for the European Greens, but also for the global Green Movement. Our opposition is based on the following reasons: First and foremost reason is the immediate need for changes in the energy model, to address the problem of global climate change. It is a problem for all of us, but also for the next generations. Oil mining must be a past, especially because our country is rich in energy resources and renewable sources. That is why we insist that the new long-term energy planning should have taken place with much faster steps to rehabilitate than fossil fuels. It is a common place now how significant climate change poses the greatest risk to the planet and human life on it. For the first time, it seems an environmental problem to threaten the natural foundation of societies. The reaction of mankind to this day, however, is completely reproachful. What is lacking is the determination of the governments of most states to move directly and jointly towards the necessary policy changes in the most important areas of economic activity in order to effectively protect the global climate. Greenhouse gas emissions are not just the cause of climate change. It is the symptom of dirty, wasteful and irrational production and consumption model that has been followed for decades. The unprecedented climatic threat we face must be converted into an opportunity for a comprehensive reassessment of this model. It must lead to a redefinition of what we mean prosperity and transgenic justice. It must lead to a direct shift in our economies in a sustainable direction. Such a shift will also lead to an exit from the current economic and social crisis, creating millions of green jobs. In addition, it will minimise energy, political and economic dependence on countries producing fossil fuels. The effects of global warming are becoming more and more noticeable and are already leading to the desertification of vast areas in many areas. It is no coincidence that by 2013 and the refugee crisis due to the Syrian war, climatic refugees were the most populous group of refugees. Thousands of our fellow humans who couldn't grow their land, flee their land in search of better luck. Greece, according to UN figures, belongs to the eighteen most vulnerable regions of the world because of climate change. The most decisive consequences will be to reduce rainfall, intensity of weather phenomena and rapid evaporation and soil non-absorption. We will have accelerating the desertification effects of areas, reducing agricultural production, reduced river flow and the availability of water resources, while forests will be vulnerable to destructive major fires. The rise in average temperature will be accompanied by more frequent and more intense heat waves. France has banned mining in land and sea. Also, Norway, while it has made a containment programme, is now fully abolished. And we must say that for many years Norway has been producing all electricity from renewable energy sources and is even exporting electricity. So we can't compare. The second reason why we oppose the extraction of hydrocarbons in our country is the serious environmental risks. They are directly linked to mining in land areas such as Epirus, where research is already progressing with effects on the stock of groundwater. We consider the dangers of hydrocarbons extracting in the seas, of rich biodiversity, of fish stocks and of the effects on tourism. We are well aware that there is no concept of absolute protection. And our concern is growing constantly, because as a country we have serious shortcomings in the existing legal framework and supervisory and control mechanisms. As an international experience, it is even negative in countries that have a better organisation of control mechanisms. A characteristic example is the great catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico, but also our accident, the Saronics, which has not occurred since the mining process, but ships go and come by transporting and densizing the transport of minerals and fuels. The third reason why we are opposed to the extraction of hydrocarbons is that we do not believe in the final economic benefits of mining if all the factors are taken into account. We believe that there are negative effects on existing, but also on developing parallel economic activities such as tourism, the production of quality products, etc. The idea is that the country's economic problem will be solved by this oil and hydrocarbons extraction process. We also emphasise that cumulative and simultaneous ratification of concessions in many regions of the country is not an option that has economic viability characteristics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will end in two minutes. The fourth reason is moral responsibility, a sense of law against the next generations. In view of this, we are expressing our disagreement with the signed conventions and voting against, as I and Mr Chironis have said, this bill. We know that we are opposed to the dominant political concept, which is a position of almost all parties. This is the fundamental difference in the politics of ecology and the green echoes that question the dominant productive model and the life model that this model has shaped. The solution for a sustainable energy economy is a general reorientation of economic resources and labour to energy savings, buildings, transport, industrial production, and a greater shift in renewable energy sources with decentralised characteristics. In this direction, too, the law for energy communities was rightly passed. Colleagues, in our hands is the future of the planet, in the hands of every citizen, every Member of Parliament, every minister, and it is a matter of responsibility. "Love the responsibility, say, "I alone have a duty to save the earth. If it is not saved, it is my fault'. Nikos Kazantzakis. We are saying that we are voting against the bill, but I would also like to make two comments. Mr Arvanitides says that other delays in action and the extraction of hydrocarbons will not forgive us. Reply: World History, Mr. Arvanitidis, will write "blacks" pages about the absurdity of "the future beings", which people are said to be, because fools cut off the branch where they were sitting, because by their own deeds they were led to self-destruct, thanks to a false prosperity that is not prosperity. It is the welfare of psychiatric institutions and the impoverishment of the vast majority of the world population. I would like to say to Mr. Katsafados that he refused me the constitutional right...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Dimitras, finish it up. I imagine the economists are in favour of the good use of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. He denied me the constitutional right to vote consciously, based on the fundamental principles of ecology policy. Why? Because my attitude escapes the leading model of his party and the refusal to differentiate the powers of parliament and government that we believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The sanctions which come to Parliament to take the form of a formal law, of course, on technical and economic terms, have already been discussed, both in committee and in plenary. My objection is the lack of information, which has emerged in the way you legislate. I am more specific: they are not international sanctions, international conventions in the country, so that we can say that we will be able to discuss them quickly in Parliament and adopt them as a law. They are sanctions, they are essentially private law contracts between the Greek State and companies and therefore had the content, in order to follow the ordinary procedure in the committees, to listen to the views of the bodies, to process and be accompanied by a text of legislation and not only to come an article and to say that the convention, which has already been concluded, is now in force, for which Parliament has no longer had to say, but 'yes' or 'no'. So the role of the House in this procedure is limited, because either one can reject or accept as a whole. Intervention in the text of the contract cannot be made. After all, these contracts have already become binding for the Greek State as a private investor. And questions begin. Was it necessary? You will tell me, international practice imposes this on me many times. However, we do not reach the point where we remove parliamentary powers. I shall therefore say two examples. Here we discussed the manner of rent, what will be the calculation of the rent, whether it will be with production in kind or whether it will be against financial compensation. It was something that could be discussed and analysed. However, in the way that comes, there is no possibility of a debate and, on the contrary, the state is committed to the future to follow the same model again, even if the conditions are differentiated, they change or are judged on the road that the model chosen was unsuccessful, because we will now start to violate the principle of equality. I'll give another example. These companies, known as the oil companies, are transformed daily. This is just consortia. They don't even have most, legal, same, personality. Trade will begin in the future, transfer percentages, transfer rights. Does the Greek state have any reason to deny or simply follow the stalked one, and we will say that the company - not to mention the names of the companies - transferred from 20% to the consortium at a rate of 20% - I know that - 500 million or 1 billion, from which it will never take a state? The state will never get it. We have no objections, of course, to the use of hydrocarbons. However, we object to the concept of minimum performance in the State, because at least - I am speaking personally at the moment - the return of the exchange is minimal. Of course, you will respond to me, yes, because after research work has been carried out, we cannot have the results pre-emptively and therefore have the merit of the result rather than of the compulsory nature of the contracts. However, it has the sovereign power to grant rights to investigations at the outset and then to reserve the right to negotiate, in any case, a minimum outline of terms described by the research contract. In other words, the concession may be a concession agreement for the future, subject to conditions. Here comes a package, which says seven years of research in three stages, then it will follow a stage of twenty-five years of exploitation, if and if there are the results and they are considered satisfactory, with two five-year extensions. However, the terms of the lease of terms have been agreed even a little alternative since now. I think that this is too early and simply gives the right, and perhaps it is also an incentive for other future concessions, but in my own personal view - and I will insist - it does not guarantee the interests of the Greek State, particularly in the hydrocarbon sector, because we do not know what is hidden. We don't know that. Some minor preliminary investigations have been carried out, but further investigations are necessary. Let's go down. This is all I would insist that they should have joined in a draft national strategy on mineral resources. We are talking about a draft national energy strategy. Indeed, days ago, the Government published an act of the Ministerial Council, which is an act of the Ministerial Council which is a national energy and climate committee. I read it. It's a public service branch. A national committee with 9/10 Secretary-General, political positions and one or two private experts, cannot be formed again by the Minister. I have the feeling that they can't pay off. It is necessary, at least for hydrocarbons, given the geopolitical position of Greece, given the atmosphere around or the intensity that exists and the energy passages that will exist in the future, to have a national strategy and not to rush now to concession. We must grant, but also reserve for sovereign rights. I cannot accept that international practice provides for the fact that we are not making use of the strategic point at which Greece is located. We accept formal agreements, which are of the oil companies - I have to say - because I have read the terms. Unfortunately, I couldn't read all four. I read one at least and saw the terms were identical. So we cannot impose conditions. We do not have a draft national strategy on mineral wealth - I am exhorting myself, Mr President - and I am ending, as we have not had a plan for the mineral wealth of mineral and quarry products, of quarry minerals. It came a month ago - and less perhaps - a law, which put in place provisions concerning structural reforms - says - of the economic adjustment programme and substantially changed the operation of the quartz activity in Greece, which is one of the few not in need of bank borrowing, which do not have overdue businesses, which have a prospect of exporting. And what did he do? All it has achieved - of course, this will be debated in the future very much - is to hostage existing healthy businesses. I should now like to reflect on whether there was any intention of changing the scene now in this area. I do not know, I do not support it, but I do not reject it. If, therefore, we also follow such skin actions on hydrocarbons, I fear that we do not serve the interests of the country and do not achieve the desired result. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Cassidiaris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u56	I will start with the complaint of a terrorist attack, which took place this morning in Heraklion, Crete, where a criminal gang, a criminal organization, a raid on the extreme left, at 8.00 this morning, at a peak hour, attacked the offices of the Golden Dawn Party in Heraklion Crete, causing serious damage. They broke the door with axes and barbecues and then went up from the outer stairs on the first floor and destroyed the offices inside. Police escort! No arrest, no appeal with the absolute coverage of the SYRIZA Government! There was, of course, no condemnation by the political parties. For these attacks, the terrorist attacks against the Golden Dawn, are butter at the bread of the resistance parties, which are currently running Greece. I have heard from the New Democracy before whispering something about the Golden Earnings attack. That's what the New Democracy spokesman says, 'cause he'll be invited to tell the court when we sue him. And you know, in urban, there's no parliamentary immunity coverage. There is no cover given by Tsipras by not bringing the proceedings of the New Democracy, such as the case-file for Samaras and his orders to prosecutors for the convicts of Golden Dawn MPs. New Democracy, its representative, will come to us about these false, unscrupulous and wretched slanderings that it has unleashed against us. So let's go to today's issue, which is a major issue for Greece's economy and for our national independence. It's the question of energy. For decades the Golden Dawn has been shouting that the basis for the blooming of the Greek economy is energy, it is hydrocarbons, it is oil and natural gas, which are enclosed in the Exclusive Economic Zone. Once, when we talked about these, we were fascists and pigs, according to the political system of corruption. Today, when everyone, all international forces, all international loan sharks, all the universities in the world, have confessed that within the exclusive Economic Zone of Greece there is a treasure of mineral wealth, no one speaks. And here the numbers are specific. As far as AOZ is concerned, as far as the underwater wealth of Greece is concerned, it is no coincidence that today's bill only refers to western Greece, to the area of Ioannina, Katakolos, Elias and dare not, of course, to make any reference to the golden underwater area south of Crete, to the famous Herodotus basin, which is the natural continuation of the deposits of the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone, for which so much noise has been made in the media lately. So in this particular area, for which neither the SYRIZA Government dares to say a word, nor the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK previously, according to Greek university professors, according to the praisers, there are huge energy deposits. In particular, Professor Foskolos speaks of three and a half billion cubic metres of natural gas, namely - I translate into money - $437 billion in twenty-five years' work, three hundred thousand jobs in primary and secondary sectors. Abraham Zelidis, professor of Geology at the University of Patras, has been talking about covering Europe's energy self-sufficiency for decades from the Herodotus basin. Here, of course, the German state no longer comes because they know that they need Greek deposits to break Russia's monopoly. In order to feed the German industry and the economy need Greek deposits. The cost of the $437 billion, which Professor Foscolos says, has been estimated for five years and Deutsche Bank has been. In fact, today the Germans are sending again oceanography. They again send a ship to do the relevant surveys south of Crete, in the Exclusive Economic Zone of Greece. There is a huge interest in energy giants and the work there can only be done with two. It can't be done with the Italians either. It was a complete mistake to give Plot 3 of the Cypriot EEZ to the "ENI" and the Italian state, because the Italians do not do this. It proved to be a few. The French were much more consistent. The French Navy with a fry kept the drilling of "TOTAL". The Italians were not able to do that. The work in Herodotou basin, in Greek EOZ, can only be done with EXXONMOBIL or GAZPROM, with whoever actually bids. See how fragile international balances are. The Russians a year ago and something about the dismantling of the Sukhoi Su -24 from Turkish Air Force was a step before the war with the Turks and today seems to be Turkish partners. Economic interests are the ones that determine developments on the international geopolitical chess board and here Greece with this huge weapon in its hands should negotiate equally with the two superpowers, the Americans and the Russians, who will do this work with us. Of course, how can such negotiations be negotiated if the House has not yet dared to vote for the law that the Golden Dawn since 2012 has submitted to the relevant Ministry, the Law on the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone? On a single day, the Greek Parliament can vote by an absolute majority to declare the Greek EEZ based on the Law of the Sea, based on the principle of average line for the region from the estuary of Evros to Kastelorizo, because according to the International Law of each resident island, every resident island is entitled to EEZ. Under the Law of the Sea Turkey has no press in the Aegean Sea and in the Eastern Mediterranean and remains excluded on its shores. This is very simple and must be done and can be done in one day. Vote of the first bill tabled by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, entering the Greek Parliament: "Reopening of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone". Greece is thus becoming a sovereign power in the Eastern Mediterranean. Subsequently, the signing of contracts with Egypt and Cyprus, recognized by Greek Laws, which recognise the Law of the Sea, which recognise the Exclusive Economic Zone delimited by the Megisti complex and which exclude Turkey on its coast. Egypt and Cyprus and the proclamation of EEZ in the Greek Parliament. And what they were saying about partnership with the State of Israel proved to be the most recent developments in the Cypriot EEZ, the greatest fraud. They advertised operations of special Israel's forces on Mount Troodos and axis of Athens - Nicosia - Tel Aviv. And now that the Turks have sent two corvettes to the EEZ of Cyprus, the Jews have disappeared. This case, therefore, is a complete case and there is no need to talk about any Greek partnership with Israel. Greece, with its powers - which are sufficient - can impose the application of international law in the Eastern Mediterranean and can and must declare the twelve nautical miles, so that the Aegean Sea becomes a closed Greek sea. There, of course, is the Turkish casus belli. And here the question we have to answer is whether there is a real threat of war on the part of Turkey, that is, if the Turks dare to make war against Greece, because the channels advertise Erdogan every day, all day we see ridiculous statements and tributes to Erdogan. There is no other TV internationally playing so much Erdogan in the news releases as Greek television. And that is no accident, because there is an unorthodox war, there are huge Turkish funds that have entered Greek channels on a communication level. A co-worker of Alafouzos is a Turk, who depresses the masses in Greece with some stupid and low-level reality games, with certain misery that they want to bend the national mind of the Greeks, and at the same time we see Erdogan presenting soldiers - boys and girls - and threatening Greece with war. What, then, is the question - in a case of Greek-Turkish conflict? Who will win in a possible Greek-Turkish war? Here I begin my analysis with a basic precedent: the field of war - Evros, islands and Cyprus - does not favour the development of large powers. In other words, it does not favour Turkey, which has a quantitative superiority, but is not qualitative towards the Greek Armed Forces. So in this case, victory in a possible Greek-Turkish conflict, according to the great professor Kodilis, will be judged by the first decisive blow. It will, in other words, be judged at war lightning level. And here I call on the patriotism of the Chief of HNDGS and the Chiefs of Arms. I'm not talking about politicians, I'm not talking about the disgusting, ridiculous, comedy image that the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence gives, which is to really laugh. It's like the Seferlis at the Delfinaris, as the Kammenos appears in the units. He also had Tsipras wearing a variant next time. These people are fugitives and unscrupulous, and I'm not talking about them. I'm referring to the Greek officers. The solution to the victory of Greece in a possible conflict with Turkey is to transfer Greek forces to Cyprus, is to park the upgraded Greek F -16 block 52+ in Cyprus, the S 300 missiles. Thus, the strategic depth of Greece is tripled. So, as the Condylis said, we could directly target and give strong blows to Turkey's soft revolt. This also supports the doctrine of the Golden Dawn for foreign policy, the doctrine of the'strategic depth'. In 1922 we lost the war because we arrived to Ankara, because that was where we had to get the kemalis to hit their bases. Still, it wasn't victory, even if we occupied Ankara. Today, if they transfer enough Greek forces to Cyprus, then we can strike beyond Ankara, we can hit the bases of Turkish Air Force, which are at the bottom of Asia Minor with F-16 block 52+, with Mirage 2000-5, flying the Scalp missiles, which are Cruise missiles, which can set targets and destroy targets, airports, infrastructures over six hundred kilometres. This is the Golden Dawn strategy. Of course, with this strategy, as I am analyzing, we can strike the Turkish Air Force before its aircraft are lifted by airports, as the Jews did in the Six Day War and caught the Egyptians and Syrians in their sleep and destroyed them at their base. From there on, Greece has strategic weapons, which Turkey does not yet have, such as submarine type 214, which are anaerobically propelled, that is, for ten days they can be under the sea surface and invisible. And these can destroy the Turkish fleet at its base. What was not done in 1821, when the first phase of the plan of the Philosophy Society was the arson of the Turkish fleet in the port of Istanbul, can easily be done today if we buy torpedoes for these submarines. We have the number one strategic weapon in the world, the most sophisticated submarines in the world, and the disgusting conflict here has not made it possible to have torpedoes of these submarines to destroy the enemy. From there on, on the front of Evros there are the Apache, the aggressive helicopters and the Leopard 2 HEELL. The Turks do not have such a level of tanks. We saw Turkish tanks being destroyed on the front of Afrin, suffering huge damage from Kurdish infantry with mere anti-tank and Erdogan going out crying and saying it's his bad weather - which has 20 degrees of heat - and that he will make tele-directed tanks like Drone, as if the war is a play-station. That's where the ridiculousness of the famous Turkish war machine seems. There are also in the Greek arsenal the automotive firearms Panzer Howitzer. These are very sophisticated systems, the best in the world, with intelligent, self-government ammunition that can hit targets in forty kilometers. In other words, we can bomb Smyrna from our islands. We can advance with the Leopards in East Thrace and bomb Constantinople. We can disembark in Imbros and Tenedo. With this doctrine, the doctrine of power, Greece can respond to Turkish provocation, as with the doctrine of the lightning war and the first mass blow. That is the solution, that is the answer to Turkish aggression. Of course, it could act as a deterrent only a truly national government, which respects and has served the Armed Forces, who loves the country and it can only be one government of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three teachers from the General School of Kranidios Argolidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor. It is all right, Mr Maniatis, and once the ordinary parliamentarians have been ahead of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u58	We can barely welcome the children from Skunk, from Argolida.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u59	We got the hint. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the geopolitical upgrading of our country is a fact. In an area of the Mediterranean, in an area of destabilisation and, unfortunately, civil war - we live with them - the role of our country is essentially stable and peaceful. I say this because we heard war statements in some way before. Our country follows a regular partnership through tripartite meetings between Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Egypt. After seven years of genuinely cruel austerity and recession, it seems our country is beginning to recover development. We have essentially become a hub of importance in the wider Mediterranean region, whether commercial or transit or even energy. This is very serious and has to do with the pipeline policy and the TPA that is going on, with IGB, with discussions on EAST MED and, of course, with the storage of LNG at various parts of the country. Of course, it does not miss us that our aim is always the carbonisation of the climate economy. Our aim is also to address climate change and this will certainly happen through processes of change in the energy mix in the country at the expense of fossil fuels and in favour of renewable energy sources. But the reality today, until we get to this point, is specific. Our country imports 74% of its energy and, on the other hand, the average at European Union level is 54%. With the bill that we are debating today on contracts for the grant of rights for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, I would say that there is actually a course for research, first of all. I stress this, because neither reasonable success story can be accepted from the point of view of the type some people said years ago that we will get out of the crisis by making use of oil and so on. Seriously, with sobriety, we are going on a course for possible hydrocarbons, gas, etc., without celebrating. The certainty will come only after research drilling. That is the scientific view in particular. However, we cannot ignore and not say the great interest in large energy coils - 'ExonMobil, Repsol', etc. - in fact for hydrocarbon exploration in western Greece and the south-west of Crete. Does that indicate what? It now shows the restoration of confidence in the Greek economy. This is very serious, of course, the specific tender procedures, etc. - they'll be in March. We are therefore discussing the ratification of the four agreements granting research and exploitation rights. It is, as we know, about three land areas, Arta, Preveza, Northwest Peloponnese, which were established in the ELPEs and the Aitolo-Carnania region, which was established in ENERGEAN OIL & GAS. The fourth Convention concerns the maritime region west of Corfu, IONIO II, which is enshrined in the ‘TOTAL EDISON’ consortium. All these contracts are based on the law that passed previous governments, L. 4001/2011. However, here I must say that this law, Law No 4001/2011, has reduced the tax provided for by a previous PASOK law on the taxation of oil companies, from 40% to 25%, while at the same time dismantling the public's right to any participation in the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The establishment of ‘ESA’ by the same law did not save the situation, since the company is only a managing authority and, on the other hand, the depreciation policies adopted by the previous governments with regard to ‘ESA’ are specific. Only recently, the “HISE S.A.” acquired staff, thus starting to be able to play its role in the management and control of the good performance of our contracts. In general, it was mentioned before that the contracts were of two types: leasing or distribution of production, i.e. leasing and the other is Production Sharing Agreement for Contract, PSA or PSC. Both types of contracts are provided for by Greek legislation. In this case we have lease agreements. The contraaor undertakes the study of the execution of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons under the contract, and has the exclusive right to do so. The contraaor shall at his own expense have all the technical means required for carrying out the work - materials, personnel and capital - at his own expense and shall carry his business risk throughout the duration of the Convention. The contraaor, irrespective of actual or non-profit, shall pay the lessee as a lump sum part of the hydrocarbon production. Subsequently, it is subject to tax on net taxable income. In our country, on the basis of Law 2289/1995 and Law 4001/2011, the rent in question may escalate, taking into account cumulatively or divorcingly, the amount of production of the geographical, geographical and other characteristics of the region and the rate of revenue and expenditure. The profit tax is set at 25%, of which 5% is intended for local communities. Apart from this, and as the case may be, area allowances, public staff training expenses, bonuses for the signing of the contract and production are paid in the light of the production achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President, I should like to clarify two - three issues, because a lot is being said in the public debate. First of all, in relation to the fracking and the fracking procedures, the hydraulic cracking - and the Minister in particular - I will say that we actually have no mining or any research into slate gas or slate oil, which is a fracking process there, so it is not a question of these contracts. Article 8 also provides for the existence of a special account - I say this because it was mentioned when it was discussed in the committee on the decommissioning and removal of installations - where funds will be cumulated to be used for the dismantling and removal of installations after the end of the period of operation and the restoration of the environment in the former situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now let's go to environmental protection. First of all, I will say that this government in August 2016 incorporated the 2013 directive that the previous governments had in the drawer - we incorporated it in August 2016 - and it concerns safety from offshore hydrocarbons. Also, with regard to the issue of NATURA areas, as the Minister said, the model of contracts is 'block II' in the Ionian Sea, where there is an explicit commitment there. Many have told us that the government has delayed. The previous government was carrying out the three land contracts eight hundred and sixty three days before they were signed. It should be noted that there were objections and legal proceedings in the CEEC and so on. We also heard that we hide the Ionian oil and give it to monopolies. We must say here about the large offshore farms in Europe in the North Sea, as has been said, there the average depth is only fifty to twenty metres. In Cyprus the "Afroditis" look is in depth a thousand six hundred and forty-seven meters, while the area in "block 2" in the Ionian is estimated at eight hundred and a thousand meters. Sadly, so far, there are a few floating drillings around the world that can perform underwater drilling at such depths.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Kafantaris, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please. We're just a few speakers. Let us hope, then, that we are lucky and that we find hydrocarbons in research - and I repeat only by drilling this is verified - so that we can meet much of the needs of the country, without a significant transfer of funds and resources to Gulf Sheikhs in the transition period, which everyone says we will be going to a low-carbon or zero-carbon economy. I would just like to respond to something said by the Representative of the New Democracy, in a criticism of Directive 30 of 2013, which essentially concerns protection against offshore mining.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u63	Please let this conversation be last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. He referred to his position as an independent authority and that we as government did not anticipate these independent principles and so on. I will say from the debate that took place at the time, in 2013, which happened to suggest on the part of SYRIZA that the directive provides for the establishment of an independent authority, but it will be independent from the licensing authority, for the provision of a right of investigation, administrative and financial, but it provides that it is created when there are six offshore facilities, and now in Greece we have one, two in one, the southern Kavala and Prinos, and the Patricios Convention is also starting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u65	You're welcome, Mrs. Kafantari. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u66	So, when there are six offshores, there will also be, on the basis of the directive, the establishment of this independent authority. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u67	The independent authorities why didn't you vote for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u68	I think it was left-wing, Mr. Constantopoulos' position that she should speak as much as Mrs. Kafantaris wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u69	We are a few speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u70	You have the floor, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament's plenary is called on to ratify four conventions granting the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is essentially a great patriotic effort of PASOK, which was a bet on all of us. Who? The use of national hydrocarbon deposits. It is an effort that began in 1995 on PASOK with n. In 1995, the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 2289/95 opening a new chapter in the history of research and hydrocarbons in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, at that time the first international competition was opened and cowardly started - cowardly that the first investigations should take place. However, the initial agreement on the depth of drilling was not followed, so there were no significant findings. Since then, my dear Minister, it took sixteen years until the revision of Law 4001/2011 on government again. Lucky? No, of course not. But why did we come back then? In order to modernise the existing legal framework at the time and to align it with international practices. Ladies and gentlemen, the new legal framework provided for enhanced investment incentives, but also strict environmental clauses and, of course, best practices in conferring research and exploitation rights on hydrocarbons. We, Minister, have created the Greek hydrocarbon producer. It was announced in 2012 on the basis of the new legal framework, an international round of concessions for the three plots: Patraikos, Katakolo, Ioannina and we started to form the new market. Let me remind you that a central role in the development of the new policy was played by the professor and Minister at the time of PASOK Yiannis Maniotis. He was the pioneer of this effort. I feel, therefore, to stress that in 2013, Yiannis Maniotis as Minister for the Environment was introduced to the House by law a mechanism of social solidarity ideally. Suggested what? It recommended the creation of the National Social Solidarity Account by the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons in Norwegian standards. So what? A special account that had nothing more to do with it, but the creation of a reserve. Why would this reserve do that? Would it finance the pensions sector of social security institutions, and especially what? Ensuring the pensions of the new generations. Let us see, then, what this law, the Maniattan Law, foreshadowed. This law provided 75% of public revenue from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons to this national account, as known Social Solidarity Fund. 5% where would he go? It would go to a regional resource, as would 20% in the Green Fund for environmental, development, regional and municipal projects as a small or large reward for local communities. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, the Maniotis Act was a law that put Greece on the development orbit. Ladies and gentlemen, after three years, I would say that the government brings these conventions to the vote in Parliament. You have delayed too much, Minister, but rather late than never, as the wise people say. And where's the "never" going? It goes to the antimony period, I would say, of SYRIZA, when you voted against the first three contracts at the time and declared "residents" in the fourth, speaking of heterogeneous monotony as employees. Because we now do not live in the times of the last century, so that we can say the past, forgotten and given that the Democratic Alliance is the culmination of responsibility, we do not have the logic of opposition to the opposition. We therefore believe that there are great prospects for development in the country by these conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel justified, therefore, that the effort that has been started since my resignation from PASOK is continuing today, by its original critics. Indeed, Minister, it is now on the government's side. Because what? We are aware that our country is turning into an energy player not only of the Mediterranean region, but of the wider region of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it is one: Greece what? Greece has a energy hub, creating a new market with new jobs. Indicative, Minister, is the assessment of the exploitation of the Patras Gulf. So let's see what the Patronian Gulf gives us. The Patronian Gulf gives a hundred million barrels of oil. This means that three hundred to a thousand new jobs are created and EUR 120 to 150 million are paid to the Social Solidarity Fund annually. The public is, of course, expected to receive EUR 3 billion in revenue over twenty-five years. These figures show the great potential for growth. I should also like to point out that the land to be used by the country gives ten times the result of the Gulf, and that is the most important one. I come to my constituency of Ioannina. In particular, it is expected that two hundred new jobs will be created - this is important - on the basis of the production of hydrocarbons. This, Minister, is important to us. And because it is important, I want you to commit yourself to implementing best practices in relation to the environment. Because what governs us all is respect for the environment. Minister, there is a number of measures to protect the environment for Ioannina. In particular, there is provision for the protection of the coastline, the protection of the hydrographic network, the protection of fauna and the protection of tourist coastal areas. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures should be respected with prudence so that local communities will not be imposed. For us, research with the cooperation of hydrocarbons in Iato-Carnania will be a major development project, which will have the effect of turning it into a leading prefecture in energy. Already with its hydroelectric plants, wind turbines and better use of photovoltaics, it shows good energy utilization practice. What is left of it, ladies and gentlemen? It therefore remains with the Government to ensure these procedures for research and processing on all plots, which will be in line with those provided for in the contracts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the objective is common and one: not to become arbitrary, not to see irregularities, to safeguard the national and local interest and finally to put our country in a developmental orbit. Because, dear Minister, development means progress, growth means wealth. That's the point, because the loan is over. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we call 'yes'. Yes, well, in research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Maniotis, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos for his good words. I would also like to say that efforts in each government are collective and not individual. In addition, I would like to point out, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that our rapporteur, George Arvanitidis, has clearly described our position. But, Minister, because you're a loose man and I'm happy to entertain with you politically, I have to tell you that in your position you have given me the impression that you are losing track of time. You told us comfortably, "What happened, guys? What have we lost that the Greek is delaying three years?" Why the bulldozers in the Greek had to enter the beginning of 2015 and you are ambitious to put them in 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u74	...the presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u75	This was provided for in the contract you received. And of course - I will go into more detail next - we are talking about four conventions, three of which should also have been signed for three years, my Minister. Because all you have done, as your colleague, Mr Paul Paulakis, says, is a 'copy of time'. You found three ready-to-date contracts that were ratified in 2014, you make full copying of all data, terms and specifications and only differentiate the geographical reference area and the contractor. Fortunately, neither you, Minister, nor any of the SYRIZA speakers have thought of saying how much better contracts you made than those you found in 2014, because you have not added anything new. Mrs. Kafantaris, I want to tell you something very much appreciated. When something is done good by previous governments, we say 'the previous governments'. When something bad happens, the governments have a name in your own political approach. I must therefore tell you that all the good things you have said about us, the previous governments, have a name and Prime Minister. Law 4001/2011 became Prime Minister George Papandreou. The investigations began with the PASOK government and George Papandreou and continued with the Samara - Venizelos government, without being interrupted by the Piramimenos and Papademos governments in the intervening period. It is useful, then, to say the names when we say, even indirectly, a good word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u76	We've been talking about it for a misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u77	But I can no longer tell you that 'yes' in 2011 to bring investors, I reduced taxation. Who? I'll tell you right after what these investors will bring. But do you know what you're doing? Two months ago, you lowered the casino tax. From 37% you downloaded it at 20%, and if you exceed a sum of casino profits, you will only tax it at 8%. That's our difference. That's why we're not the same. That's why we don't look like each other. [[Applause]] And since we need serious and responsible issues, I would like to point out that we are unfortunately living in a bolted political environment with the sole responsibility of the government. It is an environment of division, division, rhetoric hatred, which ends up translating to disillusionment and abhorrence of citizens towards politics and politicians. It is the worst thing a government could do in a critical situation in which serious national issues are at stake and which we are supposed to be entering in August 2018 at another stage of history. I am sorry to say that, but everything that is done under the responsibility of the government is nothing but helping to reach agreement and cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you about the real, modern, progressive patriotism, the patriotism of people who believe in an extrovert, European, cosmopolitan Greece and who believe in the great power that our geopolitical position and our people's minds give us. This is the great advantage of our country over the next few years. I would remind you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you have voted against everything, everything that you are now attending, you are proud of. You voted against the MDG. You were against the Greek-Bulgar "IGB". You were against East - Med who connects the eyes of Israel and Cyprus with Italy. You were against the three contracts that we brought in in the summer of 2014. And now? A political illusion or a deception? You are presenting them from the Step of the House as if they were your works. You fought them, you sabotage them, you undercut them. You were against the hard way and often inappropriate, vulgar. You were up on the tiles in here. You blamed us for selling out national wealth. And you come now and say it's yours! Vangelis Venizelos says a good expression: "You are licking where you were spitting." However, because things are very serious this time, Minister, in Article 156 of Law 4001/2011 there has, in my opinion, been one of the most serious patriotic interventions by Greece in recent years. It is the article by which the Hellenic Republic declares how the Exclusive Economic Zone of the country with its neighbours or countries from the moment it is declared, based on the principle of the average equal distance line. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you that, on the basis of this article, all the financial communications of the Hellenic Republic to the United Nations have been filed when the Turks violate international law. I also present, for the Minutes, the map that we published on hydrocarbon surveys in 2014 with EEZ limits with Albania, Italy and Libya. In Libya, with the Gulf of Syrites open and with Gadus, it has a full influence on the intersectional islands as well. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why do I report this from Stepma? Negotiations on the Greek-Albanian agreement for multi-purpose zones are under way. The incomprehensible provocative attitude of Turkey and Erdogan is under way. We have a Europe that just expresses its good will to help us. The government is required, with a view to the meeting of the European Union and Turkey in Varna on 26 March, to join both Greece and Cyprus in this meeting. Otherwise, you will not have defended as long as national law is required. Now, I do not want to talk at all about what you said, Minister, that the competition took place and there was no interest in what we wanted. Of course it didn't show up, because you're kicking out the investors...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u78	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u79	You! Do you want me to give you an example? The three conventions you're bringing us today...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u80	You're driving us to despair!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u81	Easy, Minister, here we are. We have secondarys and teratology. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know when the three of the four conventions we are discussing today were opened? In 2014. When did the files come up? In February 2015. Why were these three land areas declared? Can I remind you? It'll be interesting. The three terrestrial areas of Arta-Preveza, Istanbul-Carnania and Achaia were called on for sending an expression of interest to the Ministry the Italian colossus ENEL. And in February, when it was intended to submit tenders, ENEL did not submit a tender. Why don't you ask the ELPEs, which you're supervising, and which have made up agreement with ENEL to submit a file together, why didn't ENEL submit a file? Because you kicked her out as a upcoming government, and once she saw that you became a government, they didn't file it. You have the tragic privilege of being in the hydrocarbon field and the first major investor to be expelled from Greece, while it had shown interest, to be the Italian ENEL. I guess you shouldn't be proud of these behaviors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take advantage of my second language. Next observation. Because we are talking about the issues of the environment, which are along with tourism, the top two issues of a new production model in which our country wants to move, we want to get together as well. The directive 30/2013 was shaped by us in the Environment Council and the Energy Council against and by Member States that wanted much lighter procedures. It is indeed the strictest directive at world level.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u82	You didn't pass it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u83	You won't even abdicate us that we didn't have time to make it a law, because the government fell. In the Council of Ministers, however, the directive was structured. I would also like to say a public 'thank you' to the members of the Ministry of the Environment, to the members of PPE and to the teachers of the National Technical University of Athens who helped us formulate the national positions. As far as the Generation Solidarity Fund is concerned, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos has said all about it. Let me remind you that you voted against the Solidarity Fund. And I would also remind you that in the context of the Thessaloniki programme, this parallel project, while there was law, Mr. Tsipras announced that he would create it. Fortunately, you didn't either. You have allowed the law to run, except that you have not made sure that you have issued a single administrative instrument to join the fund. Minister, I am still waiting for a reply to the question that I have submitted to you about how much money has been entered into this fund, because you have collected money from the signature bonuses, the bonuses of signatures, from the various loyalties, the fee etc. Can you tell us how much money it is? Because about a million of this money must be spent every year on education and retraining of civil servants and we must also give money under our own law to the postgraduate programmes of the Greek universities for the young children of the country who want to study for the use of hydrocarbons. Now there is one question: How quickly can these good things come? I'll answer you with the same life. Egypt's giant Zoh look was discovered by the Italian ENI just two and a half years ago. Today we are talking about the Zohr look after the Egyptian government's pressure towards the company is fully exploited. A gas pipeline was built from the Zoh look in Egypt and every year transported 5 bcm, 5 billion cubic metres of natural gas from the look in Egypt. In two and a half years, the discovery, the production process, the construction of the gas pipeline and its exploitation for the Egyptian economy took place. That's what you need to follow. As a result, all the other things about the so-called long future are either words of irrelevant or words of those who want to undermine a national effort. I shall now refer to the Patraikos Gulf. The Patraikos Gulf is always used as an example to know what is happening to us, because the evidence does not give it to us, the ELPE, the contractor. And they gave it now that they're being supervised by you. The 'Patraikos plot' - and we have said that Greece has at least ten 'Patraikos' - will be absorbed - listen! - as many investments as the former Greek airport, 2 billion for development investments and 5 billion for operating costs, 7 billion for only one plot. It will bring about 4.5 billion in the country's insurance system and 700 to 800 million in the regions of the Ionian Islands and Western Greece, a thousand three hundred people of employment and the social product produced at local level in twenty-five years' time will exceed 3 billion. All of this is a response from the company listed on the Stock Exchange, which is supervised by the Government and which gives these figures. For tourism, Prinos and Kavala, I don't have to say anything. It is proud of Greece that for thirty-five years Prenos has given a hundred and twenty-five million barrels of oil and a drop has not been poured out. Let us be an example of this and be an example of something else. I will table a map published by the WWF, which mentions the maritime areas in which research is currently being carried out in the Mediterranean. I would ask colleagues to see what is going on in the Adriatic. The Italians we are talking about today have over seventy-five steps of oil and gas extraction in the Adriatic, the tourist-developed Adriatic opposite Croatia, the equally developed tourists. And of course you can see what is happening in Cyprus that is just as well developed as tourists. This is to be serious about both the environmental issues and the issues of tourism. I'm putting down the map for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Previous observation. We read in the newspapers and learn that an entire process of questioning hydrocarbons research is under way in Epirus, Ioannina. Minister, the development of hydrocarbons research in the country is at stake. Because if you do not convince - it is your duty - the government - that you have taken all the necessary measures, you know very well that Corfu and Arta are preparing for their respective procedures. I'm making you a two-sided proposal. Firstly, obviously - and it is your right to do so - to go and talk to the regional council and at an open gathering yourself, because the Minister always has the political responsibility, and to convince the citizens with the strictest measures we can take. And we'll help you, if we need to. No problem. The second proposal is: here in the national Parliament, in the Committee on the Environment, to have an open, public debate, with the cameras off, to watch all Greek citizens, on the issue of the exploitation of the country's mineral wealth and, above all, of hydrocarbons, and to call on any scientists on each side. Three days to talk about it. When it comes to a national issue it makes perfect sense for transparency and open debate and for the national Parliament to make a positive contribution to overcome any problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u84	You've exhausted your dentistry, too. Tritology doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. And, of course, it is out of every sense, it is illegal, unacceptable and it is not going to be the so-called 'fracking', hydraulic cracking. Already since 2013, in the Council of Ministers for the Environment and Energy, the Hellenic Republic has said that the fracking will never apply to Greece. And I must tell you, for those who are involved in the matter, that France and too many other countries have said a great, correct 'no' on the fracking. And that's the way it should be. It would be incomprehensible, with the population composition of Europe and even more the ecological and environmental sensitivity of Greece, to have even one who would ever be aware of giving permission or even to think that there is a chance that the fracking would be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u86	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u87	To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we had thought of tabling a roll-call vote, because there was information that the Minister of Government, Mr Tsironis, was going to vote against the bill. And since we consider it incomprehensible for a government to remain a man who votes against a top-notch bill, we wanted to highlight the responsibilities of Prime Minister Tsipras, who must be expelled immediately, if he votes against when the final vote is due, or even resigns before Mr Tsipras resigns. I must tell you that I hope that, as a last resort to the dignity of the country's political world, it will become one of the two: either resign Mr. Tsironis or give him up by Prime Minister Tsipras. As Mr Dimitras said to us, officially now, that Mr Tsironis will vote against - Mr Tsironis was actually present - we consider that the request for a roll-call vote is no longer unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. You were clear. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. My spokesman for the Democratic Alliance has solved a question, a question I would ask him about why he asks for a roll-call vote if the bill is voted on. In my opinion, it is the absolute condition of respect for the vote by every Member of Parliament by three hundred or even by the Members of the so-called 'constitutional arc'. We have absolutely no respect for the separation of powers. And it is also a manifestation of political culture among Members of all groups to respect and honor this tradition and this constitutional obligation, to vote in conscience according to our values and what our minds demand, our thoughts and our obligation toward the people who have been here and expect something from us. In any case, this issue has been resolved, as Mr Maniotis said. He also asked some interesting questions about the general political climate, a climate - and we describe it - dissatisfaction, division, conflicts, disgrace. Repeatedly, I and other colleagues from SYRIZA have said that conflicts are necessary, necessary and fertile for political production in democracy. Only through conflicts and opposite will the new result be produced. And of course there is absolutely another thing about dissent, division, the pursuit of equalisation not of the argument, but of the individuality of the opponent. However, as we, after three years in the government, are already in the phase of self-criticism for what we have done, for what we are doing, I would expect the politicians who ruled in one or the other form in the first or second period, in the about forty-five years of post-multi-population, to have a more genuine self-criticism and not just this lyricidal self-justice: "We said it first, we said so." We are all going to tell the cafes when we get a pension or say - because they get us the age - 'I said so and they didn't listen to me'. We are, however, active and active within a Parliament, at a historic time when great progress is being made, great historical questions arise for both cohesion policy and national security and for the future of the country and the younger generations, and all this arsonist controversy is no longer solely due to the government. Nor is SYRIZA the same one that was eight and ten years ago. Historical conditions have changed, historical experience has changed, time has accumulated and experience and knowledge. Is that why I would like to ask Mr. Maniotis: are there arsonists in SYRIZA? Does he see anyone jumping on the benches? I, on the contrary, am not in the class of arsonists - I am in the class of the client class - sometimes I hear from the opposition terrible things that I am shocked about, being three and a half years of MP. I would like to come to something else, which we all recognize. There must be the continuity of the state. You have called for a continuation of governments on energy policy and said that what the Papandreou government has done continued with them by the Samara - Venizelos Government. You also put the Pirakramenos government of twenty days and the Papademos government, which was not a purely political government. It was only with the consent of political parties. There was the consent of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos to have that government. I would like to ask you about the two purely political governments, Papandreou and Samaras - Venizelos. You will certainly remember that in the second government there has been a denomination or depreciation of legislative initiatives and reforms made by the Papandreou Government. May I remind you of the law on evaluation introduced by Mr. Raguss and demolished in the summer of 2014 in doing so? May I remind you of the health provisions that Mr. Loverd had made, which Mrs. Skoulis gave to them, and which Mr. Georgiadis reinstated? May I remind you how bad Mr. Ragossi's citizenship was affected and then that the SYRIZA Government came to consolidate him, take him to the best and make him operational? May I remind you that the "DENMARK" law was compromised by Mr Mitsotakis, then Minister of Administrative Reform? There were also inconsistencies, governmental and institutional, major reforms and the first-government MPs were Members and, in the second, they were here. This is where the awards were made. So let's get over this and come to the sealing of what the New Democracy said, and Mr. Dendias, who, with a calm tone and, rather, with a political decency, made some hints in a wave of violence - he knows it - and he was measured - and, in his honor, pointed out - and the attack on the fascist elements in the 'Favela' social area in Piraeus. All these days, and in his word, Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Police Vice-Population, didn't mention anything. In the mass media, the attack was reported by Mr. Dendias, an experienced Minister of Public Order, and he was confronted with fascists and the Golden Dawn. He mentioned it as an attack. It was a murder attack. A lawyer was found with a cranial brain injury. It was reported as an incident, some episodes, some of them conflicted. The little atom or even large, depending on how we interpret it, Mr. Treasury, is that there are some acts of political violence lately, but we cannot smuggle them with deeds that are clear accounts. There's another thing about the twigs and another thing about the crows falling on people's heads. There's another thing about killing on the street by gangs and another thing about taking over an area. Of course we condemn violence. Of course we condemn any violation, which endangers the physical integrity or property of an unrelated peaceful citizen, but, firstly, we must not falsify reality and terrorize public opinion by over-enlargement or artificially magnifying or falsifying facts about political exploitation, it does not help anyone. We have no exacerbation or enlargement of crimes. Two-three months ago, on the occasion of the tragic loss of lawyer Zafiropoulou, Mr Javarras immediately gave political time in this Chamber. The hands of the killers are armed by the verbal spirals inside the House. I pointed out to him right now that we know absolutely nothing from the authorities about what has happened and that is an increase. It was a mistake. It has not been spent an hour and it has proved that this distinguished lawyer and distinguished member of the conservative party has murdered him by a common criminal involved in a huge economic scandal that may have other dimensions, the 'ENERGA' scandal. One victim of the mafia, therefore, was rendered in a hurry - I recognize it - but this haste can put us on adventures and give political weight to things that have no political starting point. I would therefore ask, on the occasion of the New Democracy's uprooted tone of violence and lawlessness, to request the statistics from the Greek Police and the Ministry of Public Order. He'll be disobeyed. It's different. I do not support the fact that when the murders are shortened by violence, it is some indication and it would be right not to inflame the citizens of constant danger and that, when we come, the crime will be'removed'. It's naive and it's politically harmful and criminal. Let us not put it on the agenda of political controversy - we have too many issues to put - foreign policy issues, national and internal security issues in the way the New Democracy puts them back on its agenda, in the way of a 'neutral' hysteria. No one supports violence and violation of constitutional order. The whole opposite. We have all sworn to respect the constitutional order and legality. The only ones who refuse democracy, constitutional order and the only ones who have violence are indicted in the courts, as deniers of democracy and as abusers of violence. So let tuna fall on this, foreign policy and internal security. Greek democracy is at risk from its negligents and not those who are agitated and believe in its defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a sad thing that is happening today in our country. And it is regrettable, because we are currently discussing jobs for twenty years, when we do not know how many we will have stayed in our country. It is regrettable that the national Parliament is now called upon to ratify in the name of the Greek people, with the authority given to them by the Greek citizens, opening the door to the beasts, to the colossians and, indeed, not to the back door but to the main door, to the front door. Today, at the same time that the Greek Parliament is trying to proceed with this ratification, those who have the responsibility of informing the citizens, consider it more important to measure with the charak from remote windows on a lively basis how reliable it gives a retweet of the Ambassador of the United States of America. Today, therefore, the government has finally retreated in the face of the fear that its last argument - all it has left to be right, to be honest - that is to say, 'we whatever we are, we are not thieves'. He congratulated Mrs Antonopoulou, who, in order to be honest, thanks to her work, gained substantial content, the words'social economy' and, after his resignation, did, of course, only say, Mr Papadimitriou, the only minister who respected the MPs who responded to parliamentary scrutiny in the time that he had to answer. So today, when the Turks do not feel, ladies and gentlemen, the need to try to hide their real person from the international community, from the threat of border changes, from what violates every concept of international law, from what requires human blood, the government has decided that it is more moral to carat two ministers than to lose one argument. Today, when we are discussing all this, the Acoustic Opposition is busy with the communication management of the scandal in the field of health and with the communication management of the continuous trampling in Skopje, on our national theme. At the same time, today, the Turks have the finger on the scandal and are causing accidents and transporting troops. Today, Greece of the memorials, Greece of the crisis, Greece of the capital controls, Greece of the lack of political responsibility, Greece who persecutes its children, this Greece, the affected Greece, comes and behaves, ladies and gentlemen. Greece does not want, under the threat and extortion regime, with dozens of open fronts, with the truce of the memorials in the neck, with the political system divided as ever, with the political system not seeing the size of its responsibility, with the political system enjoying voter's and only its character for the future - what future? Greece or the party future? - with a deserved opposition to claim that the rule of law has been destroyed and to leave suspicions that it is responsible for it in some undetermined way by the Government for Turkish aggression. The government, today we are talking about, basically accepts by means of the current sanctions that the only protection that our natural wealth has will be the rules of the free market. In other words, a left-wing government, today's left-wing government, recognizes that all it can control the behaviour of the energy colossal in our country will be the industrialists of tourism. I am very sorry, but it is a dense cloud that has stood above our Parliament and you have no excuse, none at all. I'm sorry. Unreasonable thoughts, incomplete design and a vision limited only to how we will make our four years! That's the vision we have! If we extend our thinking and rely on the conclusions drawn from the study of contracts, that is exactly what we conclude that the Government believes that the tourism industry, which is active in the Mediterranean, in fear of losing its value on the Mediterranean tourist product, will oblige the energy companies to respect and protect the environment. In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of wondering why the contracts which we are discussing and which we are called upon to ratify with our vote are as uncertain as they need to be, are as they serve to be and are as tailored as they must be to maximise the profit and not to protect the public interest. And to be clear, there is no guarantee of public interest, because there is no guarantee of environmental protection. In short, we in the Central Association do not distinguish the concepts 'public interest' and 'environmental protection' but, on the contrary, consider them to be identical. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come down from the Step, I would like to make an important point, in my opinion, of that. For some time now the Greeks have been hearing that the reason they're pulling what they're pulling is why we're blackmailing and we've bowed down, because we can't do otherwise. This tragicly simple and true explanation alone is not enough to justify anything. You have received, ladies and gentlemen, an extremely bad situation. No one disputes that. However, this does not mean that by managing extortion better than others, you are also successful. As we speak today about the future of the country after twenty-five years, that is to say, when we do not know how many people will have left in our country to manage it, I would like to tell you that within the framework of parliamentary control, which has an obligation and a right to make every Member of Parliament, every ten months of the speakers are putting a question to the Ministry of Economy and Development and they are asking about the development of investment projects. In March 2017, I had tabled such a question and the Ministry replied to me that there were 13 investment projects under way. In January 2018, I ask again the same question, and I ask two questions: what is the evolution of each of the 13 above investment projects in the period between March 2017 and today? The Minister's reply, which I will submit later in the Minutes, is as follows: "Two have been closed from thirteen..." - over a year and a half ago - "...until now, until January 2018". Two of the thirteen! In my second question about what other projects had been submitted since March 2017 until we talked, in January 2018, to the relevant law, do you know what the Ministry replied to me? Two! I answer the Minister's answer to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And then we are talking about the future of the country after twenty-five years with vague provisions. Tolerance ends with the tolerances of the Greek people. Greece can no longer stand, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and five teachers from the High School of Ioannis and the High School of Xerolim Kozanis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nikolaos Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following with interest the dialogue that is developing here in plenary on the bill on the extraction of hydrocarbons in our country. It's a serious bill for many reasons. I would like to say that both the government and the co-government parties, SYRIZA, the Epochian Party and the ANELs, I think, have an environmental sensitivity not of a general type but of a very specific and applicable nature. In this light, therefore, we must address the bill that we have before us. I am not an expert, and so I will try to ask questions on the basis of the in-depth letter that WWF and Greenpeace sent to Members. These two organisations are calling on us to vote against the bills because the country is being caught in an extremely polluting and dangerous human and environmental development model. It should be noted that fossil fuel extraction leads to economic decline in local economies. So they answer the arguments very hypothetical and little ghostly that hundreds and thousands of jobs will be created by such investments. They also point out in their letter that the conventions under our crisis do not give us any image of economic benefit for the country, except for the unprecedented and scanning risk of important natural areas and valuable resources that are property of transgenic value. It's not our home, it's not just our generation. We inherited them and inherited them. Contract finances give an image of doubtful revenues for the state budget, which depend on the income and profits of the lessee. And other things are said by these two organizations. I have to tell you that it is not just the'subtle' against the development of environmentalists or the environmental organisations that are saying these things, but also the most in favour of development and in dominant ways, such as the World Bank. We read here: "The World Bank will stop funding oil and gas mining missions in 2019", as announced at the Conference in Paris, "in an effort to shift the sources of energy that are more environmentally friendly" and some others. I am also aware that large countries, with a tradition of hydrocarbons extraction and even on land, are suspending or ceasing these drillings, such as Italy. Large insurance companies, following the example of the World Bank and major European countries, which do not want the environment to be another field against citizens' rights, cease to insure such investments, such as the ones we bring to Parliament today. I have to say that this bill is not on the hands of the troika. It is a choice that we make as a government following previous government choices of previous governments. It does not mean that the state's continuity is constantly above political choices. Obviously, there is continuity in commitments, but obviously there are also the changes resulting from the overthrow of political correlations in a Parliament. SYRIZA came here to continue, to create a new environment of continuity, as well as reversals and incisions in choices of great national importance, such as those concerning threats to the environment. I would not like to expand any further. I think that the Minister, who is also diligent on the issues he presents, but also on his environmental sensitivity, will be kind enough to respond to the criticism of these organisations, as well as the decision of the World Bank. In conclusion, with confidence in the choices we have to make, I would like to say that there is a particular aspect. I come from a father from Ietolokarnania. I cannot imagine - and I have not seen any environmental studies - what it means to start the extraction of hydrocarbons in a closed system, such as the Messologian and Ionian lagoon. I also cannot imagine what it means to other regions, such as the continent, and even close to NATURA, such as Zagori, that mining should begin, even by taking place. But what is the point of sampling, apart from having evidence of further exploitation? And what does it mean to exploit hydrocarbons in such sensitive areas as their ecological protection? Finally, I believe there is another danger which does not arise today from our debate. But eating comes in the appetite. It's the risk of shale rocks. It's the new American policy. They say that in some regions of Greece there is this possibility. Let's not think about that. Sample mining, however, means that we are paving the way for such catastrophic choices. I repeat that with confidence, I believe our government will take all necessary steps to prevent the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the proposal tabled by the Chief of Staff of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and seventy-three Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group setting up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination under Articles 86(3) of the Constitution, 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 5 of Law 3126/2003: ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, on invoicing of medicinal products and the general pharmaceutical expenditure in 2015, 2016. The proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, printed, distributed to Members and placed on a special agenda, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u95	It is known to the House that two fellow Members of Parliament are applying for a short-day absence abroad, Mr Dimitrios Gassis from 6 March to 8 March 2018 and Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis from 24 March to 29 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u96	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The speaker's circle has been completed. Can I ask the Minister if he wants to add anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u97	There's an answer from the Minister to a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u98	I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u99	I remind you of the issue of environmental studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u100	I testified to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u101	What'd you testify for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u102	What's predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u103	I tell you that only the strategic environmental impact study has been carried out. It's not the individual.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u104	You come back to an issue that is clear and I hear a number of leaks from here from Epirus, etc. We cannot have a debate without content.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u105	What leaks? Here we are talking about whether there are any individual studies. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u106	The law is clear. I gave it to you. Each step is approved environmentally. And the adjuncts you implied, everything wants GDP. Each step wants GDP. There have been public debates on Epirus. All the discussions have been held - and I reply to my friend, Mr Philly - in public, it is now clear. A mythoplasty has been created now that there is insufficient environmental protection for each step. There is an environmental licensing for each step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u107	The license, the license, another...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u108	The Minister has nothing more to add. The debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby completed. Their vote will be taken separately. ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u116	Yes, but I can hardly tell you that without prejudice to environmental issues. I'm not at all sure we had solid answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u117	I don't understand, Mr. Amyras. What's your vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u118	I said "yes," but I keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u119	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u120	No, it's okay. Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u121	You explained it before. There is no explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u122	I know, but it is a tradition and constant tactic on a number of issues, and Members express their concern and concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u123	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Definition of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELAYA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u132	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u137	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u141	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u150	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELAYA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Arta-Preveza’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u151	‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘Edison International S.p.A.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the grant of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u160	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘Edison International S.p.A.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u169	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u178	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘Edison International S.p.A.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ to grant the right of investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the marine region 2, Ionian Sea’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u187	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘Edison International S.p.A.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ to grant the right of investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the marine region 2, Ionian Sea’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and has the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u188	‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGYIAKI AEGAIOU ANONYMATIC CONTRIBUTION AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONALS to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial area ‘Aithalocarnania’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u195	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u197	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Undertaking of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN ANONYYMATIC CONVENTIONAL INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGIONAL COUNTRIES to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the terrestrial area "Italy Carnania" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u206	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u215	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Furthermore, the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN ANONYYMATIC CONVENTION INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGIONAL COUNTRIES to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the terrestrial area "Atoloarnania" was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u224	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN ANONYYMATIC CONTRIBUTION FOR RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONAL COUNTRIES to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the terrestrial area ‘Atoloarnania’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u225	‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLENIC PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Northwest Peloponnese’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u234	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Definition of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELAYA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Northwest Peloponnese’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u243	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u252	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Definition of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELAYA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area ‘Northwest Peloponnese’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u261	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELAYA ANONYME to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the terrestrial region ‘North-Western Peloponnese’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u263	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case, on 27-02-2018: Criminal proceedings concerning Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras, Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos and Deputy Minister of Health Mr Paulos Polakis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-28-S1-commons.u264	With the agreement of the House at 17.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, March 1, 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
