ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 7-6-2018, PLB's minutes were confirmed at its meetings of Thursday, 7 June 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Reorganisation of support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, Mr Scandalides will be given the floor, who has asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. For a minute, I'll have you guys. It is very right that Parliament's attempt to settle various loose ends relating to corruption, etc. At some point, however, there is a need for fundamental protection of the political world to follow the reverse process. I would therefore like to point out to the House that, on 2 July 2007, the then Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, made a public complaint, because on the occasion of the bond case he accused the then Director-General of PASOK, Mr Giannis Papakonstantinou, of money and corruption. Mr. Papaconstantinou was referred for unfaithful service. After a marathon process and a suffering of eleven whole years, the Athens Court of Appeal decided on 17 December 2015, which was cleansed and published more than two years later, on January 25, 2018, exonerated Mr Papaconstantinou from the charge. I consider, therefore, a fundamental obligation to operate on the President of this House in a letter from Mr Papaconstantinou to be announced in plenary, recorded and included in the Minutes of this House, in order to make an elementary correction of this unjust and heaviest charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Please, the letter to be lodged for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u4	I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, let me announce the topical and urgent questions of today's issue, which will not be discussed. The first one under number 1751/5-6-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the "take of measures to dismantle the islands of the eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsa. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The third, with number 1748/5-6-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Truths in the Centre for Reception and Identifying (CYT) Orestiada Bridge, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsa. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The second question under number 1742/4-6-2018 is the first question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The government, for the sake of creditors, resurrects the drafted net of protecting the loss of interest on the debts of the highly indebted households", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Pitsirla. Grounds for: misused parliamentary obligations. The fourth under number 1741/4-6-2018 topical question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouri mine", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Stathakis. Cause: tolerant meeting. The first, with number 1752-5-6-2018, topical question of the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Association and Tourism School". Another outstanding situation of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The second, with number 1730/30-5-2018, topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lack of democratic representation of students in the EAA", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The fourth under number 1611/7-5-2018 topical question of the second question of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Christos Dimas, on the subject: “Absorbing the resources of the NRP 2014-2020”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: service trip. The sixth question under number 1589/3-5-2018 of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the treatment and production of finished medicinal cannabis products", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: service trip. The first question with number 5185-17-4-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Integration of a second phase of expansion of the network for the distribution of district heating Megalopolis Arcadias" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: service trip. The second question with number 4297/12-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: service trip. The fifth question, under No 1674/21-5-2018, of the second question of the Parliamentary Lassithi of the New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "Evaluation of funding from the EU Fund for the supply of new vessels from the Port Authority - Greek Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and the fight against crime at sea", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr.Kourublis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The only question, therefore, to be discussed is the third with number 1704/25/2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Talkage and burden of consumers by delaying the reimbursement of sums paid to ELTAs for the payment of PPC's bills". Please, Mrs Ahmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while you are concerned with attracting producers from Hollywood, you are dealing with the Greek Space Agency, you are signing Memorandums of Cooperation for the establishment of schools and Memorandums of Cooperation with the Ministers of your Government for Projects that I still do not understand where they will be financed here in the nice Greece, the reality of your new election record on clean exit and return to normality. Because there is nothing normal when in 2018 the citizens are standing in PPC's tails to do what? To find a balance with their accounts, which they have paid to the ELTAs, which is your responsibility, and that is why we are here and we are discussing it together today. So the consistent citizens pay their ELTA accounts and ELTAs do not pay the money to PPC. As a result, they risk losing the 15% consistency discount and have to go to PPC because the debts appear in the next account as outstanding. Because, Minister, when things go wrong with your narratives, you usually tell us that we are making fast news, I hope you won't tell me that this is not the case, because I have here the press release that the Public Power Corporation has produced, which explains that this is a constant problem over the last year, which has become much worse. On this occasion, the first part of the question is how large the opening up of outstanding debts is. How much money do ELTAs retain from what consumers pay to go to PPC to pay their current accounts and what do they do with this money, so I can just ask? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President, your tolerance. Also, I have here a letter from 4 May 2018, where the Consumers' Consultant ask for explanations from both PPC and ELTA. Also, the Energy Regulatory Authority has sent a letter not only to PPC, but to other power providers, asking for information on the current. So we need to know what's going on with the rest of the power providers. I am also informed that there is a public prosecutor who has been ordered by the Chief Prosecutor of the Athens Primary Prosecutor for the responsibilities of both ELTA and PPC, in order to investigate whether the company has proceeded with the appropriate actions both to prevent this accumulation of debt and to claim the sums due. So I start with this question: why is that, Minister? How big is the opening? What are your actions in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Asimakopoulou, look, reality too many times is persistent and lands everyone. And as you have in the last 24 hours, it is actually in relation to the developments in the negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, because we have heard that your Chief will not be absolute in the solution chosen for the name and a move - I am speaking sincerely - we will welcome it, move towards the fixed positions of the Greek side as they have been formulated in recent years, so you will also land on the question of the completion of the programme and the net exit. So, I think we'll let the damned time land you in reality and exercise your criticism on the basis of what's really going on. We are now being called upon to discuss an issue that has now been resolved. And it has been resolved because it is precisely because the two companies and the computer file with the people who have paid their bills are in the hands of PPC. The ELTAs have received 22.5 million, at the moment we are talking about, from the universal service. In the next few days, they will receive another $22.5 million. Total 45, which have already been legislated. The ELTAs also received 40 million from other public bodies. They were debts accumulated and unfortunately these debts were not taken care of. In the next few days they will collect another 20 million. We are talking about a total of 100 million which I am sure will help to reduce the opening-up of the ELTAs to PPC too much. Of course - and here I will be absolutely clear - the administrations should be very quick to show reflexes so that no citizen will be troubled for absolutely no day. The ELTA problem is a problem arising from the combination of technological developments and their orderly abandonment on the part of government policy. The ELTAs were guided by the letter. As in the last 15 years, e-mail technology was used in society and in the economy, the letter has started and became a very secondary activity. Very few citizens, very few businesses choose the letter method to communicate. And, of course, when other post offices were internationally provided for electronically to monitor these developments, the ELTAs did not do so. Their turnover since 2008, which was close to 450 million, reached in 2016 under 200 million. We're talking about a reduction of over 50%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President. Also, the compensation mechanism for the universal service was not even designed. In 2013, the postal market is liberalised and there is no plan. These have already been legislated and almost completed. Only the disbursement remains for the universal service compensation for the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and, of course, the compensation fund has been established to cover the obligations now to the ELTAs that are a universal service provider. The ELTAs have signed the relevant ELTA and public service contract. I would also like to remind you that in 2014 the General Accounting Office of the State rejected a request from the then competent Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks for compensation for universal service costs, because the necessary legislative framework was not passed. I shall return to my dentistry for the rest, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u9	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u10	Minister, I'm starting with what's the reality. You made a mention, obviously, of what Slovak MEP Edward Cukan said about the statements made by our President Mitsotakis. Mr Mitsotakis was absolutely clear and clear in the PPE. The fact that you want to isolate a phrase that someone else has isolated and accuse him of a different turn, as well as a funny one, as well as saying about Jekyll and Hyde, because I read this in your announcement. Because, therefore, the standing positions of the New Democracy have once again been expressed in the PPE-DE quite clearly, it is really funny to say that you - which has been established internationally because of your overall political behaviour, the term 'codouba' throughout Europe - for Mr Mitsotakis, who is conducting himself with Jekyll and Hyde. If you do not want to understand the New Democracy's clear position on the sceptic issue, this is your problem and it has nothing to do with reality. The reality is, we don't know what the proposal is on the table, because you're moving on with secret diplomacy. The reality is also that you do not have political legitimacy because you do not have the support of your government partner in this matter. I shall therefore return to the subject of today's debate. If I understood correctly, Minister, I have this decision in the 'DENMARK' - you have requested the other EUR 22.5 million. It is not clear to me that this has been approved, but I accept that it is in the process of approval. There are 22.5 and 22.5 and we have 40 more. So you want to tell me that in order to deal with the problem of this suffering, it had to be about 80 million euros to deal with this issue? Did the opening have to be 85 million? So, is the opening of the accounts so much? Why would he reach that level to be seized? Are you blaming the administrations that they are to blame? The money owed the Ministry and we can do, if you like, a thorough debate on the situation of the ELTAs. I'm going to ask you a question to do that. Since you have made a brief reference to the universal service, you know very well, Minister - because we have discussed it within the framework of parliamentary control - that for the universal service a solution had been found from the previous government, it had been approved and Mr Spirtz, your predecessor, was the one by letter, which I have also tabled under parliamentary control, decided on 12-10-2016 to withdraw the Greek Government's request not for the sum of 15 million, but for the manner in which it was agreed. The fact that the previous government, because you have actually dropped it, did not have time to bring the amendment, does not mean that the matter had not been resolved. So, Mr Spirtzis has decided not to resolve it and you have come when the situation has arrived in the unprecedented, and there are accumulated debts and people are suffering in the tails, to bring the amendment to the 15 million, and now, on the eve of my question to Parliament, you tell us that you have also guaranteed the disbursement of money and that there are 40 million more from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u11	They've been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u12	These have been paid. Very good. I accept the answer, but I would like to know this: are there any actions for the future? Is there anything that will ensure that the world is not there again? Whatever we can talk about, no matter how much we crash in here, the person sitting on the tail wants to have an answer about what happens when he goes back to pay for his account with the ELTA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Asmakopoulou, I think you haven't followed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u15	I've been watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u16	I told you that in 2014 we rejected the Ministry of Infrastructure's request to pay money for the universal service and the rejection was made by the General Accounting Office of the State. No problem you've solved. Why was he rejected? Because there was no clear legislative framework, which was the necessary treaty to enable the universal service compensation to be paid. That's what's happening right now. I repeat: it will receive 45 million for the universal service. They have already been repaid for 40 million of debts from other public bodies serving by ELTA, so we go to 85 and receive 20 more. There are smaller debts which do not constitute...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u17	Is this all going to PPC, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u18	The ELTAs must also try to shorten the opening as much as possible and, of course, PPC must take its measures so that no one is troubled for any day. This has to be done, and I think I was too clean. What's got to be done from now on? Look, the ELTAs, when the government changed and because you were unable to convince any party of the democratic opposition to continue the life of the most failed government, the Samara government, the ELTAs had about 200 shops, which were in a manuscript and that is now completed. The ELTAs must, of course, step up their efforts and extend their influence to the parcel, which is the future of the postal service, but also move rapidly towards their reconstruction so that they can meet the needs of this new era. There have also been steps for technological equipment and a very serious attempt is being made to close wounds that had been formed. I would remind you that ELTA's share capital in the Post Bank was about 220 million euros. This was lost when the bank broke into good and bad. Of course, we had the abandonment of the ESRB projects that had been established for the ELTAs and did not go any further. Here too, because we need to deepen our debate on the occasion of parliamentary scrutiny, it has proved necessary to have a very strong public intervention, particularly in areas relating to the maintenance and smooth operation of large networks. This is a very solid and self-evident conclusion based on the experience of recent years. I therefore think that the dialogue between us can also be much more creative and, of course, we can all be informed when we come for parliamentary scrutiny, so that we can make it more productive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 26/17/24-5-2018 by Members of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitrios Koutsoubas, Alexandras Papaegas, Athanasios Bardalis, Ioannis Giokas, Ioannis Delis, Lianas Kanellis, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Christou Katsotis, George Lamproulis, Diamonds Manolas, Nikolaos Moraitis, Athanasios Pafili, Constantine Steerios, Emmanuel Synthraki, Stavros Tasos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on collective agreements. Under the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Parliamentary Group will have the floor for ten minutes, Mr Katsotis, first honourable Member, will take the floor for ten minutes for prototype and five minutes for dentistry, Mr Vardalis, five minutes for prototype and three minutes for dentistry. Also Mr. Giokas, Mr. Delis, Mr. Synthrakis and Mr. Lambroulis will receive the same time as the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 89th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first Member of Parliament has the floor, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. The JRC Parliamentary Group has submitted since October 2016 the proposal for a law of five hundred thirteen organisations, federations, labour centres, trade unions or businessmen throughout the country. Since then, the government has not been specifically placed on the demands and demands of workers. The other parties, of course. Let us recall that the unions with a great rally outside the House have tabled the proposal for a law that has been worked out in all the parliamentary parties other than the criminal Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn which the unions know firsthand that fascists are the lads of the bosses, slaves, bracelets, professional strikers and knife fighters. Despite the processed government propaganda, the government's real intentions for important issues of the working class and of every family, such as collective labour agreements, minimum wages and wages, the third and fourth wages, and pensions, daily working hours, flexible working relationships, for all those that determine the value of the labour force, the level of life of the working class and of its families, especially young people. Entities of business groups, governments and parties serving them in coordination with the European Union have designed and implemented measures and policies which have as their main aim to increase the competitiveness of enterprises vis-à-vis other competing countries. For all of these, one is the road map, the increase in the profitability of businesses, and this objective cannot be achieved unless the exploitation of workers is increased. In all the Member States of the European Union, they have taken steps and achieved great blows to what the working class movement has achieved with hard struggles. It is a lively example of France and the measures of the science friend of SYRIZA - ANEL, Mr McCrone, who have taken French workers along the road to the fight. The further undermining of collective bargaining goes hand in hand with overturning the stable work and extending parttime work, flexible forms of employment, the decisions and directives of the European Union which the government presents as a European acquis. Overturns are growing rapidly and in the constant daily working time, the greater conquest of workers, from Chicago yet. The capitalist crisis for the bourgeoisie was an opportunity. That's how they made it. Thus, the political forces that serve it moved quickly towards implementing all the European Union's decisions on the choices of business groups. One after the other, the parties that ruled or participated in government since 2010 - PASOK, New Democracy, DIMAR, LAOS, SYRIZA, ANEL - legislated the anti-corruption choices of business groups. They tried to frame the conquests. They were presented as a cause of the crisis. "The workers lived above their powers, had wages and rights above what the economy tolerated, were pathogens of the past, results of the client state" and much more. Three memorials, hundreds of implementing laws have as victims the working class, the popular strata. We need every right to create the friendly environment for investment, for the competitiveness of the economy. The reduction in wage and non-wage costs was the main objective of all the governments and parties involved in it. Prior to the abolition of collective agreements on employment, the generalization of tyres, contractors, lawyers, an increase in the probationary period during which redundancies are free of compensation in one year from two months, a drastic reduction in compensation. Steady work with a management right has been converted into rotating work, parttime work, with a view to reducing activities because of a crisis. They abolished whatever kind of dismissal, strengthened the replacement of old workers with rights, with new, cheap and with no rights. The 2012 Act of the Ministerial Council brought a large reduction in the minimum wage by 22% and 32% respectively for young people, which was the basis for the negotiation of sectoral wages. It has separated young and old, introduced the “subordinated” salary, added to the 2011 Katsell Act providing for the replacement of sectoral collective agreements by business contracts signed by associations of persons created by employers and by individuals who dominate, with great overthrows in the terms of the remuneration and work of the large majority of employees. It is characteristic that about a thousand operational contracts were signed immediately after the law in one year. We are not talking about an eruption of workers' organization and the creation of business unions, but about the opportunity for employers to make use of the tool of the association of persons. With 15% of workers under blackmail and threats, sectoral wages were imposed at the level of the main. Over 80% of these operational contracts are at EUR 586 mixed or EUR 511 respectively for young people. The "first-time left" government has carried out another dirty mission, the vote of the new obstacles to the strike, demolishing employers and other mechanisms, as we have seen in the port of Piraeus, an industry of judicial prohibitions on the right to strike. The Government today calls for collective agreements to be reintroduced and for the minimum wage to be increased. It won, he says, in the tough negotiation and the contracts will come back from August, probably when the flies are thick. Is that the way things are? Here is the proposal for a law, which, as you have seen, is based on the reintroduction of Law 1876/1990. Today a report says about ILO's decisions, Minister, which says that the government should avoid unilateral referral to arbitration. Only on exceptional occasions should work peace be ensured, only then should they be brought before them. I imagine you're aware of these publications. So bring in a debate on the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC to be passed, to become a state law. The government permanently simulates all the anti-government framework, extends it by abolishing the Sunday holiday, increasing working time, by measures to broaden flexibility, linking wages and productivity, adjusting working time by applying it to critical places, such as hospital doctors, but also to ships, to seafarers. In the week of the past, the Prime Minister and other government officials were found at assemblies, events of BSE, SETE, the Shipowners' Union, who do not hide their satisfaction with the policy applied. More than that, they know about the government's commitments. The government is mocking the workers once again. She is trying to hide her real commitment, which is reflected in her development plan, her own property, as she says. In this respect, for example, it is planned to implement the Brutsi Act in 2013 to set the minimum wage. Make your ownership of the Brutsi Act. You continue from where the previous ones stopped, and the next ones will continue where you will stop. In 2017 local sectoral collective agreements continue to be extremely low, while for the eighth year operational collective agreements are overwhelming. The number of operational collective labour agreements represents 95.21% of all collective labour agreements and are contracts with associations of persons. You know very well - because the case was coming out - you abolished a facial union contract that was under 586. We are therefore saying that the unacceptable associations of persons should be abolished. Give an answer, Minister. Will you remove them? Employers do not apply in several cases and sectors that have been signed and with reductions of more than 15%. A characteristic example of tourism, which the sectoral contract of tourism work is applied to ninety thousand industry hotels, who are aware of a huge arrival explosion - over thirty million tourists - and a profit explosion and, on the other hand, poverty, hunger wages, uninsured work, workers sleeping in containers or, even worse, in cuffs and outdoors, such as land workers. Madam Minister, you have just seen what happened in Amaliada yesterday. How long will this disgrace continue, people working sun and staying in the fields in miserable conditions? So here's Rhodes. Make the collective agreement compulsory. In tourism we have a profit explosion. Employers themselves say so. Why don't you do it? What do we actually have? We have the consolidation and generalization of the absolute sovereignty of the management right, the introduction of employers' flexibility and flexible work, and the introduction of a low, minimum wage, which is a lever for the overall compaction of the wages of workers. The workers' demands are awaiting an answer, Minister. They ask for the salary to be restored, as it was before the 2012 Ministerial Council act. In other words, at EUR 751 a minimum wage. Will you do it? Will you abolish the misplaced separation of old and new workers? Will you restore the institutional framework for collective agreements, as they were, without loopholes, such as what you announced about the representativeness of sectoral agreements? So, what did you announce? It is a precondition for business signatories to employ 51% of the employees. And what do you plead? That employers will have an incentive and will not leave their associations, as they do today, in order not to apply the sectoral contract, because they will have to apply either they sign or not. Now simply they will not come at all, Minister, to the negotiation, as employers do in the vast majority of the sectors. Where they are forced by workers' struggles, they leave before signature, so that 51% of the industry is not completed. But who are you going to make fun of? The request is the reintroduction of compulsoryity and prolongation, without tricks, exceptions and asterisks. Everything else is fraud. Workers are fighting and claiming, with the proposal for a law, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages for the public, the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, and not a single tip every single one. They've paid for it more than that. They demand the abolition of contractors and not their perpetuation, their permanentisation from the back door, the abolition of flexible forms of employment, the legislative safeguarding of Sunday's holiday, stable work with rights, with a fixed daily time, with a reduction in working time with three-and-a-half hours. There's no room for other delusionals. Employees hold their case of life in their own hands. Only by fighting hard, persistent, collective, organized, class-oriented and free from the people of employers and governments from their associations can they impose their fairness, go out ahead. The street is shown by unions, federations, labor centers that gather in PAME, many workers from the branches, who one gives the battalion of the struggle to the other and start and bring the first results. They must be able to say 'to this end with the lies and frauds of the present and previous governments'. The proposal of the five hundred thirteen trade union organisations is clear, is not misinterpreted, leaves no loopholes. We put it before us, with the requirement to have a debate and we demand that it become the law of the state. We will fight with all our forces along with the workers throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u22	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, from what we have heard, today in the House is the deposit of the multi-billion plan with the prerequisites of the fourth evaluation, with the procedures known to everyone as the fast track that SYRIZA has permanently simulated in the years of his anti-population rule. And, as is customary, the so-called'massage' to government MPs, which, of course, is called 'information', also takes precedence. We know that we publicly said - you know that what most needs you is not information, but the practice of your memory. Memory exercises are needed, gentlemen of the ruling party, because of the many anti-grass-projects you have now lost the account. And don't start the known ones, like these are the last tough ones. Already, your various satiric emissions have come out for the infinite times you have used the exact same expression. Forty-one months you're in power and every month you say about the same thing about the ending of difficult measures, about the light that comes to get out of the difficult situation, etc. At the same time, however, you do not say that these difficult measures are difficult for the working people's families alone and are not difficult, of course, for the capital, for the few, for their representatives, for whom you promised new privileges, new tax reliefs, new investment packages and at the same time the maintenance of all the anti-government arsenal. And in order not to be wronged, to say that the New Democracy has made the same commitments. Your only difference is the exact way in which the capital will benefit. However, the difference in the forthcoming multi-brand plan from the previous one is that it breaks down your claims about clean exit from the memoranda, about what is allegedly a memorial period, because, anyway, this is well known - it includes new measures for the poverty of the people, such as the increase in HISPIA for people's families, which the Minister of Finance did not hide. If we add to all of this the bloody primary surpluses, but also the reductions in pensions and dutyfree, which you have already voted on, we understand that the Memorandum of Understanding includes about what the Memorandum says: measures without ending the people, to ensure only the profits of the great capital, for which you are working quite well, and that is what his representatives are saying. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government not only maintains and deepens the anti-legal framework, but, with the various fair growth stories, back to normality, spreading the benefits of development across society and so on, it only attempts to disarm, trap, say, the working class, our people. The New Democracy is close to her, which in recent years saw, of course, getting the bread out of her hands. The legislative framework of the New Democracy and PASOK, the current SYRIZA Government - ANEL not only simulates it through its codification - a commitment made by the third memorandum - but extends it by means of measures to broaden flexibility, to link wages and productivity, to strengthen competitiveness. What does all this mean? It means that the workplace will become a ghetto of work, that workers will reach seventy-two hours of work a week on boats, hospitals, work without collective agreements, circumvention and remaining ones. They mean that dozens of workers are crippled every week by the lack of health, safety and controls. We have four crippled workers on the same ship in a few days' time in Perama. They also mean sunwork, with fourteen different industrial relations in five-fourth hotels, to get another sector of the economy. They mean work until extinction, with a wage of EUR 500, at the airports you gave the "FRAPORT". And the list is too long. Here is the model of your capitalist development, the iron-shocked ghetto of container stations in the port of Piraeus, where they advertise as a comparative advantage to shipowners, groups, monopolies, provocative slogans that lead to a ban on strikes and trade union action and retaliatory action. 'Free Strike' is now being said. You have serious responsibilities as a government, because not only have you maintained the anti-Fraud provisions that hit trade union activity, but you have also voted for new ones, demolishing employers and other mechanisms. It's a real record for them to come out within three days, with incredible speed, five strike decisions illegal, with dirty and funny reasons. This is the secret to the competitiveness and profitability of business groups that the government guards as an eye daughter. It is with this that workers must be measured, setting their own needs ahead. The JRC is on their side consistently. Organizing, solidarity, collective action are major weapons in the hands of workers, able to cancel the obstacles to their fair struggle. We're throwing all our forces through the lines of the class movement, the unions, the FAME, with a plan to escalate the struggle. Clear exit from the memoranda and, more generally, for the workers only means abolishing all the anti-grass laws, commemorative laws, supplementing economic losses, satisfying modern real-life people's needs. That is why the proposal of the more than five hundred labour centres, federations and primary unions for collective agreements, for the National General Association Convention, is justified, reintroducing the minimum wage to EUR 751 for the abolition of all anti-territorial laws. Two years you have not even bothered to bring her into conversation. We had to table this topical question today, even if the workers were to learn it, through these brief positions. And today's debate is a form of support for the struggle of many branches, because they learn firsthand who is with them and who is across the street. They can make useful decisions for the continuation. They are important, in fact, the struggles of workers at this time in a number of places, in a number of branches. It is worth mentioning the struggle that the workers at the port of Piraeus have given in the last few days to sign a collective contract of employment and also requests to protect their health and life at work, with positive results from what it seems - at least so far, we will see to the end - which was achieved through their unity and their struggle, their mass participation in the strike and their great popular support from colleagues from all over Greece and from abroad. It was also the persistent struggle of the builders and the success of signing a final collective contract in the largest construction sites in Attica: The strike struggle of the Federation of Food and Drinks, in order to break the intransigence of BSE. In the ship repair zone there were multi-formal and multi-month mobilizations. Hotels, food, telecommunications, urban transport, commerce and the legal protection of Sunday holidays. The Communist Party of Greece supports, with all its forces, these fair struggles for work and life with rights, with dignity, with collective agreements, for wage increases, pensions, social benefits, so that young people can no longer live as modern slaves. On the basis of the most recent information from the EPC, three out of ten private sector employees have been partly employed and receive only EUR 389.65 mixed. In other words, after labour costs have been deducted, the net wage is EUR 326. With these crumbs they are paid every month, when they find them, the six hundred and six thousand four hundred twenty - four employees, the majority of young children. Really, you, Mrs. Ahchioglu, can you live with 326 euros a month? The laws, passed since 2011, effectively abolished sectoral and equal-professional contracts. A large proportion of the employees work on an individual contract, and most of them are paid with wages around the thresholds. The percentage of private workers, covered by collective labour contracts, does not exceed 10%, whereas the minimum wage is determined by the respective government which has dropped it to the tartars, EUR 586 mixed and EUR 511 for young people under twenty-five years. But let's stand here a little bit longer. The minimum wage and the method of determining it was used by governments from 2010 until now by a low-wage protection tool, that is to say, to speed up the generalized reduction in wages in the private sector of the economy. It was transformed into an accelerator of the reduction in average wages, which was and is the main target for capital and so-called "positions". This mechanism for compressing the average wage remains unchanged to do his job over the next few years. You, who are talking about reintroducing free negotiations, will, in fact, restore the way in which you set the basic salary in place before the anti-territorial provisions of the 2010-2014 period? Do not mock, because what you are committed to and included in your Government's development plan - the famous plan of your own property, as you advertise it - is the implementation of Mr. Brutch's 2013 law. This law stipulates that once again by a government decision the basic salary will continue to be determined and - of course with known fairy tales - after social dialogue with partners, namely BSE and GSY, now that 500 euros are signed and the best partners in your government. Will you bring back - we ask you - the salary as it was before the 2012 decision, that is, the EUR 751? Will you abolish the misplaced separation of old and new workers? The real questions are those. The rest and in the well-known logic of "little-we'll slowly get out of the tunnel" is just to fool small children. I repeat that your aim is to put the average wage pressure on further, to increase flexibility by hitting fixed daily working time, to eject the farm by adjusting working time and other such forms. The seven hundred and more memorial laws are now your own property and you are committed, in fact, to bringing others. This shows the figures published three months ago, which record a further fall of 2.2% in the average wage of employees in the private sector between 2016 and 2017. Overall, the reduction in these years is over 20%. But the most terrible situation, literally outraged, is what happens with the young children. In general, young workers work without having met collective agreements. A large part of them starts from the minimum wage crumbs and under no circumstances approaches previous wages. It is torn bones, the wholeheartedness of flexible forms of employment. And we have both the Government and the Ministry of Labour that are courageously burned by the prostate, supposedly, of working rights, to repeat the tales of returning to normality after leaving the memoranda, at the same time that they actually throw the working class even deeper into the working jungle. The employers' BSE associations, SETE, Shipowners' Union, Bankers' Union speak very clearly in relation to you, who literally implement their checks. Not only do they view sectoral contracts and sectoral wages as an obstacle to their competitiveness and investment, but they also promote a planned propaganda aimed at incrimination as a cause, he says, of the capitalist crisis of the rights that were existing and which had been conquered by the workers with blood, with great sacrifices, with hard struggles and highlight the slogan "no return to this past". No, gentlemen, it is not the workers and the poor populaces for your economic crisis and policy. The capital and its representatives are manoeuvres in hiding that the only ones responsible for the crisis are the ones with their system, with their inconsistent profitability. It's their own power and their state that's corrupt. They are their accumulated capital from squeeze on the workers, who cannot invest them productively at a satisfactory rate of capitalist profit, and that is why they need depreciation of the productive powers, first of all the labour force. We have no delusion that the government will move on to what is a fundamental demand, to the core of the demands of the labour movement, the unions. We are sure that the opposite will only do by implementing the requirements of large capital and of the European Union. The statements by both the Minister of Labour and other government officials show only the extent of the mockery that workers are accepting today. There is obviously no clear position anywhere that the government will free the negotiation of the basic salary and what is foreseen by it. The Government does not commit to a substantial increase in the minimum wage, let alone the call for workers to return to EUR 751. The statements are clear. They refer to a gradual increase and with symbolic, indeed important. In other words, to say things with their name - and not to be fooled in here too - we are talking about election propaganda. A little euros increase in lower wages, ash in the eyes of the people. The only sure thing is that since 2019 you will get from the employees' pocket, paid with the basic salary, EUR 70 by applying the tax-free law. You're doing it like Hoja's cover. No statement or government plan is made to refer to the terrible age-based separation, i.e. the lowest wage limit starting to pay a young worker. The proposal of the five hundred thirty trade union organisations is clear without loopholes. We resurrect it so that it becomes the law of the state and every political force can be placed on the basis of this proposal. First of all, we insist on organising the struggle, reconstructing the labour union movement, because this is where hope lies. Nothing was spared by anyone. Everything was conquered with hard class struggles, with many sacrifices. From the sofa and fatalism it doesn't change anything either with the logic of less evil by putting hopes on aspiring, various saviours, in government changes of the same managers of the original power. This logic in recent years has not only been bankrupt - we have tried it with SYRIZA too - but it has not brought a single elementary relief to pressurised populace problems. Now, then, we must reconstruct the working people's movement, put forward the real needs of the workers, his fair claims, get rid of the people of employers within the unions, change the relationships, fight to cover the huge economic losses, demand the satisfaction of modern social needs. Moreover, with the current level of development of science and technological application in production, rather than reducing working time and human labor, instead of releasing social time for the worker, the eighth was ten hours, even 12 hours. Unemployment is almost half as strong as the country's working population. It is suggested that there should be no social and family life, that there should not be a single Sunday free. From all sides of social life it appears that the farm system that defends has rotted to the medulla. Workers can, through every small and great struggle, gather strengths, build their own alliance, their own unity, set bows to eventually overthrow this barbarism. This barbarity we live in is not a one-way street. No compromise, we say, with the crumbs and the chamois. At the end of the working class, the workers, all the people, will succeed. There will eventually be winners, but without you and especially against you and your anti-grass policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis, Theocharis, is calling for a short-day absence from abroad due to obligations. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u25	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We shall now proceed to the next honourable Member, Mr Vardalis, who has the floor for five minutes to begin, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that the abolition of the possibility of negotiating minimum wages and collective agreements by the previous governments and maintaining all these laws by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL - was a process of squeeze all wages and minimum wages for protecting the profits of large businesses from the effects of the crisis, a process which particularly aimed at young workers, establishing the separation of old and new ones and making flexible working relationships a norm. Now what does SYRIZA - ANEL Government support? That raising the minimum wage is, in fact, a central objective in the development strategy of this government and that it will put a class in work and that is why it will 'apply' the relevant legislation that has not yet been implemented in our country. That is what you say, Minister, in the holistic plan for the future. Really, what legislation are you referring to? The rhetoric is the question, because in the same plan, page 17, you are answering very specifically. You are referring clearly to the Brutsi Act and, as you yourself say, the current minimum wage framework gives the social partners a central role and a decisive role in the state that the new level of minimum wage will be determined following an extensive impact assessment by independent experts. Really, which independent experts? See, in particular, the lenders' agreement. Whatever happens, they must, first of all, approve it, which will take account of developments in productivity and competitiveness and of the rate of unemployment. In other words, you will leave intact a mechanism that has been voted on by the previous governments. That is what you say in other words. From nowhere, but from nowhere, it does not appear that you will be free to negotiate even at the level of the basic salary. Instead, you will make use of a mechanism linking any changes in the labour market with the effects on growth, productivity and competitiveness. This mechanism, however, has had concrete results in recent years. On the basis of the data from the EBRD and the ERGAN system, therefore, the average gross salary of over two million thousand workers fell only in 2017 - from 949 euros to 927 euros net. In fact, the OECD sees there is still a lot of room for compressing this average wage, which, regardless of the minimum wage structure, says it should continue. In the same direction, the growth of part-time workers is also in operation. Today, more than six hundred thirty thousand part-time employees receive 326 euros wages. Five-eighths are called upon to survive millions of workers as a result of the policy that elasticizes working time and makes labour hands even cheaper, on the other hand, offering huge profits to capital. Another aspect of this mechanism concerns the 15 to twenty-four years of age. These workers are paid at a basic salary of about EUR 510, while clearly remaining EUR 429.19. The positive balances recorded in recent years, i.e. more recruitment than redundancies, are due to a vast majority of the recruitment of young workers at that age. So here's another way to throw the average wage. And you don't say anything about this miserable age-based separation. Why don't you, for example, abolish the underpaid wage? Who's blocking you? But you're not just confined to this. To achieve your goal of reducing the average salary you have converted the OAED from an organisation to protect the unemployed in an organisation at business service. You have turned him into a main pillar of the promotion of elastic forms of work, which turns people into motives and "hot" money for employers. Today, for example, there are thousands of workers employed in employment programmes, consumables, who work in all kinds of flexible work, travelled from an industry to an unqualified sector. In other words, free work - mostly youth - through apprenticeship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me the time of my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u27	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Creating more and better jobs is a promise without any, but no reflection. Strategic targeting of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a further reduction in average wages. On the one hand, you will give EUR 20 to 25 an increase in the minimum wage and on the other hand - the same worker - you will get it about 70 euros by reducing duty. The question of collective labour agreements, the restoration of aggregated rights, was and remains a major front of class confrontation with capital and the forces that serve it and are not a question of consultation and, indeed, by proposing capitalist profitability as your Government does. The only force that can brake capitalist barbarism is the working class with its natural allies, with the struggles of hard, classics that will break the bonds of exploitation and open the roads of the future, struggles that will claim a world without exploitation, a society that will be fruitful of those producing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. We continue with our next questionable Member, Mr Gioka. Please, Mr Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. One of the reasons why the government has not dared to bring the JRC's proposal to the House for debate for about a year and a half, beyond the obvious that it does not want and is not going to make it acceptable, is not to mention and not to discuss again the whole mockery that has been attempting to do to workers and which we all remember. We all remember, for example, the Thessaloniki programme and the reintroduction of the minimum wage. We all remember the promises, when you took over the governance, that depositing the relevant bill is a matter of days. In fact, Mr. Skourletis had the courage to move his hand in the KKE and say, "What will you do when we bring the bill to Parliament next week?". Also, we all remember how months later the days became, years became, and since the immediate reinstatement of the minimum wage, we arrived at the divisional reinstatement. And we reach the current situation, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not only adopted the entire anti-gauge of previous governments, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, but has also placed its own seal. Because the working jungle that exists, the event of the abolition, for example, of Sunday holidays, or the strike law that you passed a few months ago, which has already begun to show its first results, has your own stamp. We come to the present day, when the government is trying to mock the workers in this matter again, to support the memorial - supposedly - era and clean exit, of course, with ruthless arguments, with promises that it is misleading and, above all, to give tests not to the workers, but to give examinations to the capital, to BSE, to the SETE, to the other employers' associations, in which Mr Tsipras has become a very regular manoeuvre. Examine the fact that your own government can mainly with the carrot - unlike New Democracy who invests most in the whip - convinces workers to put back on the goal of capitalist development. That was and is always the subtle role played by social democracy. You're talking about the minimum wage, and what do you say? No reinstatement, this is past, this was written in the snow, but an increase in the minimum wage. What raise? You answer: like the one that was done by the memorial Portugal, 80 minutes a day. Do you want to round it up and do it 1 euro a day? But you've already made sure to get them through the reduction of tax, through the increase of HIS for people's households. Workers are losing them in other ways, such as, for example, the increase in fuel prices at this time. How will this increase be? By state intervention, as you clearly say in the development plan - it was mentioned by Sakis Vardalis earlier - and not by free negotiation as stated in the JRC's proposal for a law, after of course abolishing the Ministerial Council act and returning the minimum wage to EUR 751. We stress this because you have been doing various tricks lately in order to justify this state intervention and to show it with a charitable cloak. So, what do you want to show up for? The law of the government of Samaras since 2013 to bring him back and present him with a charitable cloak and you will do the same with the collective agreements. It will be a return - caricature with prohibitive terms and conditions and, above all, with the minimum wage at low levels, which will act as a mechanism to compress the average salary downwards. So, gentlemen of the government, what you're saying is no more air. What you are talking about is the protection of legality and the fight against black and illegal labour, because the problem, in addition to the illegal work that is being prosperous of all this totalitarian work of labour relations, is legal work. It is, in other words, the legality that is all this legislative monstrous, which you want to codify, which legally shields employers' immunity and employer's exploitation. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the escalation of terrorism in workplaces, by the persecution industry against trade unions, pioneer workers and fighters. Only in the last few months have dozens of timely simple questions been tabled, reports from the JRC about such trade union persecutions. I have them in front of me. Some of these are: "KARYPIDIS", a company "SAVOIDAKIS", a redundancy of an employee member of the board of directors, an undertaking "GREENMEDIA" with the application of compulsion, redundancies and trade union persecution to companies "ANAMET" and "VIANAT" of the Stasinopoulou Group and many others, which we present in the Minutes and which prove that employers have not been very frightened by your policy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Giokas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The opposite happens. It must have been undone and proved, of course, by the latest events in Piraeus, where within four days there were five judicial decisions proclaiming the port workers' strike illegally. This is the legislative framework that you have created and now has become a joke in the workplace. The strike will come out illegal, even if the worker is not wearing a helmet. But in particular, the last strike in Piraeus has a different reading, namely that the workers with their struggle, their organization can overcome obstacles, impose some positive measures in favour of them, and that is the way to follow and to extinguish this whole anti-American arsenal, but above all to radically overthrow this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mr Deli. You have five minutes prototype and three minutes dentextology. Do you want to get them together and make them eight?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u34	Collective agreements are not only the wages of workers, they are the working relationships, working hours, trade union rights, safety and health at work. So we understand the enormous importance of contracts for workers, as we understand and why they are so concerned with these employers, capitalists and their state, since they know that, depending on the content of these contracts, they are increasing or reducing the level of exploitation of workers and their profits. This is why the hit on collective bargaining and wages is firmly the core of the attack on business groups and their governments in order to serve the so-called competitiveness of their economy. That is why this state never leaves collective bargaining free, as a number of laws define their context. Finally, collective agreements are a matter of correlation between workers and their trade unions on the one hand and employers and their State on the other. With the capitalist crisis and the laws of these memoranda, these conventions are overwhelmingly affected. In fact, sectoral and homogeneous contracts are abolished in almost all branches and only business contracts are available, and not everywhere, while many companies apply fixed-term contracts and the phenomenon of the rental workers is being extended. The reintroduction of the contracts which it has, is limited in time and effectively annulled and the compulsoryity and generalization of the collective agreements ceases to apply. You are legislating on the new 'employer' fruit of associations of persons, coupled with the simultaneous abolition of the principle of the most favourable contract, they are creating more and more operational contracts in employers' measures. And so the "ERGANI" system constantly records a steady increase in the rate of flexible work through individual contracts. All this has been here in recent years legislated by all the governments and, of course, a contribution to the wishes of employers. And now SYRIZA is coming and prophesies that once the memorandum is formally closed, he will restore, says, collective bargaining and restore two basic principles of collective agreements, expansion and more favourable regulation. Of course the government at the same time closes the eye to BSE and reassurs it, saying that with these principles which will restore the quality and effectiveness of social dialogue and promote healthy competition in the economy. Because the BSE strategy on this issue is a given, class-specific one and officially declared one. What does BSE say? No return to the pre-crisis regime of collective agreements, stressing the importance of a flexible and effective mix of collective bargaining. He doesn't even use the word contracts. This strategy, which is also the strategy, of course, of all the employers' organisations throughout the European Union, has at its heart the continued pursuit of flexibility, that is, the conflagration of industrial relations, which, together with the reduction of average wages, guarantees their profits. Just this strategy is now serving SYRIZA methodically and insidiously, behind his promises of crumbs that he will give to the lowest wage. Because at the time when it talks about the expansion of sectoral agreements, the government immediately adds the so-called representativeness requirement, with the establishment of a measuring mechanism to measure whether employers who sign a sectoral contract employ 51% of the workers throughout the industry. Last January, it was the same government that made it possible to put even more obstacles to the proclamation of strikes by the trade unions, thus making it even more difficult for them to sign collective agreements. It avoids the government, such as the hell in Lebanon, finally telling us what it will do with the individual contracts that break bones and are constantly multiplying, what it intends to do with those associations of people who operate as a bomb in the collective agreements. Will it abolish them? You can answer it clearly. It is, you see, those reports by the OECD and the European Union, which constantly remind us that the sectoral conventions cannot extend to all undertakings in general, but after taking into account the particular needs of each one. Many words are poverty. Here is the proposal made by over five hundred labour organizations, which has also been made by the JRC! Vote her! Dismantle all the anti-government laws! Restore the basic salary to 750 euros, and the collective agreements as they worked until 2012 and do not forget, of course. Forgotten by, the workers won't say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u37	And you're gonna use dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u38	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The attitude of all the parties to the demands and objectives of the five hundred and thirty trade union organizations is, in our opinion, an additional criterion, but also proof by whom the interests are addressed. On the one hand, there are the interests of pluralism to ensure the competitiveness of business groups and their profitability, a strategy converged by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the other parties and, on the other hand, the interests of the working class, the vast majority of people fighting for dignity in life, for permanent stable work, for the abolition of flexible forms of employment, for collective bargaining and collective bargaining, for restoring the minimum wage to EUR 751; on the other hand, restoring the 15th-fourth fourth wage and pension respectively, for which the JRC is fighting a class trade union movement and highlights the JRC by proposing a law that we are debating here today. The Association of Greek Industrialists and the other employers' associations reiterate at all times that return to the past is utopia, prevents the expansion of flexibility in the labour market, attract investment and increase their profits, as they say, to gain dynamically in the new era of capitalist development. The Government of SYRIZA - ANLL moves on the same anti-grassroots axis as the Greek Industrial Association. After all, it welcomes congratulations. It has already committed itself within the framework of the supplementary memorandum, to codify labour legislation, i.e. to the permanentisation of all the anti-territorial laws of recent years that shaped the working jungle. For example, elastic forms of employment have replaced fixed work with more characteristic examples of employers' arbitrage, particularly in the tourism and commerce sectors. Any sectoral conventions that have been put into the disposable basket. They are in practice bypassed by the multiple, flexible working relationships such as rentals or contract workers, one day contracts, a few days, four months, three months and four months contracts, extractors and many other forms of industrial relations. With these weapons, hoteliers adjust their staff, the number and composition of employees even from day to day. Flexibility reigns in the five-digit hotels in Attica, Crete, Rhodes, many tourist areas in the country. Under the guise of the practical exercise of students by tourist schools, they strengthen the status of apprenticeship, literally sucking children's blood for 300 euros. Those who take more than that are because they work without a day off or shifts, which even reach 12 hours. The financial bleeding of the students by schoolgirls gives its place in the squeezing of the summer season by the hoteliers. The big-time managers to get over with the rights and earnings of older workers, make the associations of people a well-known vehicle for converting the flat-rate sectoral contracts into business and the leveling-up of wages to 586 euros. Where there is a reaction from the workers, the threats of redundancies or reductions of up to EUR 300 are being met. Flexibility involves a number of side effects on their working and living conditions. They're forced to work with their consent to death, without a day off, without hours. Daytime disaster. They have the courage to tell them that by work on the sixth and seventh days their wages will rise. The wages, however, do not increase neither overtime nor rest day work. The wages increase and the wages are imposed on him by the struggle of the workers themselves, to live as human beings and not as slaves. Otherwise we would go back to the 16th and 17th centuries, working over sixteen hours a day for a dish of food and living on average forty years. But all this is happening when hotel owners in 2017 shared 41 million euros per day, expanding their businesses to new wings. A similar picture is the trade sector, where all forms of flexible working relationships have also been generalised, the expansion of working day with lousy wages starting in the sector from EUR 180 to EUR 200. The planned abolition of Sunday holidays and the liberated hours of shops combined with the adjustment of working time especially in recent years have led the industry to have an unstable, irregular working time, while occupational accidents and occupational diseases have increased. They strike the heart of the life of the commercial employee, the life of the family as a whole. The elements of the "ERGAN" and EIC concerning the private sector's flow of employment, give the real picture of recent years by generalizing the trend towards flexible job recruitment, notably through individual parttime and rotating contracts. Over 50% of recruitment in 2014, 2015, 2016 is part-time and rotating. Full-time recruitment decreased from 79% in 2009 to 45% in 2016, while flexible job recruitment in 2009 was at 21% of the total recruitment. In 2016 it reached 55%. The conversion of individual contracts from full-time to part-time and rotating employment between 2009 and 2016 increased by 202%, while the unilateral conversion of individual contracts into rotation by the employer has, please, increased by 790%! The introduction of flexible labour relations not only in Greece but also in developed capitalist countries, coupled with the weakening of collective agreements, low wages, high unemployment, increased undeclared work - registered or not - the unpaid work in about nine hundred thousand employees, consolidate the labour jungle as a new hub of labour markets, as the Association of Greek Industrialists says. The capital is already in place for the new anti-government period, with the support of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government of all civil servants and parties who not only support, maintain and deepen the anti-government legislative framework, but with fair growth tales, return to normality, diffusion of the benefits of development throughout society attempt to disarm and trap the working class. Finally - and I conclude, Mr President - the JRC's proposal for a law, the demands of the five hundred thirteen unions, federations, workers' centres, the case of collective agreements is a battle on wages, on the whole of labour relations, on the day-to-day, on health and safety at work. It's a fight for the total riot of the anti-virus. The working class and poor people must follow the way of the struggle to overturn this policy, fight to cover the losses and defend their lives, to reconstruct the forces of the class trade union movement, the labour movement as a whole, and strengthen the class trade union movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The last Member of Parliament is Vice-President Lambroulis. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The political direction of the timely question put by our party, the positions it contains for the abolition of the anti-grassroots measures that strike wages, pensions, collective agreements, labour, insurance, social rights and also the objectives of a struggle that we are calling for, is in line with popular needs. They can become a weapon in the hands of the working people's movement, to help strengthen their struggle. We believe that today's debate can contribute to and be exploited by the workers themselves, who are close to capitalist barbarism and anti-grassroots policy, in order to draw conclusions on the attitude of the political forces, to reassess the political proposals and practices of each party, on the basis of which policy corresponds to the interests and social position of the working class, the people's strata and youth from the working people. The escalation of the attack and the consequences for all working, insurance and other rights of workers to stimulate competitiveness in the period of the crisis have an impact on all aspects of the health of the working class, with an increase in poverty, unemployment, labour insecurity, but also on the deterioration of the conditions of health protection from occupational risk. Intensification of work, reductions in occupational risk prevention and response measures, capital savings, extension of flexible working relationships, liberalization of working hours and adjustment of working time according to the aims and needs of capitalist production, employers' arbitrariness, combined with the release of redundancies, are directly linked to the burden of exposure to occupational risk. These measures are the directions of the European Union before the capitalist crisis. They are reflected in its strategies for health and safety at work, as well as in the relevant decisions on labour and insurance rights. They apply to all countries classified according to the level of capitalist development, competition, etc. They are therefore evidence that capitalist growth, both in the crisis and in development, is constantly leading to a relative deterioration in the conditions of health and safety at work. They demonstrate that they prevent the full use of scientific and technological achievements to prevent and tackle occupational risk. But, above all, they demonstrate that the protection of the worker's life will never go hand in hand with the protection of the profits of the few. So for the JRC, but also for the class-oriented movement, it becomes particularly important to highlight the consequences of capitalist development on workers' health, to call for prevention and protection measures from occupational risk, to reveal the essential reason for the burden of health, which is not the nature of work, as the apologists and parties claim, all the rest of you who support the exploitive system, but the orientation of production to ensure profitability and competitiveness. To serve this direction is the vertical increase in employers' crimes - rather than accidents at work - in the private and public sectors, with the timely complicity of all governments, as well as of the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government, forcing workers to work in horrendous conditions for a poor part of the horror. The abolition of minimum legislative or State services to protect health and safety at work, the substantial abolition of safety and hygiene controls at the workplace, the absence of a State body of inspectors and occupational doctors, all of these are a serious political choice over time. They were before the crisis and were made big by the crisis management policies for the benefit of the monopolies. This is a policy that treats working class as a consumable species and which sacrifices workers and workers on the altar of profit. That is why today the need to link the fight for labour, insurance, wage rights, with the intensity of work action to protect the life, safety and health of workers and workers is all the more urgent, for a classic conflict with the exploitive system and the anti-competitive policy that gives rise to and exacerbates all the work problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u41	Before giving the floor to the Minister of State, Mrs Ahtzioglou, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the University School of Galia Heraklion and from the 3rd Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have the floor, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very often when we talk about labour we are focusing on what happened between 2010 and 2014, the period of great deregulation of labour rights and we may forget that the path of deregulation in labour has started several years ago. This may also prove to be extremely clear: it shows that deregulation of work was not a plan for the enforcement of the Troika's attitudes or, anyway, it was not just that, but it was to a very large extent also a plan that the previous governments enjoyed as a clear principle. And I'll explain that. For years there have been two very distinct and very clear plans for work, and Mr Mitsotakis has been making sure that it reminds us of this very often and in a very clear way. On the one hand, it is the plan for work expressed by the New Democracy - it is very often expressed by its President - who considers that the squeeze of labour costs, as he calls it, that the pressure on the reality of wages and labour rights is the fuel to achieve growth and strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy, a model that I would schematically call it the model of cheap and complete unprotected work, a position that, as I said, is clear, is a position of principle, is ideological. This is the model served by this party during the crisis. But that was also the model that served during the previous period and which, in our analysis, was very much the reason that led to bankruptcy. Mr Mitsotakis made this clear to us in the recent General Assembly of the BSE crisis. There we heard him unfold all the political position on labour and on the future of work again. It argued that it would not allow the revival of collective labour agreements. It called, once again, an idealization to strengthen the workers' negotiating position. He stated he would strengthen private insurance. It was directly against the expansion of sectoral collective labour agreements and against the overpowering of sectoral labour contracts against operational and individual labour contracts, when what we have already lived since 2010-2014 is that individual and operational collective labour contracts are the main lever to reduce wages and the main tool to keep wages fixed. So these positions were expressed in the General Assembly of BSE. I think it is good that the distinct plans are formulated so clearly, that it is good for political controversy. But two months earlier, on another occasion, he said that the eighth is outdated, stable work is outdated, flexibility is the only way out, positions which were reflected in his party's meetings. And I think that we cannot forget the position it held during the second evaluation last year when the government made a great effort in Europe, within the institutions of the negotiations, to restore collective bargaining in the country, where Mr Mitsotakis described the collective labour agreements as 'left-wing ideals', identified as the most extreme cycles of lenders. So the plan is clear from that side. And unfortunately for the workers in this country this plan has been implemented. This policy was implemented and proved socially overwhelming, as it was also economically ineffective, because it was unable to bring what the project itself defined as its objective, namely to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Despite the spectacular decrease of 37.5% of labour costs per unit of product, in 2010-2014, exports until the end of 2014 recorded an anemic increase of 4%. In other words, although the Greek society has been poorly plunged, the risk of poverty for the working population has been expelled by thousands of businesses, although the risk of material deprivation for the workers has fallen, the industry has not increased its turnover - I say this again on the basis of its own argument that this will help the competitiveness of the Greek economy - but only its profit margin. So this model has been applied and failed. We cannot forget, when we discuss wages, that in 2012, within one night, the PASOK and the New Democracy legally reduced the minimum wage by 22% and 32% for young people, bringing the minimum wage for full-time under what was in place at that time on the market, from the average wage for part-time employment. The average wage for parttime work was then about 600 euros and the New Democracy and the PASOK by law established that the minimum wage would be at EUR 586. That is why we cannot forget when and how things happened. And they were because they are a nuclear element of their position in the workplace. On the opposite side of this model, the clear model, is our project for work. What does that plan say? It says that strengthening and protecting employment is a key factor in development. In other words, in our development plan, which we tabled and discussed in the House, we presented it in the Eurogroup, and in the other Member States too, it says briefly that growth is achieved through increased productivity, which will come from strengthening the position of workers, strengthening their negotiating position and greater job protection. So, in our model, protection of work is not a pillar of the social state, but a key element in achieving growth. That is why we are discussing the distribution of wealth, how wealth is distributed, at the same time as the debate on how it is produced. In other words, in our model, the question of the production and distribution of wealth goes together. We do not discuss, as in the New Democracy plan, how we will achieve growth and then we will see how this wealth is distributed. How do we do this plan lined up? We are saying to strengthen the protection of work, the negotiating position of workers, the workers' available income and, however, cover blind points of the system that existed before the crisis. In other words, our project is not talking about protection, it is not complete - to put it more correctly - the reintroduction of the labour protection system as it existed before 2010, but while restoring basic principles of the system, such as collective bargaining, at the same time trying to shield workers from points where workers were left unprotected and before 2010, so-called precarious workers, invisible workers. I'll explain more specifically what that is. So we have two different models clear, with clear separation and classmark. How do we now implement this plan. The plan is already being implemented in committee and the financial programme. This is why it is important that I also highlight this to the JRC Members? Because when you try to implement this project, which is against the basic concept of the troika, it is completely contrary to its ideological position, you obviously cannot achieve all the aspects of your plan. You negotiate all the time, you lose somewhere, you win somewhere, there's retreat. I think, however, that the victories that are taking place are very important to the daily lives of the workers. So this plan is already being implemented within the financial adjustment programme. Obviously, public policy margins will be much larger after August, when the country will also emerge from the crisis. What have we done so far? The first and most important is the reduction of unemployment, which has been reduced by six percentage points since we entered into it, that is, over the last three years, this significant reduction has occurred. The percentage remains extremely high. Nobody's gonna say anything opposite. However, the reduction in unemployment is also very important in improving working conditions and conditions. Totally differently, workers negotiate working conditions when unemployment is in God and completely differently when there is a very low unemployment. I think that these are matters of simple logic. The second very high priority we have set is the reintroduction of collective agreements. And I'll say it once again for those who, I don't know why, they don't want to understand it. The Government has legislated to reinstate the two main principles of collective bargaining for August 2018. In two months' time, then, the two basic principles of collective bargaining are restored: more favourable regulation and expansion. Expansionability says what Law 1876/1990 said. We're not messing with the way proliferation was defined. And before he said, since 1876/1990, that when a sectoral collective agreement covers 50% of the employees of the industry, the Minister may declare it generally compulsory and commit to those who did not sign it and the other employers, that is to say, who did not sign it. This comes back in August 2018, we have already legislated. And we've got the latest technical details in the last evaluation. The second basic principle that comes back in August is the principle of more favourable regulation, what Mr Mitsotakis said is that he does not want to come back. He said clearly: 'If I come, I will not allow this to rest'. What does the principle of more favourable regulation say? That when there are several collective agreements, a sector, an operational or more sectoral one, it will prevail over the one which contains the most favourable term for the worker. So an operational contract will only have a reason to sign when it is better than the sectoral collective agreement. These have already been legislated and closed. In addition to collective agreements, however, we have also adopted a number of other regulations which, in our view, are extremely important for the protection of workers and the improvement of their negotiating position. By the law passed by Parliament in September 2017 - a law that was supported by a large majority, and which was the result of an extensive dialogue with the workers' centres and trade unions throughout the country and, in fact, this law reflects the constant demands of workers - we predicted that they will be excluded from the public financing of enterprises that systematically violate labour law, we have laid strict rules in respect of the maintenance of working hours and overtime, we have provided for the possibility of issuing a payment order for employees' employees, that is to say, that workers can make an enforceable title at the expense of the employer's property when they stay unpaid. We have also laid down rules on the maintenance of labour law in construction projects, which until then was a completely unregulated landscape, and we have predicted that the labour disputes are quickly decided by the courts. We have put rules to prevent any abuse of the so-called voluntary departure of the worker, which until then has been very abusive by employers in this possibility of voluntary withdrawal. We anticipated, in accepting the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, the unilaterally damaging change, that is to say, when the workers are not paid for being able to assume that this amounts to redundancies and receive immediate redundancies. We predicted that it would be possible from the next day to get the OAED unemployment benefit, which until then had not been able to do so. Let me not forget the very important regulation on the overpriced of workers, which we have also legislated on. In other words, when a company goes bankrupt, workers will first be satisfied for their jobs and then other creditors then banks and other creditors will be satisfied. It is extremely important to regulate the protection of workers. While in the Minister of Labour's bill again, which we have already put into public consultation, we put rules on contractors for the first time, so that the whole series of contractors and contractors and subcontractors can be responsible for their wage requirements, for their marks. We are thus creating a dreadful incentive to abuse the contractors, since the contractor will no longer be responsible as the direct employer will. In the same bill, there is also a new architecture for the fine for undeclared work, where we now give justice to the undeclared worker. We will give incentives to enter into full-time contracts and we are creating a presumption that at least three months will be paid for the undeclared employee. In short, I have described a number of legislative initiatives that we have taken throughout this period and which I think demonstrate very clearly the plan to strengthen work, protect and strengthen the negotiating position of workers. I do not have time to say about a number of other things, which are not legislative, such as the Labour Inspectorate, which we supported with human resources, with tools, with economic tools and now makes its presence felt in the workplace. There are results. Workers feel that the Inspection Body is next to them. It slowly breaks the climate of fear in business. Undeclared work in the highly invasive sectors has fallen since 19%, which was when we received, at 12% in 2018 and will continue to go down. I have no time to mention the daily intervention of the Ministry of Labour through its tripartite conciliation meetings, where a number of workers' requests are made when employers, workers and state sit on the same table, with the help of the Ministry of Labour, are resolved for the benefit of the workers. In their overwhelming majority - I have said it several times in the House - these tripartite compromisers are resolved for the benefit of workers, whether they are paid for, or are about the withdrawal of redundancies, etc. These are just some of the interventions to protect and strengthen work in the private sector. We must not forget that similar efforts are being made in the public sector as well. Let me remind you of the political choices of the previous governments, which have imposed extensive redundancies in the public sector, have designed to privatise critical sectors, such as the cleanliness of the municipalities and have created an extremely favourable environment for the generalisation of public contractors, which the current government has prevented. Sixteen thousand workers were recruited in health, eight thousand in the cleanliness of the municipalities. We are fighting against the generalised 'family' of public contractors, and the same as regards the Memorandum of Understanding, which the previous ones had undertaken on the relationship between recruitment and departures in the public sector, which, next year from one to five, was when we received it, will be one by one, so it will enable us to carry out a significant number of recruitments in critical areas of health, education and control mechanisms. We must always add the so-called social wage, namely the services provided to health and education, that is to say the fact that free access has been granted to the health of our two and a half million uninsecured fellow citizens, the abolition of five-and-a-half in hospitals, the creation of the local primary health care units for the construction of a modern social state. So all that I have described has been implemented within the financial adjustment programme. Obviously, after our exit from the programme, we have much more room for our policy, which serves the project, which I have initially schematically described to get together. It is a declared objective of this government - it has also entered into our development plan - to increase the minimum wage so that workers gradually begin to recover part of what they have lost in the years of the crisis. I think we have proved, in particular by the law of September 2017, and the bill, which we now have in the consultation, that we have open our ears to the demands of the trade unions and the parliamentary forces, who want to contribute productively to our efforts to strengthen the position of workers. Obviously, it cannot be our own attitude, when something comes from one side, which incorporates a completely different project for work. This proposal, tabled by the Communist Party, is as a text, a political proposal. It's not a legal text, it's not a law proposal in fact. It has terrible problems of unconstitutionalism, it has terrible ambiguity, it does not make clear what collective agreement will apply every time, it does not ask for the reintroduction of compulsoryity. It says that any collective agreement must be binding, leaving out what collective agreement will ultimately apply when more or what is deemed to have been signed by the most representative trade union organisation. I also think that the part of the homogeneous professions, which are given a priority to homogeneous professions, when the labour movement itself has rejected the uniform collective agreements. In any case, I understand the political aim of the text, but precisely because we ultimately take responsibility for the exercise of the policy, which is why we have legislated to reinstate collective labour agreements, and this BSE has admitted, the SCAI has admitted it, Mr Mitsotakis has admitted it, it has been admitted that the entire front of the forces, which did not want the collective labour agreements to come back. This whole front has admitted that it has been defeated and that collective labour agreements, which they do not want, will return to the country in August 2018. The BSE has repeatedly said that this tripartite, which blows it up in the air, as it says a lot - more favourable regulation, expansion, unilateral recourse to arbitration - could not break it and will return to the country in August 2018. So I wonder who exactly helps the JRC Members say that this will not happen when they have already been legislated and will be implemented. Who helps to deceive all these measures, which I have described, which are measures to strengthen work, protect workers and strengthen their negotiating position? Does the rules on contracts for the protection of their wage rights and their insurance rights help or help workers? And if they help them, then who helps to say that they don't matter? Does it help workers to establish the payment order, so that they can get their jobs, get an enforceable title at the expense of the employer's property? And if it helps them, who helps you say that doesn't matter? Does it help workers to finally have rules on contractors, rules on overtime, rules on working hours, rules on construction work? And if it helps them, who exactly helps deceive all these measures? I think that every one of these regulations - and that they know about those closest to the world of work - is helping workers in their everyday lives, and that is why we are responsible for implementing this policy, putting an end to deregulation and better shielding the framework for the next day. In this context we will continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has been speaking for six minutes because the President spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u44	Here we heard Mrs Ahtsoglou's election speech about what she will do, about how workers will live their new paradise, but she has not been mentioned at all, and she has probably completely repudiated the JRC's proposal for a law, which is the proposal of five hundred thirteen federations and unions, which have been processed and, indeed, has the heavy title, saying that this proposal is unconstitutional. She probably didn't read it well and went through very roughly, saying that it's not clear what collective agreement will apply when there are many collective agreements. But we are saying it clearly: 'the most favourable for workers'. If you don't read them very well, it's not our fault, Minister. Of course, he has again resorted to the known tactics towards the New Democracy. In fact, time has stopped in 2014 for the Minister. A series of impacts of the legislative framework - of course the largest degree of flexibility on the labour market has been achieved by the Government of New Democracy and the PASOK - we are experiencing them today. After 2014, it's been three and a half years, where you're government. And not only have you not reversed this course, but it has also accelerated towards the most unfavourable, to the detriment of the workers. Are we wrong that the flexibility in the labour market is even greater? This is what BSE itself says in the recent press release yesterday. The flexibility in determining wages in Greece is approached by the average European Union level of twenty-eight and indeed, with a particular rise in the years 2016, 2017, 2018. A special rise in flexibility! So the BSE, as the Ministry of Labour, gives you credit, that you are even further moving on the flexibility of wages, approaching the average level. Is it - or is it not - false that most recruitment is done in the form of part-time work, flexible employment at the expense of stable work? Is this picture overturned? Not only has it not been overturned, but it is even more important to reduce labour, as you say, it is under these terrible conditions of part-time work, underemployment and even jobs, which you are subsidising as Ministry with the money of workers from the various training and retraining programmes. You finance capitalists, so they can hire for a short time, for eight months, for twelve months, depending on the programs, cheap workers who pay them those who work. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Have you changed the situation in terms of intensification of work and growth rates? Only the indicator of accidents at work and deaths, in particular in the public sector and in the wider public sector, such as municipalities, shows a completely different picture. Have you reversed the situation with the wages that exist? In 2017 with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, how much did it reduce, Minister? It was reduced by 2.7%, the average wage being at the core of capital, because the OECD considers it to be the main indicator of improving the competitiveness of an economy. You did that, too. Has the situation been reversed in relation to the trade unions' persecutions and redundancies? Mr Yiannis Giokas tabled a set of questions a little while ago about the persecution and dismissal of trade unionists. Has the situation been reversed in relation to the right of workers to the strike? You barely raised that right by your own law. In fact, the developments in the port with the strike of the port workers at Problem II and III of the PPA show the real situation. Within four days, five strikes were declared illegal. Here justice, class justice, has neither bureaucracy nor time at all when the interests of capital are to be defended. You have adopted and made your own ownership of all the anti-government laws provided for in the Memorandum. You are also making use of Mr Brutsi's law in relation to the minimum wage. What do you say, for example, in your plan: 'A development strategy for the future' on page 17? What you presented a moment ago, Minister. Look. You wouldn't just sit down on BSE and what you're told. What do you say, then, by accepting the whole of Mr Brutsi's arrangements? That the minimum wage will be determined on the basis of the strengths of the economy, the level of competitiveness and productivity of the labour market. Therefore, lower wages are an indicator of the development of the competitiveness of the economy. In other words, subjugate the minimum wage and the interests of workers in the interests of large capital and business groups when you consider that to be your criterion. You're doing another thing. You say that any arrangement will be determined in relation to the minimum wage and the rate of unemployment. So, do you consider the level of wages as a factor of unemployment? That it's a burden on unemployment? Is that what you tell the workers? What is the responsibility of workers' wages on the level of unemployment and must be reduced so that more jobs can be found? Aren't the capitalists responsible? From this point of view, you have adopted the entire anti-Fraud Armory of the New Democracy and the PASOK. In fact, you're taking it a step further. You have claimed that you are strengthening the workers' negotiating position. How do you strengthen it? Preserving flexible forms of employment? By maintaining the unacceptable status of workers' associations, which can sign contracts with the employer? Is that how you reinforce him? Or the hitting of the strike right? On the substance, you are right, Minister. What you are saying is that these measures concerning the labour market did not start with the memoranda. The eruption on the labour market began a long time ago. It wasn't for the sake of ideality. It was because the conditions imposed on the labour market. This was imposed by the wishes of shipowners, industrialists, bankers. From there it started, for these interests it began to pour out on the labour market. And at this level you had nothing to say about BSE. Yes, they're clear here. Not only do they ask to remain what has existed so far, but instead they are calling on you to take further steps. And you promise. Reduction of corporate tax burden. New employment benefits, you have now said from this Step, we will give the capitalists as long as they increase employment. The BSE crisis is calling for a reduction in non-wage labour costs. Are you going in that direction? And the rest of the announcements you made about the reintroduction of collective agreements to the earlier regime are words of air, precisely because you do not beat the Act of the Ministerial Council, which reduced the minimum wage for young workers and 25% for older workers. Keep this unacceptable separation and now with the two different minimum wages. So, what level should the collective agreements begin? From this level of poverty and impoverishment. In fact, you are putting on the point of representativeness and much more so that, in the case of unilateral action, you also have a new mechanism, which will, in fact, have the last word on justice and its award. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that all these measures you are taking, the measures you are implementing, have as a criterion exactly how they will further shield competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And in their name, you are sacrificing labour and insurance rights, following exactly the best practices in the European Union, such as those in force in France with Macron, Italy and elsewhere, because that is where you want to drive. And you believe in the same God as the New Democracy and the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, we're in ten minutes. You're also getting the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u46	I'll be done. Not only do you not go to reverse the course, but you are burdening and getting worse with your own policies the position of the working class towards the capitalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr. Gregory Stoyannides has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece two are the pillars of the trade union movement: No 1264/1982 and No 1876/1990. Law 1264/1982 defines trade union freedoms and Law 1876/1990 defines collective bargaining. The Greek Parliament voted unanimously when the Left, together with the Communist Party, participated in this government. I fully agree that the Left, whenever given the opportunity, must rule. Only in this way can it support labour rights. Law 1876/90 was considered by the most innovative laws in the European Union at the time. What does L. 1876/90 give? It enables workers to produce fair. This is very important. The regulatory requirements of a collective agreement, the breach of the rules, are criminally prosecuted against the employer. So these attempted PASOK and the New Democracy since 2010 and then abolish them. We resist that. I also heard many Members of the Communist Party accuse operational collective agreements. I don't know what personal experience you have from business collective agreements. Let me tell you, because I have negotiated for more than ten years an operational collective agreement, that it is this operational collective agreement, which enabled my fellow Members not to have a single euro at the time of the memorandum when most workers in that country had reductions. Operational collective bargaining enables primary unions, when they are genuine unions, to fight for better working conditions. With the national general collective labour agreement and sectoral collective agreements as a bulb, business collective agreements create better conditions. That's why it's wrong to accuse business collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Communist Party renounces us that we have failed to discuss the proposal for a law on labour. First of all, I would like to point out that the text submitted does not constitute a piece of legislation with specific provisions as a political text. Many provisions in this show serious legal problems and could not be introduced for discussion, due to their ambiguity and generality, as all institutions of labour law are abolished, while other provisions are not in any consistency with the other texts of the laws, to which they are proposed to be incorporated. I would say that this is a wish, in terms of labour relations, which on several points and with the necessary corrections we could agree on. There are, of course, points which really concern me, as they turn collective bargaining into the regime of Law 3239/1955, namely, before Law 1876/1990, which reminds me of the fact that it is one of the few laws, which was passed unanimously by the parties of this House, which has been tested for decades and has successfully regulated the conditions for remuneration and work of workers, which has been judged by many of the courts, without any cracks, until it has been established by the PASOK and the New Democracy. Our aim is for collective bargaining to return to the regime that existed before. We have already taken steps in this direction. In 2015 we restored six months for the national general collective agreement and as of August 2018 the expansion will take effect. This, together with the principle of more favourable regulation, will relaunch the system of collective bargaining. With your proposal, I see that you are seeking confusion in the scope of collective bargaining, but also in the division of the unit of regulations by business and industry. You also ask for things that already apply. Unilateral referral to arbitration has been instituted. I do not see, however, asking for the New Democracy to improve arbitration, which has transformed collective agreements into a court of law. I do not see you asking for the unilateral criteria adopted by the New Democracy, which are binding on the arbitrators, so that the institution is clearly in favour of the employer. You are also calling for the institutions of part-time work to be abolished and for a fair conversion of all contracts to be carried out in full. This proposal is clearly unconstitutional and you know it. So I say to you that Mr Brutsi's flexible forms of work want to be regulated in order to avoid unfair behaviour by employers, which the New Democracy has strengthened through its legislation. Come on, then, to identify the real problems and find solutions. Don't bring this House as legal press releases. That's how we do only racing exercise, but we're not really helping. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we, throughout our entire commitment, are taking a serious responsibility for legislative initiative to restore what the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have shattered. Labour law has, in fact, in recent years with the actions of these parties and the legislators of specific persons named has been decentralised. We are trying to rebuild it and our interventions so far are many and important. The list is long. I will mention very little: we have established the compulsory payroll through a bank, we have excluded businesses that violated labour law through public funding, we have provided for the temporary closure of an undertaking, in the event of breaches of labour law and for the definitive interruption of serious infringements, we have restricted undeclared work on building projects by establishing the electronic announcement of the staff employed and much more. In conclusion, I would like to mention that in January 2015 we asked the Greek people for the mandate to govern the country. In September 2015, we requested renewal of this order after the signing of the third memorandum. The Greek people again gave us a mandate to rule until September 2019. In September 2019, I believe that the Greek people will renew this mandate, because the majority of the Greek people know that the proposal of the New Democracy is at the expense of the majority of the Greek people and for the benefit of the few and chosen, whose interests are defended by the current leadership of the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much Mr Stoyannides. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has been speaking for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical question tabled by the Communist Party of Greece I think is coming at a time and time when it makes it very useful, in the sense that the opportunity is given to emerge in the clearest, three and a half years after the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL, the absolute hypocrisy, the lies, the idealism of SYRIZA, how much they cost and what was the price for the workers and pensioners of this SYRIZA policy. And secondly, there is the opportunity to show that SYRIZA and ANEL have used these three weak, sensitive social groups, pensioners, unemployed and workers to climb to power. And three and a half years later, they were the three categories that hit tax, pension cuts, wage cuts, more than any other category. After using them to keep in the chair, she threw them into the Care of her purposes. This is SYRIZA. But now let us slowly look at the environment in which this is shaped and monitored by the workers, this social category of the people of work, what they are experiencing and what they have taken over these three and a half years. Firstly, let us see the picture of the unemployment that SYRIZA invokes. It closed in 2017 to 21%, when in the rest of Europe the average is 8%. And when you know very well that unemployment, if we continued our policy, would have fallen to 17%. That's the reality. Secondly, one in two new recruitments - it says 'ERGANE', which you call for - is in flexible forms of employment. Thirdly, one out of three workers is in the environment of a poor worker. You reached one in three wages at 323 euros a month, with details of EVKA in November 2017, your own data. The undeclared work, for which you often give evidence of inaccurateity, received it at 40.2%. We delivered the undeclared work to you at 12% and three and a half years after you held it at 11%. You have not reduced the undeclared work by you who have reported with fire reasons in the election, while the job for undeclared work and its hit and its eruption took place in the two years of the Samara government. The issue of collective redundancies with Law 4472. You applauded the previous law, which gave a few small percentages, which were reasoned in the way the redundancies could be made. And what did you do, Minister? You are the Minister and the party - who would not do so by any other party in Greece, but by no means - who, with No 4472 and by Article 17, brought the total freedom of collective redundancies into the legal framework of our country. What did you say before? To raise the environment of hypocrisy and how you used workers, retired, unemployed. Didn't you say in 2014 and in the 2015 election campaign for a minimum wage of EUR 751? Where's that announcement of yours? Where's your proclamation? You took him to 323 euros. Didn't you say that you would double the unemployment benefit to double the unemployed? Where's this announcement? Where is he really? And what about flexibility in the labour market? Did you not say that by means of a law the next day you will abolish flexible forms of employment, because it is worse against workers? Where is this when one out of two into the labour market today is in a flexible form of employment? You've made fun of everyone. You used the workers, you used the retired, the unemployed, to get their vote, to buy out a hope of false, polluting, to become government and rule the way you govern. But, ladies and gentlemen, things are not stopping here. Let me just get to the point of the matter. Because with the Communist Party of Greece, which invoked my own law, n. 4172/2013, we will agree that here you are also mocking and pretending and you are not taking a clear position. Listen up. Personally, I had the honor of making Law 4172/2013. My perspective is that this law is in favour of workers. It sets a new framework in which the minimum wage can be calculated, taking into account the potential of the economy. The JRC has another approach. He's respected. But we're both clean. They say that, I say that. What do you think? You took off the holistic development program and didn't dare say you were on the line of n.4172/2013. He is the one you defend, the one you denounced before. But you don't name him. And the most hypocritical is what I'm going to tell you. On the last pages of your programme, you are also setting the timetable for raising the minimum wage when I have repeatedly criticised you that the re-evaluation and increase of the minimum wage - which should have been raised by the minimum wage for those of the EUR 323 weak - since the third tenth day of February 2018, to begin the process of the law. Whether you are unconscious, whether you are negotiable or indifferent. You're one of three. You cannot have a law in force that helps workers and do not perform them, do not start the process. And what do you say in your holistic program? In the schedule you say unbelievable that it will be implemented in the last quarter of 2018. What does that mean? It means that if and if it grows, you will go from 2019. Basically, workers will have lost in these difficult years the possibility of raising the minimum wage in 2018. A year lost even in a legislated context, which you received and no one prevented you from implementing. One more thing. You are now talking about raising the minimum wage. Who, you? You didn't just waste a year. Listen, I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, of the FBI. In November 2017, the net average wage of all employees, 2,1 million employed employees, is EUR 777,9. And what did you do? What was SYRIZA doing that on the 9,500 euros tax-free of the New Democracy and the Samara Government that you received - you also complained about the PASOK at the time - he will bring them up to 12,000 and that you will resign and fall? You reduced your tax duty to 5,600 euros from 1-1-2020. What does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, for the workers and for all, this means the loss of a tax on about EUR 3,900 with 22% rate, making a figure of EUR 858 net loss, Minister, that is an entire wage lost for every worker in Greece with the signature SYRIZA - ANEL. It wasn't just team redundancies, so it wasn't just lies. You've lost a whole year to raise the minimum wage. They also lose an entire wage because of your idea of self-deception and incompetence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u52	I'm closed, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I should like to close with one comment which I have to make because it concerns Parliament as a whole. Look, Minister, it's a personal matter I'm going to say. You and the party are personally concerned. Our democracy has rules, it has an operating framework. It is unacceptable that forty-six New Democracy Members asked you a question, you ignored them, you despised them. It is forty-six Members, over half the New Democracy parliamentary group! It's about all the parties. You have violated and discredited the Rules of Procedure of the House and the two and a half million pensioners. And you are not here to tell Parliament what you will do with the reductions that you have already made to your law, the 4472 Act, the Ahtsoglou Act, which you have already included in the proportionate studies, which you have already included in your own law, which is already in the updated fourth memorandum, which is already in the context of the holistic plan, which you presented. And it is challenging and insulting for both Parliament and for our democracy to despise the procedures, the laws and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the draft law of the Government, which we understand as a draft law with the prerequisites, all policies that disprove and make a fool of the government's clean exits are confusing. Pension curing in 2019, tax-free at EUR 5,000 in 2020, abolishing VAT deductions on specific islands, limiting the possibility of unilateral recourse to arbitration and much more. We have a minister, however, who nevertheless recommends and explains to the co-government parliamentary groups, is hammering the history of clean exit with all these measures and those contained in the draft law. And while this is demonstrated by the actions, provisions, his works, he has the courage to pretend to be the leader of the inner-party opposition. We want to remind him here that since 2015 it is not Anti-Politicism and that since 2015, also the reasons for internal party opposition are for those who want to eat hay. And they have been dramatically frustrated for you, unfortunately. Let the Minister of Finance cease to be the innocent of blood and appear at the National Representation as a humorist, a parishionist. That's not it! He is the one with the initiative of all these politicians, who are engaging in clean exits. Two more words, Mr President, on general issues. It is disgraceful, I think, that we have come up with a very serious issue in our country, our foreign policy, for which the Democratic Reconciliation and Potami have held a very serious attitude, as a country to expect results from a telephone conversation that will eventually come. And we want to say this: do not think that agreements on serious issues are solved by our phones, and since the telephones solve your issues, do not think that what you are going to solve is solutions for all of us. We demand clarity and transparency in what you do in our foreign policy in relation to FYROM. Furthermore, to stop the government - not all of the government, but certain members of it - serving Erdogan, unwittingly, with the mistakes they make every day as a candidate for Turkey. Because what you do and you say is a lot. I doubted you, of course, but it's a pass in a pre-election period in the neighbouring country. You need to be serious. It is not possible on the same television channel, at 11 o'clock, for the majority MEP, to tell the Greek people "people calm, cool" and in five minutes the other Members of the majority, the smaller party, talk about "casus belli". Are you going to drive us crazy? You wouldn't drive us crazy, we know you from the start, but the Greek people aren't your fault at all. On the subject of your ministry, it's a topical question. On another matter from your department, I'm going to make a report. Ladies and gentlemen, have you heard what is going on in the disability asylum? The asylum of immunities is a legal person of private law, founded in the 19th century. Have you heard what's going on there with administrations that refuse to give accounts, which deny the former Vice-President Ms. Lilika Vassiliakou, to provide the documents she asks for, which file complaints, which are being taken into police service by serious people and an age, because of your attempt to cover courses? That's what Mrs Vassilakou says. To wake up the National Delegation to Ms. Duru's associates, let's see what's going on there. There's nothing more our space is asking for from documents. This is not the case for disputes or conflicts. But instead of documents, we have police stations, self-defense, etc. That's what your ministry needs to see. Now on the question of questioning at the time and above, the Communist Party is doing well and brings this question to the House, as far as collective agreements are concerned, even though it strikes us, in his view, which we are aware of. I want to report to the National Representation on my own affairs, because I have been the Minister for Labour for a year and on my CV when I come to the National Representation I bring together the introduction of collective bargaining to the public, which, as chairman of the relevant committee, was then the Secretary General of the Ministry of the Interior with the Minister of Alekos Papadopoulos, we made it a law of the Hellenic Republic. I was the chairman of this committee, I have drawn up the relevant texts after dialogue with the ADED at the time. As Minister of Labour in the 2009-2010 critical period, undeclared work, alternatives, flexible forms of employment and work, has been streamlined from my own legislative initiative. And to me you don't have to say anything. I objected to what you have adopted today, such as the restriction of the right to strike, which the Communist Party is talking about to you, and the whole opposition to you is blaming you. Then, of course, in the years of the crisis, you, in the face of all efforts to keep something up, reduced the minimum wage. But I have not seen four years of government you now grow by one euro. It is EUR 586 and EUR 510 for those under twenty-five years. I did not see you in 2014's proposals to do anything and now, in this question of the Communist Party, talk about increases, you who have limited the right to strike. Talk about increases you who are taxing what is moving, talking in the belief that if elections occur you will be judged on the basis of words, ignoring what imminent intellectuals have said that people are judged in their actions, not in their words. And your actions are specific and your staff has collapsed. In the years of stress by Mr Koutroumanis there has been a great intervention in the area of meteorology for three months to draw up contracts and maintain the four basic benefits, heavy and unhealthy, family allowances, studies and years of benefits. Mr Kutrumanis, the Papandreou - Papademos governments have kept them, and, Mr Brutsi, you are a witness, you have not affected them after the Samara - Venizelos government. You've been Minister of Labour all these years. I don't remember - if it's my memory, please tell me - that you have troubled them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u55	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u56	And the so-called friends of the people came, I see here representatives of Mara in the Chamber to defend the minimum wages that would raise them. Four years later they are not ashamed, and they come here and say so again, to be judged in words. In their works, however, they will be judged. And they tell us a lot and stuff. Look. You shared hay with a centre in Athens and you radiated to the region. Now that hay is not consumed easily, you are founding social hay shops and you believe that, based in the House, Maximos and your various things, you will go all over Greece and sell all these fairy tales. Nobody buys them. You will be judged in your actions and your actions are painful for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Loverdo, we're at nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u58	It's my last sentence, Mr. President. I don't know what you're going to do. Your people are talking about elections. Co-government and, above all, rulers are talking about elections. You know that. At any time, however, you will eat 'black'. That's your perspective. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. I very much urge the parliamentary representative from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Ilias Panagiotaros to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, before I begin, I wish the President of the New Democracy, who is present at the Bilderberg Club, where they are instructing the various pawns that place on the globe. He went to take instructions on how to continue bleeding of the Greek people. Today, we are called upon to discuss the proposal for a law of the Communist Party of Greece on collective agreements. It sounds like a poor quality joke to be saddened by the Communist Party of Greece - by the way, the richest political party in Greece and not just - and supposedly cut off to workers' rights. We have heard the previous MEPs from the JRC. We have heard Katsotis speak of an explosion in the new contracts, atomics, elastics, all those that dismantle the working normality that existed so far. We have heard one other partner say to the unscrupulous workers that they have to break their ties, as they have done - I will supplement - or the workers and partners have tried to do to '902', 'Typectococci', 'RIZOSPAST', to the capitalist operations of the Communist Party of Greece, without success, of course. Aren't you 'comrades' the first ones to apply, before everyone else, before the ink of the first memorial has even dried, the anti-government measures, as you say, of the first Memorandum in your business? I submit for the minutes the articles of the time by left-wing newspapers. "The Communist Party of Greece fired a worker in Rizzospasti with a Memorandum and half a compensation." [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another post denounces the Communist Party of Greece for liquidation and commemoration wages at the "RIZOSOPASTI". Says comrade Zilakos, who for 25 consecutive years was in the Communist Party of Greece as a member and as an employee, that "the aim is to replace the majority of journalists members or not of the Communist Party of Greece, who had an average salary of 1,400 euros with young people under 25, paid for by 426 euros a month". The most memorial was implemented before all of the Communist Party of Greece. They baptized the redundancies "personnel reductions" and all that the Communist Party of Greece has now implemented them first. There's a lot of other things I'm going to put down. ‘The financial information’, denounces the comrade ‘in the newspaper showing that the problem is not mainly economic, because ‘RIZOPASTIS’ had huge revenues from its sales, which does not justify the cessation of payments which reached 7 months’. There are many others that he says, such as "Risopasti" in the summer of 2010, 15% -40% reductions were made in the wages of those who are members of the Communist Party of Greece with the cloak of voluntary offer." I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will also present for the minutes the redundancies made in the 'Typeocidal' again with memorial measures, but also information on how the 'Typeocidal' was swamped, which was separated from 'RIZOPASTI', state money, in the form of subsidies, without hiring a half-worker. We are talking about huge sums, which have become ashes and bourber and not just. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We provide you with the minutes and the announcement of the dismissals of "902 ARITER IN FM", on September 6, 2011. The mates denounced the other companions that they applied memorial measures and fired them after each other and changed their contracts of employment. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also have one last post, which I put forward for the Minutes, which shows the new wave of redundancies in Risospasti. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are falsifying, dear "comrades", BSE and shipowners, industrialists, SETE and all those who drink the blood of the ordinary Greek worker or whatever you want to call them. In reality, however, you are being very enjoyable with them, where you are being found and where you stand. We testify for the Practical photograph of the social association you had on May 29 at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, following the invitation of Mrs Vardinoyannis, where the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Kouchoubas, was with all those who cursed and watched social events. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Meanwhile, after two days, he sold endless hay to the members of the Communist Party, that he went to pay tribute to Captain Yotis, raising the left fist and of course with a different dress. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All you want, comrades, is to dismantle what was going or going well and you don't want this society to make any progress at all. All the good things you say about labour, both you and the previous and the next, were mostly done by the national regime of 4 August 1936 to 1940, and from that time on they became infinitely little to nothing at all under the leadership of the national governor John Metaxas. Since then, nothing has happened at all. And those who are involved, those who have worked, those who have been implicated know - and it is certain - that the company needs the worker and the employee from the company. If there is no business, there will be no worker. There are many examples of companies that are 'living', which even go forward in time, because they very simply did not apply commemorative practices to their employees and present profits and have their seat in Greece and we can mention them. We can make some reports. We've done them before, and if necessary, we'll do it again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like your tolerance, Mr President. These businesses should be the boulevard for work and how both owners and owners and industrialists and workers, who are overly pleased with their payroll and bonuses and from what others do not have. On the other hand, we see the sad event with all these memoranda and flexibility at work. There are young people who work as nurses - I will give an example - with about EUR 490 for over eight hours in a very difficult profession and then, of course, will be wondering about clinics, private people and others, because they will not find staff, as more and more young people are fleeing abroad. The nurse who gets 490 euros here will go to England or to other countries of Europe and elsewhere and receive a first salary of 5,000 euros with many other advantages. Then you'll be looking to see why you can't get out of this vicious circle of entrepreneurship and industrial relations. In order to restore normalization in industrial relations, it is not the laws that are passed. In any case, you have voted for the memoranda and the memoranda define all the rest and you cannot escape a millimetre of them. If you do not denounce the Memorandumary Practices, the measures that deregulation work are not going to do anything at all. You must put before and above all the Greek worker and not equate him with any illegal alien who has come here and enjoys and receives many advantages, even more than the Greek. Therefore, protection of the Greek worker and of the Greek businesses. You must lay the same rules for everyone, because you see that in the context of globalisation there are multinationals who can and work with other rules as opposed to the small and medium-sized ones, the real pillars of an economy, those who employ one, two, three workers. And they usually don't fire them, but they keep them with fingernails and teeth, because they have a more personal relationship. You need to change this absurd tax and insurance tax-paying tax-payer at the expense of businesses, which is depriving them of cash, and sometimes some people are forced to apply the 'first time left' labour relations with the elastic forms of work and all these anti-working forms. If there is no solution to the bureaucratic issue, there will be no solution, no matter how much collective agreements you can do. And the best collective agreements to sign when an employer cannot pay, close or resort abroad. Not to professional workers, of the type of trade unions of GENOP - PPC, who were slapping money from the PPC, my heartfelt words about the law of the workers, but were on holiday at exotic destinations. Not to ministers, prime ministers and executives of governments or governors who have not even stuck half of their lives and have no idea of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u61	Dear colleague, we're at nine minutes. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u62	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. In order to do this, it takes a genuinely national regime, which is not you and the previous ones, and, unfortunately, they will not be the next one either. Shutting down... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u63	Please, Mr Colleague, take note of your words. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Left of PASOK has asked for a point of order. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u64	For twenty seconds I would like the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin with this brief word that I would like to say in the words that I personally as a professor of Public Law I have defended as much as I could the notion of the rule of law and the post of democracy that democracy is not avenged. And as a Member with Mr. Kouvelis in unsuspecting times we have taken relevant initiatives to take this flesh and bone. That's a start-up position. However, last night a barbaric attack took place at the offices of the Member of Parliament, our colleague, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. For about one or two minutes he didn't collide with the intruders in his office. He told me now that I took him for the support that there has been no one - Mr. Toscas, say - or a majority for a word of support. I urge you, Mr President, now to invite us from all sides of this House to condemn this barbaric act.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much. I think it's self-evident. With Mr. Varvichiotis, because I was at work this morning, I'll talk to him in a little bit. I promised him, because we were together last night at an event. I think we're all condemning the attack on his desk. I believe that all parties should do so and do so. It is an act of common sense and solidarity with a colleague. I think we should avoid all these events. I'm guessing they don't get support and support from anyone. You're right, Mr. Loverdo. I would ask that Mr Panayotarou's unfortunate expressions be deleted from the Minutes from the 'chouchesquezon' to the'red light'. I very much urge the next speaker, Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Lykoudi, to come to Stepma. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u66	It is incomprehensible and my support to Mr Varvitsiotis for the male attack he has taken. I think that all of us are absolute condemnation in any form of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical question of the Communist Party of Greece which we are debating today, the delay in the debate of which, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the House violates and obvious political intentions, enables us to exchange useful views among us. And I say that it has a political purpose, in my opinion, because for the government at this stage - which I think is bouncing all its institutions to play the net exit from the memorials, it is understood in August - it is perhaps the right time for the return to collective bargaining and the increase - perhaps - of the minimum wage. However, this debate is also timely and extremely useful, because this House is given the opportunity to discuss a number of issues, such as, for example, issues concerning private sector workers. And I think obviously the Communist Party of Greece is particularly interested in such a possibility as a result of its proposals. For example, we cannot ignore flexible forms of employment, such as part-time work, because with such forms of work, 30% of workers are currently employed. We are talking about six hundred or thirty thousand workers with an average gross wage of EUR 385, with a net salary of EUR 327, below and below the unemployment benefit. The most recent figures in January 2018 show that 53.25% of new recruitments relate to part-time jobs. Is such a working environment sustainable? If for workers this source of income is the only one, then we are really talking about a new category, about a new generation of poor workers. And I bring this as an example, because, although flexible forms of work may make it easier for many categories of people to have a relative income, on the other hand, but we also know, we understand it, we assume - but it is not just a case - that they are used mainly by small and medium-sized family enterprises - what else to do? - for cost reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible - obviously - for the labour market to be regulated in accordance with our wishes. She's got her own rules. We here, however, have a duty to strengthen the institutional framework for the protection of workers, to ensure with the interventions and arrangements that we strengthen entrepreneurship for investment - not, of course, parasitic and aerated, but those that contribute to the production of wealth - to raise the pie and then to discuss what part of it, for what purpose and to whom we must share with fair rules. Otherwise, any redistributive policy that is not based on an increase in wealth is simply doomed to equate continuously downwards, redistribute and sustain poverty and poverty, with dubious political benefit, since all of this has a limit, beyond which the reactions to the bleeding of those producing wealth may be uncontrolled. In this respect, the labour market regulates the level of wages, which should normally be in line with improvements in productivity and the competitiveness of the economy. Indeed, wages have been greatly reduced from 2009 to the present day. The Institute of Labour of GSEU in its 2018 report estimated that the actual value of private sector wages fell by 19.1% over the 2010-2018 period, while 38% of workers have wages below the minimum wage, at the level of EUR 585, at EUR 684 per month on the basis of the fourteen wages, while for workers under 25 the amount is EUR 511. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that what is usually absent from our discussions on employment matters is care for the unemployed. I think it is an important mistake, which the trade union leaders had also suffered in the past, taking more care of the close interests of the guilds or, in general, of the workers despite the interests of the unemployed. These interests are not necessarily at odds with the fact that today's workers may be unemployed tomorrow. Greece maintains the negative primaryities in Europe by recording unemployment higher than 20%, while it still has the highest rates of youth unemployment. This is a tragedy that promotes the most productive ages and the most educated and trained people to look for work in particular in other countries of Europe, in America and even in Australia. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that no one in this Chamber would object to strengthening the negotiating position of work against capital, which is what collective bargaining can contribute, as well as increasing the minimum wage. According to data from the Confederation of European Trade Unions, only 35% of workers are covered by collective agreements. There is no doubt that greater coverage will benefit workers and reduce dissatisfaction on the labour market. On the other hand, the procedure for setting the minimum wage by the government is a practice in twenty of the twenty-seven countries of Europe. It can also be done in the act of the Ministerial Council, since of course the real economic data are taken into account. By the same procedure it was reduced in 2012, with the same process it can increase, as obviously - I say again - a number of critical factors for the Greek economy are being taken into account. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, wage costs are certainly an important part of the general cost, but it is not the only one. It may not be the eternal victim of the operating costs of an undertaking, where no intervention is made for non-wage costs. Therefore, unless the right interventions are made at non-wage costs and if employment incentives are not provided for small and medium-sized enterprises, they will always resort to wage squeeze or to other forms of payments to avoid a great tax burden so that they do not collapse. I repeat: they will also resort to other forms of payments. As regards the latter, it is characteristic that some two hundred thousand workers currently receive 20% to 25% of their earnings in coupons, because the feedingstuffs are not taxed, but that is why various trading circuits are being created and the phenomenon is spreading. I do not have time, but it would be worth standing in the employment rights gap between private and public workers, just as an example of the situation. I am referring, for example, to the rights of pregnant women and young parents, and the existence of many speeds in the protection of maternity. The differences in the legislative framework are great. Ladies and gentlemen, none of the above measures, nor the collective bargaining nor the increase in minimum wages will create stable - I hope there will be - conditions of strengthening the workers' negotiating position, because employment is the key. In order to absorb unemployment, therefore, we need to create a hundred thousand jobs each year for the next five to seven years. In other words, there is a need for policies to increase the economy, for sustainable and sustainable growth. And, of course, investment-free growth is naturally incomprehensible and impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, investment policy in Greece today does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much to the Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and five teachers attending the 1st Karystos Evia Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the absence of the Parliamentary Representatives of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Georgiadis from the Centroon Association, we shall proceed to the second language of the Member from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Some Chrysayites at the port of Piraeus who have so far offered their services as strikers did not succeed this time because the workers did not allow it. They didn't allow the employers' gutters, the slaves, the knifebugs to block their struggle. I am saying that in relation to what the Chrysanthem criminal organization has said here. Madam Minister, you have said a great deal to convince that the non-acceptance of the proposal for a law of the five hundred thirteen workers' organisations which it has tabled to the JRC is for their own good. That's all you said. It is such a turn that you considered unconstitutional to what the workers had won and abolished it on the argument of the crisis you and all the previous ones. The questions you raised at the end of your speech, Minister, say them elsewhere. The JRC is endless and with unspeakable sacrifices in the path of its history with the working class and their rights. You're the one with capital, his profits and their development. You said that the overthrow of industrial relations began before the memoranda and that was a decision of the previous governments. This is half the truth, because all these measures were European Union decisions, which were and remains a crown for SYRIZA, and when, for example, the collective labour agreements were closed, the MEPs of the coalition then, Mr Papadimoulis, voted 'white'! Today, of course, you are promoting this eroding of collective agreements. That is why we say, gentlemen, that at this time you are the most useful political force for the bourgeoisie and the fulfillment of its needs. She did not expect you to be so capable and willing to carry out their desires either. Support, by the collective bodies of business groups, confirms your policy, which is more than useful, because it further shields their profitability and sovereignty. Your contribution to the greater exploitation of workers is great. Your position is intentional to create confusion, as we have said, but also to show that you are the least evil. But since that is what you usually say, I say that the best of 'do not hand' is always the hand. You, here, through the legislative framework that you have done, promote the worsening of the position of workers in all sectors. Things are clear. You said you wouldn't bring the minimum wage back to 751 euros. That's what you said through your position. In other words, you deny this demand of the working class. You said you would not abolish the minimum salary of EUR 511, the misery that took place in the previous period, separating workers from young and old. That's what you said today. No commitment to this. This, of course, will go ahead in the next few months. You said you would not restore the institutional framework of collective agreements. In fact, in terms of unconstitutionalism, what we are saying is that Law 1876/1990 should be reintroduced, you say no, it is unconstitutional. So Law 1876/1990 was unconstitutional? Unless you're referring to a motion for a law of the unions, they don't know how to make legal texts, as you say, but political. The troika's texts are very good, they are constitutional, they satisfy the needs of capital for greater increase in working time, for the abolition of fixed daily working hours, for flexible forms of employment, which you, of course, are increasingly expanding to all sectors, to all workers. What are you going to do, Minister? We asked you whether you would abolish the associations of persons. And you didn't say a word. It is the conquest of employers, the associations of individuals. They're their own tools. And you shield them to play the role of reducing the price of the labour force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Probationary period for workers, which is abolished, one year from two months. You keep it. And you have the hostage workers here. They are changed by employers over a year, without any obstacle to recruitment and dismissal. Tell me about it? Where have you blocked? What kind of counterincentive are there today in the workplace to prevent the worker from being made redundant, whether or not to apply what is left over? Absolutely nothing! One year the test period. The whole framework is the one that reduces, which effectively abolishes the allowances, and keeps it intact. Everything that the employers have won through the legal framework, which you and the previous ones have done is one prisoner and go for others. You are already moving on to the next phase, where through the institutional framework you are doing for collective agreements, the minimum wage will be determined again under the supervision of the institutions, the troika and the capital. They will decide how much it will be to ensure their profitability. Again, the collective agreements will be under the authority of whether the economy can withstand, whether the industry can withstand and so on. The needs of workers and their families are on second degree. These are the grass that produces wealth. And the ones who fruit him are the ones you support, the big ones. We therefore believe that it will be the workers who will impose and the collective agreements, which will impose the overthrow of this policy, which, if you wish, will also send you where they will send others who are standing in the way of this course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. Since there has been use of the seconds by the honourable Members, the floor has been given for 10 minutes by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Ilioopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a few comments, on the basis of the debate that has taken place so far. Observation number one. I think that phrases such as'shock in the eyes', 'we use the workers','san' and the others are deeply problematic and more characterize them than the one they are addressed to. They're deeply problematic because they actually imply that people have limited perceptive ability, that they don't understand what's going on, that he's probably stupid, that he's in trouble and so on. I don't know, anyone can judge his side. As far as we are concerned, in any case, we do not think the world does not understand what is happening. We think people understand very well what is going on. The people are very well judged by what is happening, which is why each of the political forces is where they are today. We, when we fight, say very frankly what we have won, what we have lost and what we have in the next battle. That was the first point. Observation second: I am very surprised by the representative of the New Democracy to refer to unemployment. I just want to make one report. When unemployment in the country reached 27% in May 2013, the Ministry of Labour then had made an amazing announcement - and I stress the word "wonderful" - that said "we managed to reduce the rate of increase in unemployment". I say this again, if anyone was confused: 'We have managed to reduce the rate of increase in unemployment'. I really would like to meet the man who wrote this announcement. If I had half the confidence that the author of this announcement had in my life, it would have been very easy to do too much in my life. Secondly, for the representatives of the New Democracy, as Mr Tsakalots would say, 'Bucket observation'. It is good when we read the evidence, not to jump pages and the representatives of the New Democracy usually when they read the evidence, they jump the pages. The figures of "ERGANI" show that in the 2014 annual issue compared to 2017 we have two hundred and ninety-three thousand new jobs and of them nearly 69% are full and not part-time. The third part, which is surprising again, in relation to the New Democracy, is when its representatives have the courage to talk about undeclared work. First of all, they used the phrase 'we received undeclared work at 40% and took it to 12%. Again they tend to forget the last page of this specific exhibition of the “ARTEMIS” system, the page that has the annual data, where in the annual figures the undeclared work in the high-infringability sectors was at 30%, in 2014, when they handed over, it was at 19.2% and today it is at 12%. There is little hypocrisy here: I think the correct phrase that the representatives of the New Democracy should use is that 'we managed to get the undeclared work to 30%' and not'receive' because, as the European Court of Auditors quite rightly says, it was the one that launched the undeclared work where it was. Also, they cannot speak of undeclared work by people who have abolished two hundred and nine organic posts in the Labour Inspectorate and, among other things, have made world originality abolish very critical sections, such as the Legal Support Department. There is no other control mechanism across Europe, which does not have legal support. And last sentence for this, to get into some rather more critical issues: The party the Vice-President of which had described the murderous attack on land workers in Manola as'shooting in the air that some took the scaffolding', I think it takes a lot of nerve to talk about labour rights. I'm continuing in the following direction. I think that today's debate gives us a very good opportunity for too many reasons. First of all, because we can talk about two different plans for the crisis and two different concepts of work. The first project was what he said that to get out of the crisis we need to elasticise the work, we need to build an advantage over cheap and flexible work, that the workers were living above their capacity, that we are to blame for one million civil servants, who are afflicting the rest of the country's ten million. In fact, the number of civil servants was a magical figure. He played in one million, one and a half million, until they finally counted, and it was half. On the other hand, there is also the other plan for the crisis and therefore for work, which said that in the crisis we did not enter because the workers were living above their capacity. The factor that gave rise to the crisis was the same inequality that produces the way of production, it was the inequalities that led to this outbreak of the crisis, which further exacerbated the inequalities. In this sense, there is a very specific political conflict. The political forces, who are trying to downgrade the issue of inequalities, which, in our opinion, is the main separatist line for political plans today and are trying to build a separating line on the plan of 'plasticism and anti-populistism' - who are the populists and who are the anti-populists - what they have consciously and diligently been doing in recent years, are simply washing out the far-right, neo-nazis and fascists across Europe and in this country. Those who are constantly talking about populism and populism and can easily denounce paints and tricks, but they never find a word to say when right-wing and fascists are attacking trade unions, unions, representatives, democratic struggles, in reality they rinse out neonazis, because they believe that for some reason it fits into their political plan. The second part - and it has already been said before the Minister - is that the previous governments have believed deeply in the changes that took place at work. They believed deep, no one imposed them, no one imposed them. The crisis has been an opportunity for them to do so. It appeared and seems clear from all the positions of the Chief of Officerial Response, as he quite clearly said "the threefold, expansion of sectoral contracts, principle of more favourable regulation and unilateral recourse to arbitration, is a threefold, which has done a bad thing to the economy and when the New Democracy comes to the government will not go ahead, because that is the plan of the Government of SYRIZA". It is this phrase that we have heard from the representatives of BSE that we have heard from a series of media representatives who have given a very hard fight not to back the International Monetary Fund, and at the moment it is very sad that the International Monetary Fund has backed up, which Europeans have, as they say - within introductory words - 'thank you' to the government that is currently in existence in Greece and restores collective labour agreements. At some point there must be some data in the discussion. The reintroduction of collective bargaining is not an election plan, it is not an election speech. It's a dignified law from the Greek Parliament. The principle of more favourable regulation also resurfaces the expansion of sectoral agreements, precisely in the way they were and before they were abolished. This is a very great victory for the world of work, for the world of work in the country, and just the restoration of these two principles, in practice it cancels the associations of people who were one of the powerful tools of the employer, as has rightly been said in this debate. So we continue to do what we have already done and not generally and abstractly what we would like to do. Secondly, we have already done an upgrade of the Labour Inspectorate and that cannot be underestimated. It cannot be underestimated that there are places where in previous years there have been immunity from the Labour Inspectorate, such as the large systemic banks and in these areas only in the last two and a half years, nearly 3 million fines, which go to social security, have been in place because we are actually talking about resources stolen from social security. One cannot question the fact that we are already going beyond fines on closures, which systematically violate labour legislation. One cannot question that there are a number of enterprises in the care, cleaning and other contractors excluded from public procurement, precisely because the framework has been tightened up and does not allow employers, who do not respect labour law, to have access to public money in whatever form. It is for this reason - and the Minister has always stressed this - that we are not simply talking about restoring collective agreements, because we know very well that for a whole number of people the word'return' does not tell them anything, because before the crisis there were blind points in labour issues. These issues of work are currently being regulated, such as the regulation of contractors in the bill coming from the Ministry of Labour. There is a basic question, whether or not we think they can change things. Our reactionary thinking tells us that any attempt to change the social situation, in reality it leads to totalitarianism, leads to interventions that cannot be lifted by market forces, civil society, etc. Unfortunately, with this reactionary thought many times it comes and buttons a - in introductory - 'concept' which underestimates small but critical changes, a concept which it thinks will either change or change anything. We say so clearly. It is in the interests of workers to be clear what has been voted on and what returns. It is in the interests of the workers that the inspection is being upgraded and that, for the first time, eighteen years later, the Health and Safety Inspectorate will be recruited and it is the government that will be recruited. It is in the interests of workers to know that there is a Ministry of Labour and a government, which is trying to move on with these demands, to fight. He doesn't always win those battles. No collective struggle always wins, no union wins, no movement form wins, but these battles are given and we will continue to give them. Last sentence: in my opinion democracy, first of all, means choices and if there was a major blow to the crisis and democracy itself, it seemed that for the majority of citizens there were no choices at the end of the day. Whatever their political choice, they have reached a common political project. In this sense, it is very important that today, with this government, the battle of choices is won again, because you have two distinct political plans. You have a political plan that says 'protection of labour and reintroduction of collective agreements' and a political plan that says 'no to collective agreements'. You have a political plan that says "protection of the public sector, not privatisation, protection of public services and recruitment one by one" and a political plan that says "outsourcing, privatisation and five to one in recruitment". You have a political plan that says "protection of social rights, front with the extreme right, front with the neonazis, protection of democracy" and a plan that generally and indefinitely hides everything behind the curtain of populism and at the same time gives forgiveness and washes out the extreme right. Our work is these options the next time they become more and deepen even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much to the Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u72	Lords of government, you are giving daily examinations that you are capable of managing the country's things for the benefit of big capital, and this is what you are doing today. You are talking about the 'clean exit from the memorandum' case, but for the workers it means abolishing all the anti-territorial laws and you are not talking about it. On the other hand, in the context of the fourth assessment, you are preparing new anti-dumping measures. With great courage you have scoffed and not even referred to the JRC's proposal for a law contained in the question, saying that it is general, that it is a political text, that it has unconstitutional positions and that your own measures for collective agreements are the ones that will apply to expansion and more favourable regulation. Indeed, with Article 1 of the JRC's proposal for a law of association and federations that says that collective agreements of all categories bind all workers and all employers, whether they are members or not of trade unions, do you agree or disagree? You say 'although it's 50%'. You're making terms and conditions. So, it's unconstitutional? So that's what you're saying? Secondly, do you agree with Article 5 of the JRC's proposal that the more favourable rules apply to the worker, whether or not you agree? What is said in Article 3 is that if the collective agreement arrangements for workers are more favourable, even prevail even the laws, do you agree or are unconstitutional? You don't say a word about the meteorology. About the fact that until the new contract is signed, is it the oldest one, you say something or is that unconstitutional too? For Article 8, which says that all the collective agreements in force until 29-2-2012, do you say something? Is it unconstitutional? Why don't you do it? It's a simple layout. There wouldn't be anything. Do you say anything about reintroducing the salary to 751 euros, which Article 9 of the JRC's proposal for a law? You're saying something about the abolition of the separation between the old and the new workers? Nothing at all. Keep the whole arsenal. I am not talking about the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, the thirteenth and fourteenth wages. So here is the reason why you have scoffed at the JRC's proposal, precisely because you are adopting - but you have also done your property, it is now your property - all the anti-grassroots measures that have been voted on by previous governments and by your own government, in other words, creating a mechanism by which a very cheap labour force will be reproduced, without constituted labour and insurance rights. As a result of this mechanism, the vast majority of the new employment contracts are temporary, flexible, with the reduction of the average salary in 2017 by 2.7%. It is this mechanism that reproduces these measures which serve the needs of business groups and capital. So, despite the effort made by Mrs Ahtsoglou and the Deputy Minister of Labour to appear to be something different from the New Democracy and the PASOK, they show us that she is on the same side, on the same bank. They say them more raw, just you are more able to apply them with greater bareness than New Democracy and the PASOK. That's your difference. Speaking in the name of the workers, you are taking action against the working class, such as the question of limiting the right to strike. What were you talking about? That this will strengthen the participation and representativeness of the labour unions. Without any shame, you were claiming this to put new obstacles to the right of workers to the strike while at the same time maintaining the tool that employers have, the associations of workers, the associations of persons. Well, that's why we say you're on the same side, at the same time, and that's what it looks like. I read to you before what the strategic development plan said, that the wages of workers and the redefinition of the lower wage must take into account the strengths of the economy. Who determines these tolerances? The capitalists define them, the business groups determine them. The wages and interests and the rights of the working class in the name of competitiveness are therefore subjected. Is New Democracy saying anything different? You write it, not just you say it. You're writing it in your plan. From this point of view, go one step further, when you say that wages must take into account the level of unemployment. Make a social automation between the level of employees' wages and the unemployed, telling the others: "Look to see, it is your job to blame those who have high wages. So fight with the employer." That is what you tell them, turning them into a backup army in the hands of employers to make workers' rights even more compressed. This is the lousy tactic you're getting used to. You are also writing it in the text which is yours and which has not, as you say, been imposed upon you by the institutions. From this point of view you are on the same side. You are on the side where, in the name of the shield of competitiveness and profitability of business groups, of the choices made by the European Union, you are sacrificing the needs of workers and their rights. The other side is exactly when the needs of the workers are placed in the position of capitalist profit, when at the heart of the way the economy and society are organized, it will not be competitiveness and capitalist profitability, but it will be the needs of the workers. Only then can workers really live on the basis of the possibilities available, based on the level of development of labour productivity and the level of development of science and technology, making use of all the productive potential of each place and region. The rest of the time simply will be nothing more than a profit-making mechanism for the capitalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Madam Minister, would you like the floor to close the meeting? How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u74	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u75	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u76	I will also comment on a few things that have been said in the debate. I have heard Mr Brutsi's position, and I think I have to answer some of his points, if anything. The position of Mr Brutsi, like others in the New Democracy, is characterized by a specific determiningism. In other words, he implys and seems to accept it that things may have been very bad when his party was in government, but they would have evolved much better in the future if SYRIZA did not come to the government. It suggests that we may have launched unemployment - the New Democracy - at 28%, but if SYRIZA had not come to the government today, unemployment would have been below 17%. We may have taken the program off course, as the institutions said at the time, but if it were us we would have already completed the budget adjustment programme earlier than August 2018. We may have plunged the country into an uninterrupted recession and led to a fall in GDP by a quarter, but if SYRIZA had not come to the government, at the moment we would have more growth than the country has achieved in the past year. We may have agreed on much higher primary surpluses for the country, but if SYRIZA hadn't intervened in the government, these primary surpluses we would have already lowered in some way. We may never have been able to achieve the budgetary targets that we agreed on, but if SYRIZA hadn't come to the government, the programme would have been finished quite sooner. Well, I think this type of analysis gives rise to common intelligence, and if anything else anyone who wants to hear, has ears and listens to these incredible thoughts that give rise to the limits of good reasoning. The second issue that characterised the analyses by Mr Brutsis and the New Democracy, concerns the very reality and does not concern cases that would have taken place if SYRIZA had not intervened. I can very often hear Mr Brutsi giving up this government on social security and the pension system. And it really gives me a terrible impression about this challenge. A government that handed over the insurance funds with a debt of 1,1 billion deficit, after eleven successive pension cuts, following pension cuts totalling 45 billion, with cuts of 20% -50% and with four hundred thousand unpaid pension benefits in our drawers, thinks it can move the finger to a government that tries to put rules in the system. He pays due. We have made the insurance funds surplus with 85% of the free traders paying less than they paid before the new insurance system. If anything, I'd recommend an elementary restraint. The second is that we hear him criticise unemployment. Mr Eliopoulos said it was about the unemployment rates that Mr Brutsi delivered when he left the Ministry of Labour. The third is that he's criticizing undeclared work. Having devastated the Labour Inspectorate, having abolished two hundred organic posts in a control mechanism that primarily wants people to work, never having imposed a high fine for the pile of infringements that occurs in the very large companies, giving a very specific immunity to the very large businesses, he considers that he can move the finger to undeclared work and read the evidence at hand. What I would recommend, apart from restraint, would be to listen a little more carefully to the positions of the President of his party, who for work is extremely clear. I want to close by saying two words about what I heard from the JRC. I said that I understand the political feasibility of the document tabled, which is not a proposal for a law. I do not want to enter the legal debate because it is not a proposal for a law. You're causing me, but what am I supposed to say now? You say that any collective agreement is signed by any employer and any employee representative, it will generally become compulsory. What representativeness respects this principle described in Article 3 of your law, if I'm not mistaken? You ask me and I answer you and you don't want to hear what I'm answering. We have already legislated to restore the expansion of sectoral collective agreements, i.e. when they cover 50% of the workers in the sector, because they are considered to be the most representative, to extend to the whole sector and the principle of more favourable regulation. And you ask me what arrangement will prevail when more collective agreements are drawn. But I'm answering. The most favourable. We have already legislated and will be back in August. I do not think there is a debate between the question and the answer to this debate. The third point is when you say about uniform collective agreements that when they contain more favourable conditions, they should prevail. I tell you that the labour movement, the trade unions themselves have renounced the uniform collective agreements. They consider them to be factors of extremism. We disagree politically. You're asking me what we're gonna do. I'm answering what we're going to do. The uniform collective agreements will not prevail. Obviously we are not this reading and I do not think that the trade unions are also in favour of this reading. We have legislated that the two main pillars will reset. You blame the government for telling her development plan how she will make the minimum wage increase by law. Aren't you, by law, planning to raise the minimum wage to 751 euros? What do you anticipate of her? With a general collective agreement? I'm on it again. I understand the feasibility of the text, I have answered the things that we have already legislated and already regulated. I have said at least 20 legislation which we have been doing over the past year, which is in favour of protecting workers and strengthening their negotiating power and of which you do not want to hear by saying that I am talking about the future, while all my speech was absolutely a development of what we have already done. So our great difference is that we have taken responsibility for this project to implement it. I have also made it very clear many times that we are operating in a budget adjustment programme and we have continuous negotiations and we have defeats. I think I have said many times that we also have defeats in this effort, because people who sit on the other side of the table are taking another view of the work, the one that Mr Mitsotakis and the BSE report incorporates, and I have developed it in my initial speech - and we have no problem accepting both our victories and our defeats. But our great difference is that for us and in this system of victories there are for workers and there is a value of these victories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much to the Minister. The debate on No 26/17/24-5-2018 is closed on a topical and urgent question concerning collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-08-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of the House at no time of 14.01, the sitting for the next Monday, June 11, 2018, at 17.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
