ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy birthday to everyone, since it's the first meeting after Easter. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 2-4-2018, the minutes of its meeting of Monday, 2 April 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions’, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent questions debate, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 11 April 2018, a criminal case for the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Charalambos Athanasios and former Minister of Health Mr Mavroudi Voridis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: Today, five topical questions will be discussed. Three of them concern the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakaloto. First we will discuss the seventh with the Minister of Finance, number 1398/26-2018, the topical question of the second question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, on the subject: 'Absence of the positions of Heads of the ILO'. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, however, to express my grief at the unjust loss of a new man, Colonel Baltadouros, who was the last hero, the last victim of this undeclared war that has broken out in the Aegean. This is a man who left two children behind. Hopefully he will be the last hero who will fall in defending our borders, our principles, our values, defending our country. But in order to be able to have strong armed forces, Mr President and Minister, we must also have a strong economic state, not only to have strong armed forces, as I said at the outset, but also to have the rules of law that should govern society. One way, of course, to strengthen our economy is to combat tax evasion, to combat black money, to combat smuggling. So my question was how you chose on 4 December to make the positions of the new heads of government and of the new directors of the ILO on 4 December. I tabled a question which you did not answer to me, Mr Minister, to see on what criteria, which conditions, with which assessments, the position of the new directors and the new heads of staff and why the circular of your Minister, Mrs Gerovali, did not apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor to answer. He'll answer you seated because he has a health issue, a problem with his leg. So you'll forgive him for answering you sat down. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The provisions of Article 18 of Law 4492/2017 lay down the procedure for the transitional placements to be carried over to the new organisational structures. These provisions placed the heads of the IORP's organic units. This article is a genuine transitional provision, contrary to previous selection systems based on the principle of no more permanent than the provisional one. We intend to apply the law in substantial selection procedures for positions of responsibility contrary to the old system, where only transitional provisions were applied for a decade and there has never been a substantial evaluation. In particular, the mandate of the Heads of State or Government in 2014 expired in December 2015. After the end of their term of office, the heads continued to carry out their duties in substance. However, given that their term of office has already expired, there was no obligation to reinstate them in accordance with the transitional provisions of Law 4492. Evidently the officials who have been posted in transition as Heads of the IAEA meet the conditions of both Article 84 of the Staff Code and the Agency of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister, and for the economy in time. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u7	I am troubled by your very brief reply, Minister. And why am I saying that? The officials of the ILO came and addressed not only to me, but also to other fellow Members, I suppose, for the entire procedure that has been followed. Here is your decision, which I would like to table in the Minutes, and here is the announcement of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Officials, which I also present. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know what, Minister? While you have been a champion in tax enforcement, unfortunately this government is being presented as a urging force in dealing with black money and fighting, if you like, the opaque economic procedures. I will not dwell on the statements you made, when you took over the government in 2015, that within six months you will be able to find 3 billion euros of black money. I will not dwell on your pompous reasons and on the Lagard list and the Borgians list, where their results are poor. I will stand by the twenty-five thousand cases which, unfortunately, have been at risk of limitation after the end of the five-year period, as decided by the Council of State, have not been transferred from the ILO to the ILO. This is money which could be attributed to the public corvana and could also lead to a tax on Greek society, which is really intimate with the imposition of all these taxes. I asked you to tell me what criteria, because it really makes me very impressed and I want to talk with examples about the positions you are making. And because I will not have the right to reply after the answer you give me, I would like you to give me specific answers. You placed a master of technical services a graduate of the School of Merchants. You also placed department heads with second degrees and placed assistant directors with very few years of service, at the same time that they illegally excluded servicers with excellent service records, without disciplinary defects, university graduates, with additional qualifications and molecules. You have placed Head of Department of Agricultural Engines School. I really am very surprised at what criteria and how all of them can stand up to the professional height, which all of them who take on such a responsibility in the fight against tax evasion and black money must have. You know what, Minister? We're all judging. We are also judged and judged in the past and for whatever mistakes we have made. And you will be judged. It is really a great sin, but it is really unfair in a society that is sighing, young people who leave and emigrate abroad for a better destiny, the freelance professional and the young man who is trying to open up a business and unfortunately cannot respond, with all this overtaxation, to not being able to find a point. The rule of law, as I have told you, is to be able to find all those who are taxing, all those who, in the bad practice they practice, make all of us pay for their fraud, theirfts. And instead of the money that had to be paid by those responsible in the public corps, they unfortunately can get away from it and those who pay it unfairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Katsafandos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr Colleague, I am surprised that you raise this issue as you put it. I welcome you to the fight against tax evasion. However, I would remind you that for the ten years before the crisis Greece had six percentage points less tax than the European Union had. Where did that come from? Didn't it come from tax evasion? Are you saying that in ten years before the crisis your party or PASOK fought every day for tax evasion? We had a legitimate tax evasion. So you fixed your social power block, closing your eye on people that you don't have to pay. And you're coming now and you're telling me we're not interested in tax evasion? From the beginning of 2017 to February 2018, the ILO, which we are talking about, has done more than eight hundred audits, has noted over seven and a half thousand interventions and has expected revenues of 170 million. I will not say all the other things we have done, and that is why we have exceeded the surplus. However, if I am surprised about tax evasion once, I am surprised at the public administration five times. Because not only are they temporary and meet all the criteria of the law, but the new ones that will come will come with completely new systems, with open procedures. Already the general secretaries are out, the directors will be out, and then the directors will be down. It is a completely different administration, with completely different rules, with great transparency. Is that what Mr. Mitsotakis did before he left the Ministry? Do you remember what happened just before Mr. Mitsotakis left his ministry, who changed them all on his own command? Can we compare? Mr Colleague, we must be completely honest with us so that this country can move forward. To be blamed by the New Democracy, as I wrote in my interview with "THEVEN OF THE STATES", that we are building a client state is like Lucky Luciano accusing us of lack of honesty! There is no comparison with this government and the governments of PASOK and of New Democracy, either with tax evasion or with how we build public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question under number 1479/11-4-2018 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'House problems of the Special School of Lamia', will not be debated because of the impediment of the honourable Member. The third, with number 1463/2-4-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with the "haircut" of the debt in 2012, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliaraki due to a workload. Also, the tenth question under number 1369/20-3-2018, the second question of the Athens MP, Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Sigi fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Organisation (PESH) with the investment bank Rothschild", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliaraki, due to a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u13	This parliamentary term has been established by the Bureau - and rightly so - where the Member considers that the attitude of a non-confidential minister is to give him the right for two minutes to develop the content of his current question. I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u14	You can move on. In any case, I have read your own question that will not be answered. So, under the Rules of Procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u15	It is a good practice for the Bureau, because in the previous parliamentary term we were fighting to take the floor for thirty seconds. It is a very good practice for the Bureau, and thank you. Listen, Mr. President. This is the tenth time I have tabled this question in a timely form and I can follow it, because my experience imposes this on the ministers' views or arguments that they cannot come to Parliament. I understand that if you're abroad, how are you coming? I understand that if you have a cabinet, how are you coming? I understand that if there's a very important meeting that can't be postponed or can't be moved ten minutes later, how will you come? However, I do not understand, Mr President, when we have accepted all the explanations so many times, kindly replying that, once again, there is a refusal because of a workload. No, Mr. President. Parliamentary control is a form of political action in which ministers are required to come under the Rules of Procedure of the House. It's not their right. It is not 'if I want'. It is not 'necessary' to the problems. And I do not follow any practices of older colleagues, who, if not the normal minister, did not accept an answer from either a Deputy or a State Secretary. I have not shown such kinds of arrogant behavior. Whoever's here is to come in, just as long as he has something to say. And here I am not asking a question - for the small confessors who lost their money - to fight against. For I remember that I was a member of that government, who necessarily went through this measure. But we had said then that we would not forget. And many times after 2012, in the new Parliament, I invited the ministers to tell their opinion if they share a problem and if we can find a solution. I have proposed, for example, that there should be an exception for these people as regards the contribution of solidarity, for those of them who are obliged to pay a solidarity contribution. There to weigh, weight on the basis of the country's general interests. I mean, I'm making suggestions that could catch a place, not proposals that I can make smart and put the Minister in a difficult position. However, although this is also made out in the text of my question, the Minister responsible does not come. Is that a matter of arrogance? This is a matter of another cause, for example. indifference or someone else that I can't put on my mind or put them on, but I don't want to accept them? I conclude, Mr President, that in the end, yes, it is all this together, because it is not otherwise explained how for so long the leadership of this ministry has been so despised by the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I think that if the Minister is here, and he has heard your word, he is recording them. I don't know if he'd like to give an answer. However, I think that the Minister will take this into account in re-subsidy. We continue with the eighth question under number 1400/26-2018, the second-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Transport equivalent and the exception of Karpathos". Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes. As you know, the Minister won't get up. If you'd like, you'd better get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u17	The Rules of Procedure say about the Minister and the Members, and we have made a decision in the Bureau when I was chairing, that, when the Minister wants to stay out, he is not obliged to rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u18	The Minister won't get up. I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u19	I don't do it because of health. Deal. Then I'll stand up to show good conduct. But that's not why I'm doing it. I'm doing this for another reason. Because I think I want us to have a more relaxed conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u20	As you feel. But because it's because of health...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u21	...because I think it's a matter of general interest and not of local interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u22	Clearly. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u23	And the reason is the metaphor. The transport equivalent is a fair measure that islanders have been trying for years to claim and claim. Amazing Aliferis, the Mayor of Tilos, had played a leading role at this level of the European Union and at study level and concluded that it was difficult to implement in practice. That's the story. However, transport equivalent was made on the territory of a reduced VAT base, and it was an addition to reduced VAT and not the transport equivalent, which has difficulties, at least as far as I know, in these studies is concerned, to be applied in practice in relation to now that there is no VAT. In other words, there is no reduced VAT, and there is a night's stay. The second point, which is raised, is that VAT is essentially not only for residents, it is also for hotel life and competitiveness on the opposite side, which is a few miles away and gives much better prices. VAYSSADE (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Now that the law isn't in place yet, it's good to take it into account. The Karpathians rose up mainly, but also the other islands and said that if two instalments were made, that is now for half the islands and in January for the rest, they would think that elections would be held and therefore in January they would not be financed in any way. Consequently, the request of the inhabitants, mayors, etc. It is to start the implementation of the single transport equivalent for all the islands. That's the one thing. The other issue - and we have discussed it in private - which I would like to raise, Minister, is the general issue. I believe - and I have told you - that we need tax policy to implement what they say in more general policy, namely'stuffs and carrots'. In other words, the tax measures that have been introduced by states such as the United States of America must be fully implemented. It must be essentially and a campaign must be held via television so that the Greek citizen does not believe that he is going to be happy and paying for it to another state, but that he pays for better services and better pensions. Furthermore, the previous decision of the Council of State, which has not been cleansed, but pre-indicates it, will bring to the ECA anomaly, because indeed the ECA is a tax system, is not an insurance net, because the insured are paying on the basis of their income rather than on the basis of their insurance needs and reciprocity. Therefore, I believe that all the issues need to be looked at as a whole, so that tax relief can go ahead too. How will tax reductions become if there is tax evasion? It seems to me - and we have discussed it - that the golphs say that 40% of Greeks express the desire to avoid taxing if they can. I - charming somehow - say that 60% seems to be evading and not answering, and 40% is what it pays and that is why it answers! It doesn't matter, of course. The fact is that tax reform must be carried out in this spirit, so that taxes can also fall. It is impossible to reduce taxes if we do not apply a system which is strict in tax evasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u25	Three questions have actually been raised. The first is for the equivalent transport and how it works. The second is if we're wronging the Karpath. The third concerns general tax matters. In general tax matters, I'm going to focus on my dentistry. Regardless of the level of taxes - I shall refer to my dentistry - we do not think that reduced VAT is a targeted measure, regardless of whether it is. We, in other words, see the equivalent not only as a replacement for it, we see it as a good measure in itself. We think it is a good system that says: How much does a truck get from Volos to Athens? What island is the equivalent of Piraeus in the same kilometres? It must not be the man who sells agricultural products on this island who has a higher cost than anyone who brings them from Volos to Athens. We consider this very important for the real economy of the islands, as we feel that citizens should not have a higher cost to come to the center or if it is a small island and want to go to a large island that has a hospital - a subject that you are interested in - and need to make four, five trips, not to have a great deal of burden and also to have some benefits if they want to come to Athens. So we see and have slowly implemented a view, which we have in general on island policy, on a policy for the islands that has benefits, on support for the municipalities, but also on this transport equivalent that I think is also a development and regional instrument. In other words, he has these two, and we think he can help the islands very much. I don't know why you think we're wronging Carpath. We don't have a target like that. The government's intention is to introduce as many islands as possible in the first and pilot run. The relevant Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Santorinios, has said that all the scenarios are under consideration and the pilot implementation of the measure will include over thirty islands. In particular, Karpathos has not been excluded from the application of the transport equivalent, like the entire island country, and it is very likely that the island will also be included in the pilot implementation of the measure. So I don't think there's a particular problem with the island. I think that the equivalent - whatever our views on reduced VAT, that is, how functional it is or not - is a very good measure and must be supported by the whole House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u27	I told you that I wish it for Karpathos too, because Karpathos has been somewhat differentiated in terms of VAT. In other words, Carpathos and Rhodes since December have still ceased to have this distinction, while the rest of the islands keep it until June. So people are rightly complaining, because he tells you "Again, you do the same," in a way. In my opinion, it's a fair request. However, as far as VAT is concerned, we have already said so with your colleagues - they have now sent me the reply from Mr Moscovisi, who is the Commissioner and said that we need to remind you - an article on this subject, etc. - that we still allow Greece to apply rates of up to 30% lower than the corresponding rates applied in mainland Greece in specific geographical compartments and islands. And it goes on, saying that there are no plans to amend the territorial scope of the VAT Directive. It also says that although the Committee monitors tax policy in the context of the stability support programme for Greece, the European Stability Mechanism (EMSM), the responsibility for tax policy and value added tax choices lies with the Greek authorities. Finally, it stresses that by recognising the particular challenges facing the islands as a result of immigration, the European institutions are willing to discuss proposals from the Greek authorities as regards the best way of supporting the affected communities, provided that these proposals are in line with the best practices applied in other regions of Europe and that they take into account the financial margins available. So this 'financial margin', as I understand it, is the problem that exists. On the other hand, however, it leaves the door open for pressure, and I think the government - the opposition cannot do so - to press creditors, to tell them as you wish and to tell them that it is a matter of vital importance for our hotels and tourist infrastructures in some way, on the other hand, which is necessarily competitive. So it's a matter of vital importance. Since the European Union is leaving the door open, I have the impression that we need to come closer to this issue. I now come back to what is my general problem. If, instead of closing the store for two days to someone who is systematically evading, you tell him that you're closing it for the whole period, I'm sure no one will evade the tax, because no one will say I'm going to close my store and lose the tourist season. But if you tell him that for two days he closes his work, as soon as he opens it, he'll fill out the mess he'll have, since he'll practically continue to avoid tax. I therefore want this issue to be considered, because I think it is vital for more general development policy. Mr President, I give you the above-mentioned document for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u29	For Commissioner Pierre Moscovisi, I would like to say that in his reply, he actually says what the regime is. He's not going to deal with the negotiation. The institutions did not deny that there is a possibility of reduced VAT to have an island policy. They said if you have a lot of rates, that's one way to get away from it. We have been pushed too hard - and that is why it has been done - to have fewer rates so that no one can escape. In fact, I have never been convinced by this argument of the institutions. I am not at all sure that the key to reducing tax evasion in the islands, but also in other places, is having just a few factors, but that is another issue that opens up the debate that you actually care about. Unfortunately, there is no timely question of discussing tax policy, especially what you are interested in, tax evasion, so I will say just a few issues. You have no wrong in the direction you are going, namely at the end of the day you say something that I agree, that, in order to solve the problem slowly, every self-employed person, every trader, every professional, every businessman, every undertaking may have little chance of finding, controlling, but knowing that the consequences will be very serious when it is found. That's how it works, as you said in your suggestion, IRS. However, in order to get there, a lot of things must be changed. I have also made self-criticism - and the New Democracy colleague also mentioned it in his question - that we were over-optimistic about how quickly you can deal with the issue. I'm honest with that. It's a complicated matter. We have taken several steps, we have many other issues, but at the end of the day I do not believe there will be a solution. Although I agree with your logic of punishment and how this has to work, I think that tax evasion needs too many measures and a complex and complex approach. If there is one of the governments - and from our own - and from the future governments this will, I think it will solve a very large systemic, structural problem in the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u30	We thank the Minister for his reply. Before we move to the last question concerning Mr Tsakaloto, I shall read out some of the hindrances. The fourth question under number 1434/28-3-2018 is the second time question of the Member of the Thessaloniki Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?"; it will not be discussed because the Minister has already answered one written and two topical questions. The second, number 1481/11-4-2018, top-stage question of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on "SOS emit the cancer patients of Drama" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, because he will be at the Regional Development Conference in Rhodes. The fifth under No. 1402/27-2018 topical question by the Hume MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital”, will not be discussed for the same reason. We continue with the last question about Mr. Tsakalotos, the ninth with number 1401/26-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Sufficient developments regarding the sale of EUCI “The National””. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. My question today was tabled six months ago. Unfortunately, Mr. Chakalotos for six months, on all Mondays he couldn't find a Monday to come here. Nevertheless, today when he came, the government's favourite - which the US Embassy fought, too, is the truth - Mr Callamos was unable to get the "National Insurance" because he did not have the money, even though in Capital Link Forum Mr. Tsakalots - I will testify the video - he assured investors and journalists that they had the money. Unfortunately, neither pasture nor ranch nor any of them. What is going to happen with "National Insurance" is an issue that, unfortunately, the government cannot and does not care to hear us. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above video, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] But there is, Mr President, a much more serious issue. After six months of apprehension of Parliament, today I do not know how to react in front of Mr Tsakaloto. Today I have heard Mr Voutsi call on Mr Fokas, your Member, for what is known as 'hot and burn'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u32	He's not our MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u33	I know. I know. I said, Mr President, to your Member, Mr Fokas, who said "burn and burn." Of course, we must all condemn it. Of course, the first teachers are here. Mr. Chakalotos was in the Constitution. Although Mr Chakalotos was not smiling it, the majority of SYRIZA officials sang it. He'll remember his pictures along with Mr. Varoufakis and a lot of other executives who said back then and what they said. Unfortunately, the House is being deceived. I do not know how to react, Mr President. What can I say to Mr. Tsakalotos after six months of depreciation? Because he likes examples, I want to remind him of two things. Tax policy. Some before 2015 they said they wouldn't pay anything until they left. Don't pay anything until the government's gone. Because Mr. Chakalotos will say his charms, it's like Pablo Escobar - I'm not making a connection - to want the drug dealers to go to jail. I'm telling you it was disastrous what your Member said. But I'm telling you that Mr. Chakalotos was one of those who were in Syntagma square and they were shouting about it. As a reaction, Mr President, while respecting six months and parliamentary democracy - because I cannot go out to the indignant, I cannot swear and will never do so because I believe in parliamentary democracy - I will leave the process. And I hope you don't allow each Minister to appear in the House after eight months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u35	What is the procedure now, Mr President? Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Constantinople, because he referred to a Member, even though he left. I have to say that Mr Fokas was also wrong for that reason, recognising his mistake, without I wishing to justify him, he apologiseed by letter to the Conference of Presidents. However, it has been referred tomorrow to the Ethics Committee, where it will come to apologise and explain this. From that point on, the procedures have started. We certainly do not welcome them. I myself, as a Member, other than Vice-President of the House, who is also a colleague of the same party, do not embrace these unfortunate moments and events. I believe that what it is will be decided on in the Committee on Ethics and will end this matter. Perhaps it has been given much larger scope than it may have been necessary, since he called for and apologies. If he hadn't apologized, he certainly wouldn't recognize his mistake. Without that mean that when you apologize, it's all over. Because there is also the proverb “since the apology has been invented, the patronage has been lost.” Nevertheless, Minister, if you want to place yourself in what Mr Constantinople said, you have the right to. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u37	I will be very brief, Mr President. I do not know whether the honourable Member's ignorance is greater for the process of selling the 'National Insurance' or for the phenomenon of 'platforms', which was not only a Greek phenomenon but also a pan-European phenomenon. The slander that SYRIZA was shouting this slogan: "By burning, burning, etc." is a lie. And I am very proud that our youth, when there were fascist elements in the upper square, went there with Irish flags, with Portuguese flags, with Spanish flags and Italian flags and tried through difficult conditions to change this and to do so from a national thing: Greece against Germany, Greece against some other countries, an international thing that put the issues of the Eurozone in the trunk. I've heard this many times about the coalition, about SYRIZA, about the children of youth, ours. It's a total lie. The people who say it's a lie. And they should know and know what the squares, which were not only in Athens, were also in Barcelona, were both in Madrid and North Africa, it was a movement against regional and social inequalities. Never, never, ever, our kids didn't yell at that slogan. Now, as for the other ignorance of Mr Constantinople, I must tell you that all insurance companies are supervised by the Bank of Greece. That is why I hadn't come before, because it's not my business. The National Bank sells a subsidiary for reasons related to its business plan, which has been implemented because of DGCom, which says that when you get state aid in a recapitalisation, you have to lose some of your businesses that are not core. That's why he had to get into this sale process. We tried as a government to stop this and went to DGCom to explain to them that the "National" itself has lost several of the activities that are not at the core. So it is neither our concern nor we organise the sale nor we say what information they need to get out of this process. And it's good for Mr. Constantinople to make some homework read and know what he's asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're even releasing him because the questions relating to his ministry were completed. And until he makes the change with the Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou, I would like to make some announcements about this House: The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, State, Interior, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Economics submitted on 3-4-2018 a draft law: "Recommendation of a renovation body of the city of Athens". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Transparency and Human Rights, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers of Finance and Energy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Finance, submitted on 11-14-2018 draft law: “Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on the services of payments and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn and the MPs of his party tabled a motion for a Law on "Defense in Household Asylum". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I shall also read out some of the impediments of the Ministers before we move on to the next timely question. The third time question under number 1465/4-4-2018 first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Previous scandal with an employee of the Rhodes Hospital", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of Mr. Andreas Xanthos's Minister of Health, who will be at the Regional Development Conference in Rhodes. Also, the sixth timely question 1397/26-2018, second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Disclosures on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, who will be at the Regional Development Conference in Rhodes. We will not discuss the fourth question with the Minister of National Defence No 1438/30-3-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The need to increase military service", due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotio Kouveli, with the cause of governmental obligation, will be discussed. We enter the second with number 1432/11-4-2018 a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "violence and lawlessness in higher institutions". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I will start with a point of order. The question we are debating today was first tabled as a simple question just six months ago, on 16-10-2017. As it was not answered, it was re-issued as a timely question four months ago, on 15-12-2017. After too many postponements, we are finally discussing four months later. Mr President, I find it unacceptable that parliamentary procedures should be disregarded in this way. And I'm getting to the point of the question. Minister, under the last August's law, 2017, you restored an extremely problematic asylum regulation, the so-called 'Academic asylum', and in accordance with this arrangement, the Security Forces are prohibited from intervening in order to deal with a number of violations, without first convening the multi-faceted Prytan council of that institution, to be called to decide on the designation of the act that is taking place at that time or which has already taken place and finally decided whether or not to call on the authorities. We had hit the alarm, Minister, that this arrangement would increase the problems of violence and lawlessness in the universities. Why? But because, in the process that you have instituted, it takes days, if not hours, to hold this convening of the Rector's Council, and in almost all cases the criminal offences take place within a few seconds or not more than a minute. Unfortunately, we have been confirmed and confirmed every day. I will mention only the pre-conflicts against the Presidents of the Departments of the University of Patras which took place, the pre-contrasts against a teacher at the University of Ioannina, the violent attack on a student in Athens, the trafficking of narcotics in the campus of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, the invasion of anti-semitics at the University of Macedonia, the violent attack on a student of law student in Athens within the teaching hall and many other examples. The list, Minister, is indicative of a long and increasingly growing, I would say, a list of such incidents. All these incidents took place after the adoption of the 2017 Law. And I ask, Minister, how you intend to deal with such a serious issue, which has a serious impact on the education process and the quality of the education provided, and whether you will draw up this problematic asylum regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. You are making brutal intervention even in your own logic, because uncontrolled violence and lawlessness in the higher institutions do not exist. I would ask you and your President to take a walk to the foundations, not only to stop Mr Mitsotakis from stopping in front of the University of Economics, where there are very serious problems of infraction. Our educational institutions are not under the sovereignty of violence and lawlessness. To stop this, because, I insist, you are wronging yourself. Secondly, we have indeed reintroduced a provision on asylum. As I have said several times, the operation of universities is based on many and a culture which is historically shaped. There are traditions. One thing you and the various people who have been dragging the situation - a real situation to which I shall refer - is that you are not telling us exactly what has happened over the last seven years when this provision has not been in place. There was no such provision. Was there a proposal from your party for phenomena much worse and more quantitative than they have been then? Was there a suggestion? Was there any suggestions from the fighters? None at all. We believe that a real problem - and I will tell you how it is dealt with - is a very convenient alibi for your party, so that you do not see the positive things that are done. And can I tell you something? The procedures under the law do not say that if you do something criminal, you are not punished. The criminal is punished. It's over. There's no asylum for the criminal. You told me now that there was an attack on a student's amphitheater against another student. What can we do? Let's get officers to attend these classes, too, with their eyes turned back to the amphitheater, and nobody moves? That's not our logic. Let us make this clear: for the first time, our government recognizes the problem and has set up such an important working group. It is headed by Mr. Paramadopoulos, Professor of Law at the University of Thessaloniki, former Minister of Education, Mr. Vardaros, who is Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Vidalopoulos, Professor of Criminology and Anti-Criminology, Ms.Kavumalis, Professor of Law in Thessaloniki, Mr. Benos, Professor of Medicine, Ms. Papadi Clinic Psychologist, Mr. Poulopoulos, Professor of Social Work, Mr.Javellas Deputy Prosecutor of Ephets and Ms.Jika, Police officer from the Ministry of Civil Protection. And, of course, the President-in-Office of the Council. We have recognised something that you often reproach me or think is, in any case, one thing that I say very often. You don't want to recognize the synonymity of the problem. That's what's blocking you. You think society is something black-and-white. So it's not black-and-white. We have therefore set up such a working group to work on the infinite aspects of this problem. And you know, I hope, when you read the press releases, that the Commission's last meeting was following a recommendation by Mrs Vidalis, Professor of Criminology and Anti-Criminology, as well as Mr Poulopoulos and Mrs Papadi. They participated in it and Mr. Kamines, the Mayor of Athens, and Mr. Rectorias. For the first time, we think it is a very serious debate on these issues. We all have to accept that in some places - and I challenge you to tell me the whole set of universities, because you present them as if they were at all universities and the TEI - there is, in my opinion, a serious problem of infringement. This problem must be tackled. Its approach is not the police domination of universities, but it is an understanding of the nature of the problems, because it is not a kind of infraction, and on this basis we can see what measures can be taken in the long term to ensure the lack of this infraction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will raise one of the points you mentioned. You said there was no violence and lawlessness in universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u44	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u45	We'll see about it in the Minutes. To take a recent example, I will remind you of the clear statement made by ninety-three professors in the Law of Athens - that is, almost all of the professors of law in Athens, except for some who are suspended and a few not signed - that is, the vast majority in the Law of Athens, who tells you that the situation has escaped from any control, to take one last example. You tell us that there is no such thing as this, that we have invented it not much and that there is only one institution. Secondly, you said: 'No one has proposed to us. We are told that the Commission will be able to accept the amendments proposed by the Committee on the You're government. You legislate. You have the initiative of legislative power. So you must finally take the share of your responsibility. I agree that the prefectures also have a share of responsibility, of course, but the prefects have said what they want. I should like to read to you a recent statement by Mr Mitka, President-in-Office of the Committee on Budgets, who said that we have asked and still demand that the law which stated that there should also be a university study into infringements of the law in force in the rest of our society, that is to say, police officers should intervene when crimes are committed. Minister, may I remind you that at times you have taken different positions. You have said that it is your fault that you are not making proposals or that it is the Roman student movement that is to blame. Let me remind you of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u46	Not that it's the fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u47	You'll fix me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u48	I'm saying that to protect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u49	I don't need protection, Minister. So, alas, for the families who are fighting and trusting their children in the Greek educational system, we must tell them that these children are responsible for identifying crime, infractions, traffic and drugs. Minister, it's not our fault. It's not the students' fault. It's primarily the state's fault. And when I say the state, I mean not only the leadership of the Ministry of Education, but also the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. They have to take action. And let me, Minister, it is not a solution and it is not an acceptable solution to say: 'We have set up another committee'. Minister, society is watching you. It does not expect you, in the leadership of the Ministry of Education, to set up another committee and, in particular, with the head of all respected professors of law, Mr. Paradiseopoulos, who, however, was not the Minister of Education, as you accidentally said, but the Minister of Justice. As Minister of Justice he released over two thousand people who were convicted of felony. This man is headed by a committee which is called upon to decide how to deal with the issue of violence and lawlessness in our universities. And because you wondered what the New Democracy is proposing, Minister, the New Democracy is clear on this matter. He says it and distributes it to all tons. What do you say? Self-determination of the authorities for all criminal offences committed at the university. Because, Minister, asylum means freedom to teach, freedom to research. It means being able as a teacher, as a student, to speak freely, without having second thoughts about what consequences I may suffer if I say what I really believe. Sadly, however, asylum and especially after your own reform - if you can say reform in 2017 - has been transformed into an alibi for a number of violations within the institutions. I will make one final report, and I close - because you referred to a post by Mr Mitsotakis. You didn't notice her well. In fact, when you replied to that post, you also made a mistake. I don't know if it was intentional or not. You said about the sidewalks. Mr Mitsotakis also spoke of the institutions. Evidently, the pavement doesn't belong to the academic asylum. The interior, however, is part of it. And specifically in the Patisian Patisian you mentioned, what's going on? Systemically all those who do trade enter the institution in order to avoid arrest. If this is normal for you, then I raise my hands up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u51	I did not say there was no violence and lawlessness. I read the title of your question. You say 'violence and lawlessness in higher institutions'. You obviously mean in higher education institutions. Uncontrolled violence and lawlessness? Do you really think so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u52	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u53	If you believe it, you have a big problem. So I'm telling you, join Mr. Mitsotakis for a walk to the universities. I challenge you to do that and tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u54	Let's go, Minister, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u55	You're not going. You're not going! You don't go because you don't know the reality of universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u56	The law teachers are all wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u57	I'll come to that, too. The reality of universities is not uncontrolled violence and lawlessness. It is the reality that the New Democracy wants to impose on universities, because it will make it easier to say that the reforms we have been making have caused this situation. Secondly, do you know what 90 three professors of law denounced? They reported the situation outside the university asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u58	And inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u59	Let me finish. They denounced the situation outside the university asylum, which is in the yard of the Spiritual Center of the Municipality of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u60	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u61	Please read it again and do not create such impressions. You know I'm trying to be very mild, but not when these kinds of coarse lies are called.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u62	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Horn, you don't sound. You just hear a voice. Legislative teachers have mentioned a phenomenon which is, indeed, unacceptable and unacceptable in this area. They have every right to denounce it, but to say that they denounced this. The next item is whether we have the initiative or not. Obviously, we have the initiative, and that is why we want to study it. You seem to have ready answers and in the ready-to-date answers you say "to intervene with the police". Right? Can you tell me who will have the decision that this is self-government and will intervene? Who? Is the dean gonna call them? An accidental citizen passing through there? A student or a policeman looking through the bars will say "white, something is happening, and that is self-evident"? In a rule of law, these things are not done. Take the news. There is a problem with some institutions, but your answer, which you have first topic, and you are supposed to have discussed it with each other, and you have thought so much, it is self-evident for the police to come in. And I ask you very simply: Who decides to be self-government? Now, what did Mr. Mitcas say? Mr. Mitcas says to remain the old law. Right? Except during the old law they became worse than they did today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u64	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u65	I say it. Because we studied it and you know it too. It's about you not having any reference to asylum. And that is not going to happen, because freedom in the Greek universities, which was conquered with so many labors, is often being brutally violated, it must also have reference to asylum. And now look, there are two things that do well to have a feeling when we say it: I referred to the Roman student movement in the sense - and you know that that's the meaning, there's no more - that if there's a live student movement within the universities, it will minimize these phenomena. That's what all the parts of the world show us. This shows, and in our country, what happened when the student movement was in another phase. So it cannot be those who live in universities, i.e. teachers, students, etc., that they are not part of the solution. That's it. I would ask you to revise what you are accusing him of. Mr. Paraskevi was one of the top professors of law at the University of Thessaloniki, now he is an honest professor, he was a brilliant Minister of Justice who drew it up and today's leadership of the Ministry of Justice, that is, human behaviour throughout the world, and he wants very much attention when making public such statements about the work of an esteemed colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the last question for today, I should also like to read the last ones concerning the Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou, because he will be at the Regional Development Conference in Rhodes. So the three questions will not be discussed: The sixth question under number 14602-24-2018 is the first-round question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the problems of 4 million borrowers. Seventeenth question, number 1461/2-4-2018, first question, by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Athens Association of Centrals to the Minister of Finance, on 'Regulating late payment of employees and pensioners to tax of up to 120 instalments'. Finally, we will not discuss the first question with number 1480/11-4-2018 in the second cycle of MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Tax rebate" for foreign film production in Greece. For all the above obstacles, there is also a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government. We are now passing on to the last timely question for tonight's sitting. It is the fifth timely first-cycle question, number 1483/11-4-2018, of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "It is impossible to pay the payroll of the exceptional educational staff and suppliers of TEI Crete because of the failure to approve the 2nd budget of the TEI Crete". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the repayment of the well-paid teachers of the TEIs is not limited to the TEI of Crete alone. It's about those TEIs in the country that have emergency. In Attica, for example, the problem is much more acute. For Crete, the Hours of the TEI have not been paid since January 2018 and in the previous months they have been paid without any prior modification of the budget by the Ministry. The administration of the TEI has requested from 5-2-2018 that the budget be amended to repay these debts and the amendment has not yet been approved. And in Attica since the contract was signed, 29 November 2017 -- note it - until today we are talking about, they have not seen a sack. For the first time, temporary people have been working for two months...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u68	Since when did you say? Excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u69	Since the contract was signed, November 21, 2017, until today, they haven't seen a penny of sacks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u70	Athens?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u71	Yes, in Athens. For the first time, temporary people work two months after the academic year began. It means that for a two-month period there were no lessons, except those of the permanent ones. Under the pretext of delays in the ERGAN Information System, deferred contracts, minimizing the term of validity of contracts, while workers lose part of their wages. The point is, however, that April ends, Christmas passes, Easter passes, and they didn't even get cents. You wondered if they were Christmas and Easter, and how did they do? And yet there is no official information from the Ministry of Education as to when this specific authorization will be granted for the employees, leaving the workers to the unknown with everything that this entails for family planning and individual planning as a whole for their needs. In addition to the payment of the special allowances, Minister, there are delays in the repayment of the TEI Crete, and I suppose the other TEIs, to the suppliers, some of whom have undertaken important functions of the institutions such as: electricity, water, cleaning, room rental, hotels for the most deprived students and other obligations. This result, in our view, of the rapid underfunding of TEI in recent years and in the whole of higher education. The 2011 budget was at 23.5% million and in 2017 something less than 5 million. In six years, that is, the reduction is about 80%. If we include in the above figures and the same revenues of TEIs, then the funding is much lower. So, on the basis of the above, we ask you, Minister, what measures will the Government take to immediately approve the modification of the TEI budget in order to immediately pay their jobs - the school-leaving teachers - and also to enable institutions to serve other basic needs for their operation, the payments of workers and suppliers? Secondly, ensure adequate state funding for the needs of HEIs and TEIs, so that they can function in an uninterrupted manner, providing a high level of public and free higher education and research. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Synthatikis, another question you sent in writing, another question you ask me orally. I have nothing in your question about what is going on in Athens with the delays since November etc. First, in relation to the Crete TEI, the second amendment to the budget was signed on Friday. So there's no question of it. You should be aware that there is this difficulty in adopting and revising budget amendments, because many institutions do not have a budget in line with their full needs, and there is this process, for years, which is continuing. The Ministry is doing everything we can and we think that the institutions also accept a situation in which we work perfectly with it. The second is what you mentioned. If the 29 November 2017 contracts were actually made and they have not been paid, it is unacceptable. I'll study it and tell you. I have, however, a feeling that there are upright people who are paid by state funds and who are also well-written, who are paid with the institutions' own revenue. At the Athens TEI there was a difficulty: they asked for a number of emergencies, but it was more than twice the number they asked for every year. While they took this number every year, half the people were paid by the state, the other half paid them themselves. This year, they did not want to do so, and then they wanted to do so. I'm sure that's what you're saying. However, if they have not been paid, regardless of whether they are from the state or from the TEI, it is unacceptable that these people, after the contract, have not been paid. As far as the budgets are concerned, this tragic crisis was indeed during the crisis - I would say - a reduction in the budgets of our higher education institutions. You know that, for the first time this year, there is an increase of 45% for all higher education institutions, for universities and for TEIs. Already, a large sum has been paid to these institutions since September and by the end of the academic year the increase in the budget will be 45%. We think it's something that shows that we're starting to get into a new period of time. These institutions, obviously, and the rest of the educational community, deserve this money, because they are, in fact, in a very difficult situation and we hope that this rate, with which the funding of our institutions will be increased, can be maintained for the rest of the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u75	Minister, the substance of the question has not changed. The issue was the delay in the payroll of the extraordinary teachers at the TEI. The addition that has been made is that, apart from the extraordinarys of the Crete TEI, I mentioned to you the example of Athens, Attica, and indeed, much more prosperous. So it doesn't change anything. It is a single problem, and as such, at least we are dealing with it, trying to bring it up in the House and in the mass popular movement. So it doesn't change anything. It is no longer the case that you are not aware of the Attica issue. But I would like to tell you this: there is also no justification for this delay in the amendment. You said it was signed last Friday. When, of course, the question was tabled, there was no thought of amending the budget - at least these have been told by the TEI of Crete - and, of course, the submission of this timely question on our part has helped speed up the process of amending it. Now, when practically the workers will put their pockets on their hands, it is a matter and I ask you to speed up this process. I would like to say to you this: Hours cover fixed and continuous educational needs and without them, you know very well that it is impossible to get the educational project, which is the result of the TEI curriculum. To see what side effects we are talking about, of amending the budget, of accrued and repayments, they are signing contracts twice a year: one at the beginning of the winter semester and the other at the spring semester. At Attica University, of course, contracts for the spring semester have not been renewed. We put this to you. In other words, they have not been paid for the winter semester and their spring contracts have not been renewed. In addition to all others, however, these workers are not paid either for Christmas and Easter days or for allowances, although this is an active contract with the TEI. As also, they don't have the right to enter the fund. In other words, they are workers who do not belong either to the public or to the private sector, and in most cases their wages are different from winter in the spring semester, because they do not take the same hours of teaching. That is, for example, in the winter semester one can get eighteen hours, a maximum weekly limit, and in the spring to take twelve hours. On the issue of debts to suppliers, I mentioned you in the prototype. I'll get you an example of the rented rooms for the students. There is a risk that the students will be undone, that is to say, if the suppliers are not paid immediately. You must look at this very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u76	Which place is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u77	I am referring to Crete. But I suppose, since the problem is all about TEIs, which have extraordinarys and have not been paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u78	You meant to the students.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, for the students. I say that, because suppliers may not have been paid, because the budget has not been changed, the problem arises in other parts of the country. I also referred to state funding, but to tell you only that state funding for temporary staff, from about 6 million in 2011, reached zero in 2017. And especially for the TEI of Crete, at the request of the administration, an additional funding of 600,000 euros was provided, which together with some reserves, which had covered some needs now, in the context of 2018. And, as you know, the institutions' reserves have either been finished or will end at some point, so that there is no possibility in the future of recruiting temporary staff. There are also considerable delays in contracts, which creates too many problems in the educational process. Because you know that the teaching of a large part of a course, mainly laboratory, has not yet begun, although we are in the sixth week of teaching. There are also shortages of staff. You know that very well. And all this, of course, works at the expense of the same educational process. But the situation and concern of the emergency is complicated, saying the government will simulate as many people in need of the curriculum. This was said by your advisor. And the so-called 'caramella' that 'if everyone is permanent, that is unconstitutional, will not be approved by the Court of Auditors'. And it is the same 'caramella' that the government has used in similar areas, such as the Local Government agencies for the conversion of contracts into indefinite periods. We are going back to this and tell you that, in our view, the recruits - but, immediately - must be paid, without any bureaucratic obstacles, as well as the suppliers. Secondly, state funding must be bravely increased, based on the real needs, state funding for both HEIs and TEIs for operational and educational needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President. New posts of permanent educational staff should be launched immediately to meet the needs of the institutions. Finally, to secure contracts, until the workers are permanently remunerated, with a decent remuneration and full insurance cover, with regular payments, while providing all necessary infrastructure, spaces, equipment, consumables, for high-level teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Synthraki, I have a feeling that no matter what we say, it doesn't play any part. And the role of the House is to be able to have some arguments. I feel that three quarters of your dentistry could be part of any, almost, question related to universities. You're telling me my answer didn't add anything. How did he add anything? Do you think that, because of your question, we signed the second amendment? That means an ignorance of how the state works, in principle. It's not like that. We need to go through controls, we need to make a systematic reference to all these costs. It is a serious matter of amending the budget. Indeed, the Foundation itself, in response to which it sent us, does not seem to have any problem. It obviously has your party. Secondly, I would ask you, when you are going to ask questions, to make them written in order to come prepared. When you have no mention in your question in Athens, don't blame me, I don't know what's happening to me. I told you what was going on and I'm pretty sure it's what it is, but I'll study it. However, there is not a single reference to your question about the status of Athens. So we must follow the parliamentary procedure a little. Now, you have raised another thing with which I fully agree with you, the emergency status. There's a problem. There is a problem, because our institutions should not be so dependent on the work of temporary staff. In other words, we must try to ensure that this staff is integrated into a more permanent employment relationship. We have the same thing as substitute teachers in primary and secondary education. Extraordinaries and alternates will obviously always exist. However, the percentage must be extremely small, so that they do make up for the exceptional situations which occur in permanent staff. With this logic, we have asked the Management Committee of the University of West Attica - but the same will be true of all the conferences of the universities, which will be working with the TEIs - to bring us concrete proposals for their temporary staff. In fact, there is temporary staff, who have been working for many years and many times, the quality of many departments depends on the excellent work that this staff has done. It's going to solve this. We will see how it will be solved, in a different way, possibly in some institutions than others. We expect concrete proposals from the administrations themselves, so that we can see within the financial framework what we will be able to do about this staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-16-S1-commons.u85	With the agreement of the House at 19.31 p.m. the sitting of the next Wednesday, 18 April, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, is closed, according to the agenda distributed.
