ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 11-10-2018, its minutes of 11 October 2018 were endorsed by the Bureau of the Council, on Thursday, 11 October 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Creation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, cultural and scientific fields’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate of topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 15 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 36/8-10-2018 by Congressman Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 19/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on "The rest of the Molyviati Fund". 3. Under number 28/8-10-2018, a timely question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje". 4. The Question No 17/2-10-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 for the help of the East Attica". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 37/8-10-2018 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on "Regardless of the serious complaints made by a worker at the Central Public Health Laboratory for the creation of bitcoin in the field of machinery". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 41/9-10-2018 by MP Larisa of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Why do you not accept the PIS amendment on the operation of medically supervised premises for psychoactive substances? Can a National Action Plan against Drugs be drawn up without a national coordinator?’. 3. The Question No 43/9-10-2018 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "About a philosophical event in Florina". 4. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies Agreement".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed in today's topical and urgent debate. The third, with number 20/3-10-2018, top-circuit question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The Turkish challenge in the Aegean will not be discussed." The eighth Question No 3/1-10-10-2018 by Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. The first, with number 35/8-10-2018, topical question for second-cycle Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems in the selection procedures of Educational Project Coordinators", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The fifth, with number 46-9-10-2018, topical question for the second-cycle Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement immediately measures to support students who were housed in the fires that were burned and to build new outbreaks", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The seventh question, with number 26/5-10-2018, of the second question of the Independent MEP 2, Piraeus Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the "modology that freezes the MC for the Municipalities", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The second question, under number 27/5-10-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Governmental misinformation, that the guarantors of the highly indebted households are protected", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla. Cause, you've been compelled. The sixth question, under number 388/8-10-2018, on the second question of the Parliamentary Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Integration of a second phase of the expansion of a network of telecommunications distribution of Megalopolis Arcadias" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stathis Giannakis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 45/9-10-2018, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese, it will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior Mr.Alexandros Haritsis, as he is on a government mission internally. Finally, the fourth under number 44/9-10-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "To give an immediate solution to the question of the cleanliness and hygiene of the schools", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. For all that you have heard, there is also a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Akrita Kaidazis. We are starting the debate on four topical and urgent questions. The three will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Stathakis, and the fourth will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Eleftherios Kretsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u4	Will questions be discussed first to Mr Stathakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdos, as I have it from the service, there are three continuing questions to Mr. Stathakis and the last to Mr. Crecho. Initially, the first question will be discussed under number 34/8-10-2018, first question by the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Publication of the remaining WW. for the establishment of Organised Development Areas for Aquaculture.’; Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, Minister, there is no development with wishes and greatities. It is done by projects which, first of all, form a safe, transparent and fair framework for business development. The aquaculture sector, one of the most promising in the Greek economy, welcomed the specific spatial planning framework for aquaculture set up in 2011, because it saw a serious intention to put an end to chronic problems of opacity, misuse and arbitraryness. Sea areas, which meet specific characteristics for the development of aquaculture, have been defined as the areas for the development of aquaculture. Organised maritime areas have been set up in these areas, and they will only be located in aquaculture units. Separation in so-called atypical unit concentration areas was allowed in specific cases only until integrated development areas were established. In fact, a circular was issued by the Ministry of the Environment, which prohibited the installation of new individual units until they became integrated development areas. Where are we today, Minister? We know from the institutional representatives of the sector that seven years later, there has been no single presidential decree establishing an integrated aquaculture development area. Not one, Minister. We have twenty-five applications pending and the deadline for the establishment of these areas expires in about one year in November 2019. We are wondering, Mr Minister, what has not happened in six years' time, since the first studies were submitted? Will you give a new extension by transferring this weight to the next government? Finally, what do you intend to do, in addition to general promises, as recently given by the new Minister for Rural Development to the operators in the sector?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u8	There is no doubt about the strategic role that this sector plays in the Greek economy. This is directly reflected. It's the second branch of the country in exports. There is no doubt, too, that we have an institutional framework, which we are trying to implement in the best possible way. There are delays, that's a fact. The cause is double. Firstly, we have a number of studies - I am going to stand in detail on them - which were not fully mature, so in a number of cases we have a transfer of studies and improvements from the service, I mean to these companies. At the same time, there were also serious shortages in the service as a result of staff limitations and delays. Still, where are we going and how do we proceed? I think that five projects are now at the final stage of sending a draft Presidential Decree to the Council of State. These are the Oxyea, north and south of Evia, the seafront of Orion, Kefalonia-Argostoli bay, Sithonia peninsula - Halkidiki, Ehinades islands, etc. Nine studies are about a high degree of maturation and the rest are still at an early stage. I think that about fourteen of the twenty-four studies will be completed and promoted within a few months, because our intention is to complete them, as the law provides, until October 2019. At the same time, we are trying to improve individual imperfections that exist in the current 2011 law. On the issue of circulars, as you know, the Council of State rejected in 2018 the application and appeal of the Association of Hellenic Marine Agriculture and the Pan-Hellenic Association of Small and Medium-sized Fisheries. Therefore, the application of the above-mentioned circulars, which provide guidance on the establishment of new units, does not prevent the retrospective establishment of a PDO and, in any event, any operating unit, provided that in the area of the PDO is established, it is to be adapted to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u9	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building, thirty-five students and students and four teachers attendants from the 129th Municipal School of Athens and the 4th Municipal School of Cesarean. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Jogaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u10	Minister, the government's actions show that, instead of speeding up the procedures for the establishment of the integrated development regions, a state of anarchist and medium-sized solution is maintained. As you said, you canceled the 2012 circular by issuing two other circulars, with which applications for new, individual farming units were started, in areas of development that were not allowed to become new plants, unless integrated development areas were first established, applications that were submitted after the new specific planning framework was in place. In order to cover the inertia in the implementation of the framework, you have started to do so "tied" despite the fact that the industry had repeatedly brought you up against the fact that you do not give priority to old applications and at the expense of studies for integrated development areas, the risk of committing significant coastal areas and contrary to what is provided for in the specific framework of spatial planning. Who is this situation all right, Minister? Certainly not the correct and overall development of the sector, which the institutionalisation of the integrated development regions can bring. Minister, for PDO Thesprotia only during the first two years, the authorisation to be issued will double the tone, reaching eighteen to ten thousand tonnes. About two hundred new jobs will be created, while the turnover from the new units and units that will be expanded will reach 150 million, twice as high as today's production. I should like to say here that the study for the PDO Thesprotia is the first to be submitted in the autumn of 2012, and at the same time the management body of the region was established at the same time. Minister, you mentioned eight - nine regions, without Thesprotia being inside, which was the first to testify to the study in 2012. It is therefore a mature dossier, which should proceed quickly and by priority, as explicitly provided for in the specific spatial planning framework for aquaculture. Minister, you said in your first speech that by the end of the deadline, in November 2019 they will be completed. But we appreciate that such commitments have been made before, without wanting to prejudge evil. Because I know, as you have said, that in addition to all the problems, there is a shortage of staff, as well as the legal staff, and at the same time they also need other co-legislative ministries, you must give special attention, because, as you have said, it is the second sector that offers the development of our economy, a sector that has further dynamics and will be very useful to focus together. Your commitment and the priorities that will be given must be real and substantial, so that the industry can give the vitality that can be achieved over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u12	Unfortunately, I do not have - to see exactly - the dossier you mention about Thesprotia. However, I share the remarks made and commit that it will really be at the heart of the priorities, precisely because it is a situation that we want to end and do so in the best possible and correct way. I share a lot of your remarks, and I hope that in the next period we will be able to strengthen the Agency very much, because it wants to more than double the people working in the service, and to respond to the timetable set by the 2011 Act and which we must complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u13	Subsequently under number 18/3-10-2018, the second time question of the first cycle of the MP Argolias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The government charged PPC with the "Paraoh's grief". Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, after the theatrical performance "Our great circus" played in Washington, D.C., starring Mr. Kammenos, and after the major economic scandals in the refugee and ERT, we come today to discuss a very unpleasant matter. It concerns the acquisition by PPC of the Scottish company EDS, a company that you bought for 4,8 million euros, had losses of 5,5 million euros in 2017 and when it was purchased, it had 25,9 million loans and credit lines. It's a property company owned by Vice President Skopje, Mr. Kocho Anguisev. We therefore want you to answer the following seven questions. Question 1, why did you order PPC, through its subsidiary, to buy this company?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u15	Who gave an order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u16	The government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u17	Ah, the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you will answer. Don't have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u19	You will have all the time, Minister. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u20	To figure out who gave order if Stathakis gave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u21	Okay. You'll repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u22	Now here's why you gave the order. PPC’s subsidiary in Albania made the offer to buy off this particular scorpion company. And who have you put your CEO there, Minister? You've put a man of your own, Mr. George Lanja. Who's Mr. George Lanjas? He is a man whom you as Minister of Development had placed in 2016 as president on the board of the Greek Sugar Industry. So he's a man of yours, of the government. Secondly, why did you use PPC's subsidiary in Albania as a front and did you not have PPC's central services introduce redemption to the board? What's behind this weird pass? Third question: Why did you commission and give PPC's subsidiary EUR 180,000 at first and then another 50 000 to instruct consultants for the financial and tax control of the company that PPC would buy? So, someone else pays and someone else buys? Does the subsidiary pay the consultants, but does the mother buy? Why is that happening? Fourth question: why are the money placed on the personal account of Mr Zaev's Vice-President? What's the money route, when did the money leave, how did they go, where did they go and when did they go? You've got to answer us. Fifth question: Did the members of PPC's board of directors who decided and agreed to the takeover, know all the truth or deceive them? So did they know that the company PPC buys is the property of Mr. Zaev's Vice President or did they not know that? Sixth question: why does Mr. Juliarakis, as representative of the Greek State and main shareholder of PPC refuse to answer and make the matter a ball to you as supposedly only responsible for this acquisition? Finally, the seventh question: why was the acquisition decision taken in February 2018, but the completion of the controls - fiscal, legal and economic - of the company two months later, in April 2018? So, you're deciding February to buy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Maniatou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. You decide February to buy, but you control the company in April, two months later. Finally, Mr President - because it concerns us as both the Bureau and the National Parliament - the Minister refused to present to the Greek Parliament the recommendation of PPC of Albania, as well as the contract signed by PPC, a contract and a recommendation that at least a hundred people know about PPC and all Skopje. And the Minister, insulting the National Parliament, refuses to testify to it and tells me "if you want to see it, go to PPC offices". This is what I consider to be a top institutional slip of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u25	First of all, the Minister will also have twice as much time - as I have given you - to respond. Secondly, I am waiting as President-in-Office to hear the Minister's reply on your last point before being put. Here, Minister, you have the floor. I'm actually putting you three minutes, but you'll have the tolerance I've told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u26	Yes, sir. I cannot answer any of the hypothetical questions that have been asked to me, since the government has ordered them. What government? When did he order? First hypothetical question. Secondly, with regard to the amount and size of the financial transaction, can I remind you what the law says? The House comes transactions that PPC makes, commissions, takeovers, or anything else, over 20 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u27	Over 20 million euros, with a decision of our own...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Maniot, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u29	Under EUR 20 million, the law says that they are one competence where the disclosure of this data does not even need to be disclosed. Therefore, I respect the law for such a small-scale transaction of PPC. Pass PPC, where it's all public. Apparently, it's all public. We are now going to the contents, because not in the number of inaccuracies that have been made. In February, the Governing Council was authorised by the President and the CEO to take all necessary steps to redeem the entire amount, including the redemption of shares, the definitive determination of the price and the method of payment, on the basis of the prior valuation study. This was not the case, the assessment by the consultant ‘ERNST & YOUNG’ had been preceded. We therefore have a definition at the outset of the price, the value of the company and then the approval for this transaction of expenditure relating to the carrying out of the necessary study audits - financial control, audit, legal control, value assessment study - carried out and the provision of other services that may be required in the interest of PPC's subsidiary PPC ALBANIA SH. Therefore, the above mythological costs will also be included in the contract to be signed between PPC and PPC ALBANIA. Therefore, all the time follows the established procedure by which takeovers are made internationally. There's nothing different. But why are you diving in naphthalene? And I literally do. This is a buy-out that started at the end of 2017, followed by February, had already preceded the "ERNST & YOUNG" and became all the procedures. The company's valuation is not based on a passive year, but on five profitable and so on. All this has been reflected in both the study and the assessment of the fair price. From there on, I think this debate was closed. I think a reminder from Opposition to our neighbouring country was made in February, but that's as far as it goes. Probably New Democracy and KINAL are in great despair at this time when they are recovering issues that have been done with absolute transparency. There is no one who might not have been aware in February, March and April. Last November, the unanimous - and I stress this - decisions of PPC's board of directors were open, well-known. Anyone who has access to them, and I wonder why the New Democracy and the KINAL return an issue, which is so crystalline and so clear. Proceedings were followed by all planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u30	Before I give Mr Maniatis the floor, I would like to point out, Minister, that, if this is a contract of less than EUR 20 million, you do not have to bring it to the House. It does not, however, stipulate that they are forbidden to be brought to Parliament. So ethically and institutionally - and I am addressing a Minister with civil education and courtesy - I think you should bring them to the House, since it is not forbidden by the law. A congressman doesn't go to PPC's office to see a contract. You're typically covered. Ethics and I believe that you will do so on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u31	No problem. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your speech because it is also an awkward position and from a deadlock to the Minister. Let me just remind him that the obligation of all public companies to bring the contracts over EUR 20 million to the House, brought it to the PASOK, and your resignation then voted. But let me continue with my reasoning. If they are obliged to bring the contracts more than 20 million euros, many are likely to have to bring the 4.5 or 5 million euros. But let me get through this. As you said a number of things, Minister, I am presenting the answer with Mr Stathakis' signature, which says that the completion of the checks of this particular sceptic company took place in April, but the decision was made in February, two months earlier. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would add, secondly, that Mr Juliarakis' answer to me, which says 'I have nothing to do with it, but do not interfere with me', despite the fact that Mr Juliarakis as a general meeting of PPC approved this market. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, and thirdly, the decisions of PPC's board of directors that say it will be entrusted to the subsidiary with EUR 180 000 to find consultants, who will make the evaluation and that PPC undertakes to make commitments of up to EUR 20 million of the scorpion company. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to the fundamental political, national question. Minister, I accept everything that this is an investment cellouri, that you have done your best to buy this company. To accept everything. But I would like to ask you one key question: you are at the top of the negotiations on a large national issue, the name and the issue of Macedonia as a whole. Your government sees it as a very big national success. We anyway consider it to be nationally harmful and we will vote against it, but your government thinks it is doing something important. So, at the peak of this great negotiation in your opinion, you come and you buy the company of the Vice President of Zaev. I would simply like to ask why I imagine that there is in PPC or there in the government you are elementaryly large children: if there is this timing there will be or will there be no gatherings, thoughts, reflections, which will be the following, as you did: firstly, you wanted to hide the agreement? Is that why you're bringing her to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u34	It is not now the Minister responsible for answering these questions. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. Did you know that there would be this connection to public opinion, but did you say 'you don't get bored, don't you?', which is the worst of all? You didn't even think about it. Your Government on such top issues did not relate two important decisions, but said "you're not bored, don't you mind?" If the latter is the case, how does a top party official appointed to PPC in Albania recommend the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u37	I'm waiting for the Minister's answers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u38	The last three questions are not addressed to the Minister, Mr Stathakis. If he wants to, he answers, but if he doesn't want to, he doesn't answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u39	I share the President, Mr Kaklamanis, and I tell you that whatever papers you want, he is at your disposal. I take that for granted. Let's actually go. I can't follow your reasoning, I really can't. We have the Embassy Agreement that you consider to be harmful to the country. Are we making an economic decision to move the politically detrimental damage to our country on the other side? Is that what you're telling us? I mean, your reasoning...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u40	You've been answered by the two peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Maniotis, you're an old parliamentarian. Stand up, open the microphone, as if you didn't see me in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u42	I would accept your reasoning - in order to have reasonable relevance, because otherwise reasonable continuity is lost - that it is a good thing for us, harmful to them and we are involved in such types of economic processes to convince our neighbours to accept it. Inverting cannot be the case, at the same time being harmful to us and trying to make it easier to get through to the neighbouring country. It's not both. You are logically inconsistent and I think you are in danger of having a complacent situation in the interconnection of the two issues. Now we're going to my second argument. You are well below the debate on this issue in the neighbouring country. As you know, acidity there is very great on both the subject of the name and the constitutional review. Opposition there put it ten days in February. I'll send you all the papers. I really do not wonder why you in February, March, April, did not raise this matter with a debate. It's all public. I can testify to you all the decisions of PPC's board of directors, which are public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u43	I've already testified them, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u44	And you come on September 7th, October 8th, will you come and see me on November 8th - near my birthday - to raise the same subject again? Oh, that's merciful. Let me remind you, of course, that the Vice-President of the Government there has a wide range of energy companies. He's very active in the energy sector. It has too many activities there and in neighbouring Balkan countries, Serbia, Hungary, etc. But here we are talking about something that has its limits, what has been set. It is a step that PPC has taken at PPC's suggestion of Albania, which takes a small step in a neighbouring country, along with many others that PPC has done at the same time. He participated in the tenders for Albania's hydroelectric power plants, participated in Turkey, Bosnia-Herzegovina and so on. So we have a range of things that PPC does at the same time in the last year and one of these actions was this one. What dimensions do you have to find? I really mean, what do you expect it can come out of such a simple, transparent, simple process, like the one that happened a year ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u45	We continue with the fifth under the number 23/4-10-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine". Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 19 April 2018 a memorandum was submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Energy by the Mining Activities Observatory, according to which the Ministry is not legalised and should not issue any licence if, firstly, the new sub-project of Skouria has not been licensed, as amended unilaterally by "ELDORADO GOLD" on 29-3-2018 with the technical report of Skouria and secondly before the S.E. has decided. on the legality of the 5-7-2016 and 2-11-2016 decisions of the Ministry's competent department - to remind you that the two decisions related to the return of the metallurgy technical study to the Hellenic FRYS S.A. and the rejection of the application for treatment respectively - and even before it was decided, following the S.A.'s crisis, whether or not the technical study of metallurgy and the new investment plan. It should be noted in this respect, Minister, that the arbitration tribunal has not called into question the validity of these decisions, recognising the absolute competence of the General Court. After that, and in order to ensure the public interest, but also the construction of the metallurgy plant, you ask, Mr Minister, is the Ministry legalised, in these circumstances and pending the decision of the St.E., to proceed with the authorisation of the Skouries mine? Since the investment project, Minister of the Hellenic FRYSOS S.A., is the investment project singled out and consists of the mines of Olympiados, the Skouri mine and the metallurgy, was the authorisation of the Olympiad mines? In what way, Minister, does the public interest actually serve when we give the company permission to export concentrates of gold and base metals, when the administration is not convinced that this company can produce clean metals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u48	I think that the issue you are putting has taken a path which, of course, was determined by the arbitration we had in agreement with the company in order to rule on this particular question, that it is a single investment project and that the public side, in order for the country to obtain the benefits, must defend the right and guarantees that it will be a single vertically integrated net metal production unit. I think the arbitration has decided on two things. The first is that the company, for its part, may have delayed the completion of the single investment project, but there are no grounds why the State may terminate the contract. This was the part of the arbitration decision, which actually said that there are delays and so on, but there is no need for the State to be able to terminate the agreement precisely for the delay of verticalisation. On the other hand, the decision made clear and explicitly said that the public has every reason to require guarantees for the completion of the single investment project. After this decision and in the spirit of a sincere dialogue, I think that we are trying, in dialogue with the company, to find the best way to find and strong guarantees for the completion of a vertically integrated project and, on the other hand, for the interim period, until this is done and we have an export of concentrates and ore without processing, to have strong guarantees that the benefits for the Greek State will be enough. This dialogue is ongoing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I am not aware of the reasoning of arbitration. Clearly, and I am not going to judge how this dialogue has actually taken place. We have an investment in our country, and we, Minister, are in favour of investment, but it is sufficient for these investments to be in the public interest. The truth is that I cannot understand - and I am not convinced - the answer you gave me to the third question I asked you. In my other questions, I understand your answers. I do not understand, in other words, how the public interest is served, with the authorisation of the company to export substantially pure gold and base metal concentrates, when the administration is not yet convinced that the company can produce clean metals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u52	Look, as you know, there is this loose end in terms of mutual agreement on the final result. However, progress has been made on this matter. Exchanges have been made and there is a view that there should also be additional studies to ensure that these guarantees are available. So this is part of the debate and dialogue, which - as I said to you - is in progress. As far as the interim period is concerned, I would remind you that the original contract allows for a partial authorisation of activities. Based on this, Olympiad, as you know, had been fully licensed since last summer to complete all the permits for Olympiad. Therefore, my answer is perfectly simple and focused on this matter. Squirrels are an essential part of the verticalization. That's well known. We want additional procedures, studies, guarantees for the vertically integrated and definitive part, since the administration is not yet convinced. This is the object, namely what additional must be given, in order to have absolute guarantees for the end result. At this stage we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, twenty-four students and students and a training session from the 1st Dionysus Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleague, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, is requesting permission from his absence abroad for personal reasons from Monday 15 October 2018 until Friday 19 October 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u54	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The fourth question, with number 31/8-10-2018, will be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on the second question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: 'Best complaints about the operation of ERT'. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u55	Minister, is this your first question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u56	Yes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u57	Good luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u58	I hope we're going in peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u59	With calm, yes, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The arguments will be hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u60	I spoke calmly, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u61	Human and fellow Members say to man "good success" in his work and in his parliamentary work. Mr President, ERT as a public television is useful, because private channels usually do not show aspects of any governmental work that may be serious and important, but which are not of communication. That is why we have always been - as a party and myself personally - in favour of the existence of ERT and against the black one. I do not disagree that on all governments - as many years as I remember politics - public television has always operated to a large extent at the expense of the governments, highlighting their work. There was an exception, of course, of the first two years the crisis broke out, where we were destroyed by the ERT, which we and the journalists supervised with whom our own ministers and structures at ERT had first agreed to work there. The ministers had no responsibilities, but people had no objections. Over the two years we've been destroyed. That was the exception to the rule that public television always operates at the centre of gravity of the government. But here, Mr Secretary, on your day, four years, the situation has escaped. It has become 'SYRIZA Channel' here. And we have the impression that this is what you were thinking about doing in private channels, and that it must be true that, at the time when you were organizing, on the basis of the Pappa Act, the four private channels, you even arranged for who would make political broadcasts. It is picture and harmony of what you have in mind as an update. We've got issues. I, in my speeches in the House, criticised the ERT. I do not know if colleagues had also done parliamentary control. I hadn't done it, but I had these issues put together. We disagreed with the embargo and your party towards SCAI and the New Democracy to ERT. The public debate is necessary wherever possible. I'm not going. And I'm not going because I'm being devastated by your journalists. And when they devour me, it's a matter of dignity not going. But my party's going. He has representatives in the discussions when he's invited. I must remind you that I, too, am paying as a Greek citizen for ERT and my constituents and voters of my party and the voters of all parties of Anti-Population, that is, the vast majority of the Greek people, not to have the information that Mr Pope wants in the news releases or the news shows. But that is a political issue. And within this framework, the politician, we had moved as a Change Movement four years. Mr President, I am closing with this. Suddenly - and I am closing with this, Mr President - your people raise issues of the administration of self-interest, a match with the client state. Listen! This is said by the worker at ERT, Mr. Antonis Alafoyorgos - he will tell me he is a journalist, okay - your advisor says it on communication issues, Mr. Krimbalis, and it is said by the former Minister, MP and historian of your resignation Mr. Philis. They're asking for corruption in indirect terms. Indeed, the journalist asked for the intervention of the prosecutor. In my question today and my prototype, as far as the second part is concerned, on the basis of what others have said, by others who are your own people, in your own area and, in fact, by signifiers such as Mr Philis, and I ask you, Mr Minister, firstly, to take a position and explain to us what these are and, secondly, what you have done after knowing them, if you did not know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor. You'll have a relative tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Mr Loverdos was one of those who had disagreed with the "black" of the ERT, unlike other Members. But, Mr. Loverdos, I think we're living the same drama. We're living a hot food again. ERT retargets. It's nothing new. I don't think it surprises anyone. And I think that this poor, thousands of times-triggered scenario has been overthrown since ERT reopened, since she was back on her feet, won battles and found a pioneer in information, entertainment and culture. It's certain, Mr. Loverdo, that ERT opens up annoying some people. But let us leave this visa, which you can say is my opinion and you may disagree. I would like to say that reality speaks for itself and I think it is good to talk about the substance. Because ERT, likes or does not like some, has an excellent variety of content, despite the fact - to say this - that the reward fee in Greece is one of the lowest in Europe, and despite the fact that the number of ERT workers is reduced in relation to the past and, of course, much smaller than other public service broadcasters. So, since the day it opened, ERT has been the first in the big events both in Greece and in the world, it has the most rich program of mythology and especially in awards, foreign series on first transmission and has the most rich sporting program, which has free of charge to its citizens. It supports the arts and culture with its musical ensembles, with its sponsorships to hundreds of cultural and hereditary institutions. It is perhaps the only "free to air" channel, which actively supports Greek cinema and Greek audiovisual creation. ERT highlights locality, highlights cultural diversity. The ERT broadcasts in all possible forms of technology transmission its content, it is on all platforms, on all networks and has to show many technological innovations. And most importantly, Mr. Loverdos, as far as the'spread of scandal' is concerned, I had given an interview about two weeks ago and said: 'Whoever has evidence, no scandal smell. Let the prosecutor also come to the ERT." But what I would like to say is that all of the above is implemented at a lower cost than in the past. However, I will agree, because there is always room for improvement. I didn't come here to say today that everything is perfect. I'm just wondering why there's all of a sudden such a big noise and there's - if you want - hits sometimes and beneath the belt. It is a climate that is created to make use of, to change the political agenda and to satisfy their vindication of a closed ERT, an ERT shrinked, a simple, cheap monitoring of private channels. I'm telling you with confidence that this won't pass them. We will move forward and with vision, with openness, with clear development objectives. And in your question "What do you intend to do in the near future?", I tell you that we are planning four flagship projects for us: the first is the creation of the 'ERT SPORTS' sport channel. The second is the establishment of two ERT subsidiaries, ERT R&D, which will undertake the promotion of new technologies for the dissemination of innovation and the promotion of research and, of course, the "ERT PRODUCTIONS and STUDIO" which will produce and assist in the residence of original visual content. Finally, we plan to adopt the HBBTV - T2 standard on the hybrid ERT platform for the development of interactive virtual and increased reality applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. The answer given by Mr Kretsos, the Minister at 9/10, was perhaps a speech to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, say, on how the supervising government thinks about the ERT's course. But that's not what I asked. I, based exclusively on ERT's political and administrative staff, asked questions about corruption, namely money coming out of production and going into pockets - all they say, we did not have a idea - and also issues of admittance. These two issues I raised here, as your comrades put them. We've never put that thing in four years. We've kept ourselves politically. Your people say it. And in this respect, in the 1/10 you kept in your first speech, you said in an interview you said, "Whoever has evidence to the prosecutor." That's not a mistake. It's a good move. But it does not relieve you of your other supervisory tasks. What are your supervisory tasks? Call on the administration to explain and tell the National Parliament what the explanations given to you today by the governors have given you the public television. Let them tell you, beyond justice. Are the arguments at 100%, 50%, 10%? Aren't they standing at all? Are these people saying that because that's how it got them down? Your former minister and a historian of yours tell these things because that's how he got off him? Is this the public television property of a minister? Because I've heard once say that Chakaloto also hit a weird show. Are you using it for the government and for your Minister or for him to play a role - in the context I said at the beginning and accept it - in the light of public television? The Change Movement in his communication yesterday talked about downwards. Others write about a difficult situation. I am not standing at anything else - and I repeat this - by your words. And I beg you very much, for that anticipation in your dentistry to take a position, not by saying about justice. That's good, but it's not enough, because justice is doing its job and executive power, as supervising, is doing its own job. In your work, what did you do? Because if you have not done anything, I am justified, Mr President, and I am closing down with this, invoking yesterday's and earlier developments, in order to reach a conclusion concerning my question: Mr. Kammens made some speeches from the United States. The country's upset. In fact, these interventions were exported - they were made by the United States - with scepticism, practicing Greece, as a laughter. And the Prime Minister - and this morning you were told by your journalists that there would be intervention - made sense of all this matter concerning foreign policy and defence. Maybe he's right, because he's leading a government of fun. But the House doesn't have any plates. When we ask you about something, Minister, I do not want to say 'please' - to answer what I am asking you to do. And whatever rest you want, say - Minister, you are - but after you have answered the topical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Loverdo. I think I have answered you, but it seems that it was not clear what I said and I will come back. I thank you for the question, why do you give me the opportunity to talk about the 'ERT' on the substance, with information, not make news, not misleading news, not show-showing cheap and not, of course, with half-truths. It is true that the ‘ERT’ after its opening, after 2015, assigns external productions. But do you know at what cost, Mr. Loverdo? And let's take a seat and KINAL on it. At an average per minute cost, which is 42% lower than that of 'NERIT'. Hold that number a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u68	On the information show?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u69	On the news show, Mr. Loverdo. Also, the ERT currently operates five channels and twenty-seven radio stations with a staff reduced by 50% since 2008. The "ERT" remains profitable in its economics, robust, with a return fee of 30% less than the "Black" era. The ERT is currently having a complete and complete programme, and I do not want to say that it is not possible to improve and that we obviously need to do more. Be careful, however, to come to what you mentioned: It dedicates about 13% of television time to news reports and 21% to information and special news events. Do you know how much the corresponding percentage of "NERIT" was in 2014? It was close to 60 percent, Mr. Loverdo. Another 34%, another 60%. I imagine we all understand the difference. At the moment, the program "ERT" is: 10% distribution to sports and - notice please -56% to quality, entertainment program, offering more than five thousand hours a year on speech and culture shows. What other channel has a corresponding offer in arts and culture? And how much do we actually use the ERT only for the update when we had almost half of your own "NERIT"? It's a respectable thing to say, you want to talk with evidence. So, let's talk with evidence. Since 2015, more than fifteen thousand television messages have been broadcast free of charge as communications sponsorships to artistic and cultural activities and more than twenty thousand radio messages. Can you tell me which other television station, what other television channel in this country has such an offer and contributed to the cultural and artistic activities of this place? Let me take you back to 2014 and remind you that NERIT had only 7.5% of its programme in arts and culture. In briefing and news, I told you he had 59.3%. The 'ERT' only 34%. In entertainment, NERIT had 16.3%. ERT, like I said, 56%. The cost of some emissions, which were excellent and were transmitted to the 'ERT' - and they did well to the 'NET', but they are the same emissions and you can compare them - is reduced from 20% to 40%. Finally, I would like to make a comment, which is not so much about the placement of Mr Loverdos, but about this surrounding atmosphere of maladministration, etc. and it's about football. In 2011 - you are aware of this time, Mr Loverdos, you have experienced it very strongly and you started your protagonist in this period - an IOBE study was published, which states that the football anonymous companies 'Super League' are estimated to offer directly or indirectly EUR 2.3 billion in the country's GDP, about EUR 550 million in the state budget and create over 40 000 jobs. Why am I saying this? Because the 'Super League' broadcasts do not only bring about a significant increase in television to the 'ERT', which is evident, and indeed, a television audience, which we have missed, the young and men's audience, where the telegram in question reaches 30% and often exceeds 30%. In any case, however, I would like to say - of course, the representatives of the New Democracy are not here - that, even if you yourself, or the KINAAL or the New Democracy or anyone else within Parliament thinks that the 'ERT' has taken the rights seven PDPs of the 'Super League' and poorly the 'ERT' is investing in the big sporting events, make a clear decision as a KINAL or as a New Democracy, and let us discuss this here openly and clearly. You say this directly and not through Mr Marinakis' literature and websites. I could continue to quote the facts, but I think we'll see you next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-12-S1-commons.u71	With the consent of this House at 11.26' the sitting for the next Monday, 15 October, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
