ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 3a]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how they are organised, fifty one students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd High School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament decisions: discussion and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'Amendment to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part-Poland) and the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament'. Regulation (EC) No 7876/6041/25-11-2002 (OJ L 1502/B/2002) Decision of the President of Parliament.’ The proposal of the President of Parliament was unanimously accepted by the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(6) and (1), the vote shall be taken without debate. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The proposal by the President of Parliament, therefore, was unanimously accepted as it stands, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the Minutes in respect of the vote on this motion by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products and other provisions’. The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an emergency, and the competent Standing Committee on Social Affairs accepted by a majority as an emergency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 December 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I propose that the debate should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u6	The House has agreed. Therefore, the debate on the bill begins. The first is the rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou for 12 minutes. It opens the system for the electronic recording of speakers for any colleague who wishes to register. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech today with a special reference to my special place, Volos, and describe a picture. We have a square in the Volos of Magnesia, Eleftheria Square, a historic square. That's where people gather, retired people. We are with them every day and we are talking about it. The agony of all these people over the last few months has been whether or not pensions will be cut. We are therefore pleased to see the government today responding to these people's anxiety and to tell them that from 1-12019 pensions are not cut. Ladies and gentlemen, is this decision the choice - if you like - of lightning in hunger? In my opinion, no. It comes as a follow-up to the amendment to return retrospectives to so-called'special wages', following the vote on the draft law to reduce insurance contributions to free professionals, young scientists and farmers and, of course, following the budget's statement for 2019, which we will discuss in the next few days and which, in my opinion, has a qualitative difference compared to all the previous ones. It is a clearly expansive budget with one aim, the gradual correction of injustices, the strengthening of the social state, the practical, tangible stimulus to the household economy and the subsequent growth and strengthening of the economy and the market, if you like. I would like to stress one more point. Everything I have said, and today's choice today, namely the choice of not to cut pensions for 2019, was not at all a political choice. On the contrary, they are fingerprints, signals of a particular political direction, a very specific political planning and, if you like, ladies and gentlemen, they are the result of a product of political will. We have taken a scrupulous advantage of all the financial margins, created from the country's exit from the budget programme in August 2018, and then these financial margins created come to cover them by taking favourable measures. You will tell me, at first, they are quite small, but they are the first steps, the first ones for something very specific, that we are slowly regaining part of our budgetary sovereignty. Therefore, because of this good economic situation, the exit from the 2018 programme, as well as the good situation, the sustainability that EVC is currently showing, we are in a position to cancel painful measures. Such a painful measure is also the current abolition of the reduction in pensions. At this point, at least I personally believe that political choices like today are responseing and describing a situation that we will experience as a political system in the next political period. We are going through the administration of harsh conditions to be able to cancel painful conditions in practice. I would now like to spend a little time in Part Two of the draft law, which is incorporating into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products. The incorporation of this Directive into Greek legislation is particularly important, as it is necessary to ensure at European level consumer protection and uniform regulatory treatment regarding the distribution of insurance products within the European Union. On the substance, the provisions of the Directive are designed to facilitate the unobstructed cross-border exercise of the distribution of insurance products. The Directive improves the minimum standards regarding the rules governing the distribution of insurance products and creates a level playing field between insurance undertakings selling direct insurance products and insurance intermediaries. Thus, insurance undertakings that sell direct insurance products are included in the scope of that Directive and treat the same as insurance intermediaries as consumer information and information obligations. One of the most important aspects of the directive is the introduction that secondary-activity insurance intermediaries are exempted from the strict obligations of the information and information law. The definition and remodelling of the national categories of insurance brokering is as follows: First, the categories of insurance intermediaries that are insurance agents, insurance agents and insurance brokers are provided for, with an absolute incompatibility between the first two categories with the third. Secondly, the directive also describes the general principles of ethical conduct, which should govern the distribution of insurance products, which are based on the best service of customers' interests. The third part of the bill now includes, as a whole, provisions of tax law, measures to support and relieve taxpayers and specific social categories, such as disabled people and multiples. Measures are also introduced to strengthen the framework for dealing with infringements, such as smuggling and tax evasion. To be a little more specific - and I think that the specific measures, which I am about to mention, are worthy of reference, for example, that the VAT rate is transferred from 13% to the excessively reduced rate for the provision of the European Union of 6% for electronic spades and for the Braille typewriters. A remedial intervention is introduced, mainly concerning wheelchairs and laundry vehicles, concerning the possibility for disabled people to buy a car every seven years without paying a registration fee. In the new arrangement, therefore, if the vehicle is stolen, the beneficiary shall be exempted from paying a registration fee, free of charge, requesting the acquisition of a new vehicle after four years of theft of the vehicle, irrespective of the time of theft. At the forefront of dealing with smuggling is now compulsory for all modes of transport electronic sealing, so that the administration can monitor fuel traffic more effectively and detect circumvention effects. In the field of red tape, the citizen is now being given the opportunity to settle tax obligations by paying the electronic paradox, without having to visit it. The possibility of separate tax returns to couples is also introduced, while predicting that minor children go to that husband who has the greatest income. I would stress that we are talking about the possibility of submitting a separate declaration and not of an obligation, in the view that it is more objective and fairer the husband, who has the greatest income to have minors. I cannot borrow a few seconds, so that I can refer to two amendments which, in my opinion, are also of a semantic and essential nature. I shall therefore refer to the amendment tabled to this draft law by the Ministry of Labour concerning the coverage by the State budget of half of the employers' insurance contributions for the main pension for all workers up to twenty-five years. Since 2020 this coverage will be transferred to 100%. This is another extension regulation, I would say, which in practice supports young workers and facilitates their efforts to be able to enter the labour market. Nor can I make a reference to the amendment tabled, which concerns setting up organic positions in all local authorities for the 'Help at Home' programme. Another commitment, therefore, by the Prime Minister from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition is being carried out in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say this, that with Law No4387/2016 the viability of the insurance system was undoubtedly guaranteed, but on the other hand, this law also produced certain asymmetry. There is no doubt about that. As long as, however, we have the possibility of making the most of the margins created to us, these injustices will gradually disappear. Therefore, with a look at social needs, the priority from now on should be the practical relief of our fellow citizens, the correction of inequalities and imbalances, fair and sustainable development, and, above all, social prosperity. For all these reasons, I have also mentioned these considerations, I call on the House to vote in favour of this draft law as a whole and in accordance with the present draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you too for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and three students and three teachers from the 2nd High School of Hymettus. The House welcomes the children and their escorts. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in the committee's meetings on Article 1 of the bill which we are debating today, the additional reduction in pensions was not included in the Third Programme. It was decided and voted by the government majority. The Government argues that this measure is no longer necessary because of the country's budgetary and development perspective. However, the truth is - for us - that this measure has been inappropriate since the beginning, since you voted for it, even though you were then arguing backwards in relation to what you say and you will say today. It is something that the entire government today admits from the development of the whole question, because, obviously, it comes to the arguments we said at the time, the inappropriate - and confirms the permanent position of the New Democracy, expressed several times since 2017, that these cuts should not be legislated. The truth is, too, that this measure will be implemented at the expense of most of the advertised countermeasures, such as the creation of new posts, new pre-school education units, the subsidisation of the participation of those insured for prescription medicines, active employment policies, investment in primary infrastructure and others. The New Democracy, as we have said, disagreed with the government's choice to make further pension cuts from 2019 and then voted against it - through the amendment we tabled - and we have consistently supported, within and outside the country, partners and institutions at all levels, its non-implementation. It is forgotten by the Government that it has already cut pensions by abolishing, among other things, - and there are some things to remind us here - the EASA, the family allowances for main and supplementary pensions. Moving on to an increase in the rate of health benefit from 4% to 6% for all the main pensions received by the retired person, an increase in the cost of obtaining the recognition of fictitious years. By reducing single pensions up to 31-12-2013 at least 20% after May 2016 by at least 42% compared to 2014. Midwives by 44% since 2015. You have also gradually changed the retirement age limits by 2022 by introducing excessive increases in age limits, without elementary transition. You have proceeded to recalculate supplementary pensions since 2016 and cuts to pensioners with a sum of principal and supplementary pension at EUR 1170 net, i.e. 1300 gross. You proceeded to pension freeze and in 2022 to limit future growth, depending on growth of 50% and inflation of 50%, with higher inflation. You created a backup for insurance after twenty-five years and with a fee of more than 1300 euros. You have abolished pension thresholds. I could list more of your own interventions. These, I must remind you, are not cancelled. Because you may be telling us today about the cancellation of pension reductions, but I told you dozens of other interventions, which, unfortunately, the insured cannot be cancelled. From what I have said, then, it is understandable that you have negotiated on your own, you have pleaded on your own, you have decided on your own, you have ignored the legislative initiatives of the opposition parties. No one believes you fought because this battle didn't have to be given from the outset. You have negotiated the countermeasures with the non-reduction of pensions, which - I must remind you - you have only put on the table. The government held thousands of pensioners who did not know what to expect them about their finances, showing unprecedented inconsistencies and hypocrisy in this matter, because she voted for Law No.4387 and Law 4472, where there were great cuts in pensions and it is the same now that it is dismantling it. However, also by tabling this regulation in the bill, new voices are heard by pensioners about the application of a law, as it is now certain that you are now creating pensioners of different speeds, despite Mr Katrugalos' allegations at the time, when No.4387 was voted. They are the old pensioners, who are retired by 12-5-2016. Their pensions are frozen and have no reductions of up to 18%, but they will normally be recalculated and part of their current pension, since it is greater than the amount of the recalculation, is characterised as a personal difference, which is not incorporated into the pension. Non-retirement benefits remain. Law 4472/2017 provided that it would be paid by 31 December of the year we spend on old pensioners and that from 1-019 they would be abolished. If the abolition of the benefits of a spouse or child is annulled, however, these allowances have entered into the recalculation of pensions and are considered to be part of the personal difference. No pensioner will see in his newsletter after 20-12-2018 an amount as a family benefit. And that's why it was incorporated into the personal difference. From what I said above, it is clear that your own policy is responsible for the fact that these differences are no longer part of the main pension, because if you had followed our own stimulus and our own policy and on the basis of the study at the time, this would have been avoided, since there would have been no reduction in pensions. Another category of pensioners is young pensioners without personal differences and with a reduction of up to 20%, who retired or retired from 13-5-2016 until the end of the year. In practice pensioners who left or leave with a pension application from 13-5-2016 until the end of 2018 and their initial reduction in relation to the pension they would receive before the Katrugalos Act are over 20%, will continue to take as a personal difference a part of the reduction that does not apply more than 20%. They will, in other words, remain with the reductions they have now and will not become greater than 1-1-2019. Therefore, from the proposed provision pensions requested by the insured persons between 13-5-2016 and the end of 2018 and for which a negative personal difference of less than 20% has arisen, will continue to be paid reduced. This is because these pensioners were not subject to the provisions on maintaining the negative personal difference of more than 20% after it was abolished. And now, as the government suggests, they are not subject to the provisions on preservation. It should also be noted that in supplementary pensions the maintenance or, if you like, the non-cutting of the personal difference in cases where the sum of the principal and subsidiary was below EUR 1300 - which, of course, is well maintained - creates an imbalance in relation to those which, because they had a sum of more than EUR 1300 and saw a significant cut in their pension. This leads to higher pensions being paid to insured persons with lower insurance than pensioners with higher insurance data. The greatest injustice, however, is for the category of young pensioners, who will leave from 1 to 2019, because they will have no protection from the Katorugalos law and in many cases the reduction of pensions will reach and exceed 30%. And the last: Is it true or not that the increases planned for pensions due to the increase in GDP are insignificant, since any increase will be offset by a level playing field and in fact maintain pensions at the current level? That's the reality. In fact, in order for a pensioner to see any increase in personal differences to be reduced first. We are talking about a multi-annual procedure which, when completed, many of the pensioners will no longer be in life. In conclusion, L.4387/16, despite the eruption it has suffered, remains undeveloping, offering insurance incentives, resulting from the very low rates of pension replacement. It is a law that creates injustices and unequal treatments between insured persons having the same insurance life characteristics. The New Democracy has committed itself to abolishing it and creating a fair and reciprocating insurance system. So we are voting again against pension cuts and we welcome the government majority in our own logic, after their own delusion, which led thousands of pensioners to deadlock and despair. Ladies and gentlemen, in the second part of the bill, from Articles 2 to 50, we find the need to transpose this directive into our national law, for the better application of which, however, it is good for the government to correct some signs of friction with the sectors concerned. We will wait for the final position of the government, as the Minister has promised, in order to give our final vote, particularly in the articles which have been opposed by these entities. We are going to the third part of the bill, that is to say from Articles 51 to 85. In the committee we have tabled our comments in detail on each of these specific articles. Some of these are positive, as I say - 54, 58, 62, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 74, 80, 83, 84, whereas some others need further clarification and I quote 52, 53, 55, 57, 59, 60, 61, 63, 64, 68, 77, 78, 85, for which we will clarify our vote after hearing the final positions of the government. In conclusion, it is clear that the government has tried to use communication and to use the election to cancel pension cuts. Loses or corrects, if you want, her own mistaken and unnecessarily political choice. As shown by the reactions of the bodies invited to the committee, society is not trapped in such tricks. It records the bilingualism and inconsistency of the government, does not understand the celebrations, seeks responsible politicians to move forward, with more optimism for the future. Finally, we pointed out that, despite the abolition of the cuts, dozens of other arrangements remain, which are not improved and are only abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u10	So do we. Mr Koutsoukos, rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we have welcomed from the beginning the government's intention to 'vote' what it has voted with both hands, with two roll-call votes on 18 May 2017 and 14 June 2018. In other words, the last vote was five months ago and less, where the government majority with a hundred and fifty-four votes, composer, confirmed the pension cut. We said, I wish the government could accept as a whole the proposal for a law, which we had tabled on the non-reduction of pensions in order to overthrow this "extraction" called "insurance Katrugalos", n.4387/2016, which I described as "Lernaia Hydra", because when you try to correct a problem, you are throwing two more. So, despite the fact that the government, in the face of the reactions that the pension cut would create, at the last moment, rushes to bring this provision of law, but this institutional abortion is unfortunately still alive and will torture workers and pensioners if it is not overturned as soon as possible. Why am I saying that the government voted twice with its two hands to cut pensions? Because I want to remind you that in the vote on No 4472/2017 government arguments were the countermeasures. Mr. Tsakalotou's charms from this step, which talked to us about the Pan-Eleucine and Barcelona, remembered by the government majority? He told us that countermeasures are greater than pension cuts. So Mr. Chakalotos didn't say we're necessarily cutting them. He said we cut them off and save resources to give the poor. They took all this back today, of course, because the government discovered that this cut, which in the medium term was estimated at 1% of GDP, that is to say, 1.8 billion, following the recalculation of pensions, amounted to 3 million,000,000 for the time ahead. How does that turn out? It results from the report of the General Accounting Office. What does General Accounting say? It says that the cost of not cutting is 2,728,000,000 for the main pensions and 232,000,000 for the EIF, a total of 2,960,000. Do you know how much that is for any retired, ladies and gentlemen, who would see the pension cut from recalculation? If we believe the government, six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners will get increases. Indeed, some will. These are the examples given by Mr Petropoulos the other day, the high salaries of the special insurance funds. Look at the examples he gave us. He gave us the example of one who gets EUR 4,100 pensionable earnings. Do you know many such Greeks? So if we seriously appreciate what the government tells us, that six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners will get increases, I say that some people will get the right amount of money, because taking ten euros and getting a bucket in the year by 2022, you understand that it is not a single shivlaki, said here by the old trade unionists of SYRIZA. If we calculate that about six hundred thousand OGA pensioners are not in the process of recalculating, of the two million five hundred forty-five thousand, all of whom are retired, we have one million three hundred and twenty thousand. So if you divide 2,960,000, which is the cost of the cuts, as calculated by the General Accounting Office with the number of pensioners to be cut, you will make an average cut of EUR 2.242 per pensioner. That's what scared the government and collected them. Not only did he pack them up, but he is lying to us and to blame, that is, that we prevented it. It is typical of what Mr Petropoulos said in the committee on Mr Venizelos that Mr Venizelos was in favour of pension cuts. It is not just Mr Venizelos' signature to the proposal for a law that we tabled on 5 July on the non-repayance of pensions. It was also his speech here in plenary, five days later, when with figures he argued that this cut after the pension freeze did not have to be made, because the equivalent had been guaranteed in budgetary terms. When I put in the Minutes Mr Venizelos' speech and told Mr Petropoulos to apologize, otherwise he is a common liar and a slander, he said, "In other words, to be loved." The government is trying to show that we, the bad guys, have destroyed the place, cut 65 billion euros from pensions and now it's coming to solve matters. No falseer, because the government not only accepted all the cuts that existed before the Kakrugalou Law, i.e. before Law No.4387/2016, incorporated them into the philosophy of the law, in its institutional dimension, but also proceeded with further cuts. The fact that during the Committee's debate the government's majority almost caused the ADED representative, when he presented the examples of cuts, shows their perception. No one's willing to tell them the truth. No one's willing to bother them. They form a fairy tale, a second tale, a second illusion, a continuation of the lies with which they became government, believing that they will mock people again to vote for them again, so that they can retire their pensions. And why would they cut off their pensions again? Because the personal difference in Article 14 of Law No.4387/2016 remains, ladies and gentlemen, in a box as an allowance, and therefore any other day can be cut if the budget is not well spent. I am also impressed by the fact that the attention of the government's MPs and the ministers, unfortunately, is being eroded, because Mr Petropoulos is one of the top ministers and may have the office of the State Secretary, but the burden of supporting the insurance company Katrugalos - the fact that the government has committed itself that by 2022 pension expenditure will be at 12.9% of GDP. This is the government's holistic programme. I haven't written it, it's a collective government project. We 'bad', therefore, committed the country to pension expenditure at 16.2%, as the government said, and that is why we made EUR 67 billion cuts. Their holistic programme says that all the cuts in budgetary measures were EUR 67 billion, i.e. 35% of GDP of which only 6.5%. They're not going to compromise with the truth. But it's the numbers, the fairy tale they sell in the world. In any case, what matters is that despite the fact that personal difference from pensions will not be reduced, the haircut of insurance remains. Thus, we will have the old people insured with the personal difference box, which is summed up for the years before us, according to the General Accounting Report, at EUR 11.3 billion. It's said in the General Accounting Report: 11.3 billion euros is in a box, under cut under other conditions. They are the new pensioners who came out after May 2016 and have suffered the reductions, but with a wall when the reductions are over 20% starting from 1⁄2 and ending up in half of the difference. When the personal difference is less than 20% it has already been cut. There are also new pensioners, those who will come out of 1-1-2019 who have these dramatic reductions that were presented the day before yesterday by the representative of the ADED with examples. I also have a series of examples showing that these cuts are up to 36.6%. In other words, a civil servant with thirty-five years has a pension cut of EUR 330 and a worker in IKA with eleven thousand sixty-four badges has a pension reduction of EUR 438. I put forward the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Yiannis Koutsoukis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are still waiting for Mr Petropoulos' denial in these examples, but unfortunately we are not seeing it. Because, as I said in committee, they are wicked people. If they did not want to reveal the size of falsehood and fraud, they would have sent recalculated pensioners. It's their obligation by law and they have said they will. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal to change this law, a fairer, more rewarding system based on current budgetary data. Because it is another, ladies and gentlemen, to cut pensions so as not to collapse the insurance system when Greece had a deficit of 35 billion in the general government and another to make cuts in this amount when Greece has a surplus of 7 billion in 2016 and 2017. Our proposal will be our flag over any political developments. I'm telling you to keep this in mind, everyone. I now come to the amendments, because for the body of the bill on the issues of insurance intermediaries, I have said from the committee that we are waiting for the corrective intervention of the Minister after the ombudsmen's remarks to be placed. We are positive, as is the case with most of the tax provisions. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, take our amendment which has eighteen articles and study it well and when you copy it correctly. You are bringing in a cumbersome arrangement to grant the social security contributions of up to twenty-five years. We have here a comprehensive proposal to exempt young people up to five years, three years without contributions and tax and two more years by 50%, to create new jobs, not because it is a new job, but because it is a new job. See our other proposals on VAT on the islands which end in a few days' time, on VAT on fodder, on excise duty on wine, on business tax, on solidarity, on the end of a trade, on HNVIA, to facilitate the retirement of those who owe and cannot receive a pension. See our proposals on the minimum pension, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Minimum pension means that what you cut him off and now takes a basic pension, we must guarantee him a minimum amount. We say 500 euros and 700 if they're a couple. Bring in a different proposal. Read them well, then, and place them. As time is vague, unfortunately, I did not have time to study the amendment on 'Help at home' which was tabled just now. But there I have to tell you that you have read our proposal better, because instead of a state agency, which you said you were going to build, you are recommending the positions of the municipalities, as we have proposed. It is a lack of regulation, because we have said that the positions must be personal in order not to jeopardise the workers whom you share with the pre-service. I think that you have room during the debate to correct it, in order to provide a serious solution and perspective to an institution that was launched by the PASOK governments, society has embraced it and is very useful. As a result, we will vote in principle on the non-subtraction of pensions and the specific article which, as I said, is a copy of our own. And since Mr Tsipras usually comes in these procedures and makes a speech, I have called on you to table a motion for a roll-call vote in order for Mr Tsipras and Mr Kampos to wash their vote on the pension cut. We'll wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u12	Mr Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. From the outset, I have to say that as Golden Dawn, we will vote in favour of Article 1, which concerns the non-repayability of pensions. SYRIZA follows a tactic of the popular wrath and indignation that exists at his expense, since not only did he become a Memorandum Party, while they appeared as an antimony, with the help, of course, of course, and the unequivocal support of the Independent Greeks, but also because he violated almost all of the programmable announcements. Therefore, in the context of this reciprocity attempted by SYRIZA with a tactic that refers to a leninist tactic, Article 1 will be voted in favour today, as rules favourable to Greek citizens such as the social dividend - which, incidentally, in 2018 is less than 2017 - the reduction of certain cases in HNVIA, while it had promised its complete abolition, the reduction in insurance contributions, but also the retroactive issue of employees with special wages. I would remind you that the Golden Dawn had voted'saints' in this bill. One of the reasons was that three special wage groups had been omitted, at least three forensics, forensics, high priests, but also diplomatic officials. The government should bring an amendment to coroners, high priests and diplomatic officials in order to convince the people that this particular vote, concerning payrolls and retrospectives, was indeed political will rather than compliance with a judicial decision. If it does not, then, all of a sudden it has complied with a judicial decision without at all any political signs, I mean a sign of will in the policy that is being pursued. In the second part of the draft law incorporates a European Union directive, Directive 97 of the year 2016. I would remind the House that the directives are not European Union regulations, that is to say they are not binding on how to achieve the goal. Clearly, targeting is binding, but the way is not binding. The Government should ensure that this is a question of Part Two, that is to say, the transfer of social and public security to private insurance. We believe that this is the case and we will therefore vote against Part Two. As far as Part Three is concerned, various provisions are set out in great detail, but there are also some positive ones which I shall make a brief reference to. In Article 75, regarding the needs of the training of dogs detectors of the customs services of the AACC, training days shall be allowed up to two hundred out of sixty. It is, clearly, a positive article. It is also a good thing that Article 69, which we shall vote in favour of, is a provision which, in fact, can serve as a protection for public health. It is, of course, about imports and movements of equipment and machinery for alcoholic beverages. There is a need for strict control on all these issues, because there are little incidents in Greece where due to fraudulent alcoholic beverages people have lost their eyes or even their lives. This has happened to Ionian islands. As far as Article 67 is concerned, we shall be voting in favour of it. We will also be voting in favour of Articles 54 and 55. On the contrary, we will vote against Article 52 and Article 53, which renders credit institutions responsible for collecting taxes in the name of the State. We believe that this legislation is incorrect and this article should be withdrawn. We will also be voting in favour of the 'white spades' provision for our fellow people who have serious vision problems, as well as for the corresponding typewriters, as well as Article 71 on electronic systems to safeguard quantitative and qualitative integrity during the handling of pre-treated quantities of fuel from various means of transport, such as tankers or shipowners. In conclusion, it seems that the main article of the draft legislation being passed - I repeat - is Article 1. It seems to the Government that, in the context of a policy which, after the so-called exit from the memoranda, comes to growth, which we believe is another illusion of coexistence if not political fraud. Inflation amounts to 1%. This concerns the period of the last year. Debt is at 179% of GDP. The government claims that unemployment has declined. That's a fake. Unemployment has declined because there is a 'brain drain'. But the crucial element for growth is the workforce. And investment, of course, but I will refer to the workforce. The workforce today is three million ten thousand, when ten years ago there were four million six hundred thousand. Then the unemployed were four hundred thousand and today more than eight hundred thousand. That is why we say that the government is using this so-called exit from the memoranda to mislead citizens once again, which we believe will not happen. The only positive thing, if anyone is looking for various economic indicators that the government has achieved, is that they have increased their gold reserves in Greece to the hundreds of thirteen tons. Mr President, I should like to close by addressing an issue concerning my constituency in Corfu. Many within the Athletes are fanatical readers of the newspaper “THEWARDS”. I am referring to the murder of a 63-year-old Albanian man from a forty-four-year-old Corfu. In fact, various circles tried to immerse themselves at the expense of the Golden Dawn. So, I am mainly informing the MPs, but also the reading audience of the newspaper "EFYMERIDE OF THE COMPANY", that it is absolutely false that the manslayer was a member of the Golden Dawn and a slander that is mentioned by author Aphrodite Giantzis, that I personally, twenty years of coroner in the Ministry of Justice, visited the village of Dratotina, speaking and conspiring with chrysayites, in order to cover homicide. This, of course, has a very serious legal component and a legal component, legal, criminal, but also civil responsibilities for the 'TEVEN OF THE CONSTITUTION', as well as Mrs Aphrodite Giannzi in particular. I wondered, Mr President: why is this slandering defamation of the Golden Dawn, my face and parallelity with the Rupadia case, which is also a construction? Why does SYRIZA, with various components, pursue the same policy as the New Democracy? It's the same reason. So then Golden Dawn had about 15%, according to polls, and the leading concepts of neoliberal and non-patriotic formation called "New Democracy", then decided to hamper a criminal organisation charge. That's what SYRIZA tried to do in Corfu. And to confirm that this was the reason, namely the election rise of the Golden Dawn in Greece, but also in Corfu - especially in the south - came from a public statement by MP Kirkras, Mr. Lighten Vakis. Ms. Fotini Vaki on a show by Corfu journalist Spiros Zignatis said, "Don't be surprised if you see Golden Dawn in the south of Corfu in the next first party elections." That's what Mrs. Vaki said. We fully agree with her. Indeed, that's how it's going to be. In conclusion, I would like to say that such efforts are falling into the blanket. Golden Dawn is moving legally and politically and will defeat a corrupt political system, whose axis is the party of the parties of the so-called constitutional arch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr Katsotis, rapporteur of the JRC. Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. The title of the bill in Part One is ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions’. We ask: Does this title really have anything to do with the substance of Article 1? Does it abolish the provisions of the reinsurance laws from 2010 until today that have reduced pensions, both main and ancillary, over thirty times, which have reduced the income of pensioners up to 50%? Does it restore the lower pension and abolish the re-budget that gives hunger pensions? Does it abolish the replacement rates that from 70 to 80% have gone to 43%? Does it abolish the unacceptable arrangements for widow's pensions? Does it restore the pensions of farmers who from EUR 486 get EUR 320 today? What is provided for in Article 1? It provides for the non-cutting of the personal difference to the old pensioners, to those who are retired before the Katorugalou law. We shall vote on this article. However, we note that those retired under the Katrugalu are retired in the new way of calculating the pension, with the new reduced rates of replacement. Result? The average, new main pension to reach 480.29 euros from 708.02 euros that were before him. This is the result of the Katorugalou law. Pensions remain frozen until 2022. You're committed to this. If the budgets allow it, you may then give a "pull". Otherwise, they will continue to be frozen. This development, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not about festivities, as you celebrated in the committee, but also here today the SYRIZA rapporteur. You celebrate because you won't make another cut from the thirty or more that you and the previous ones have done. That reminds us of the joke that the people know about. You're setting up a fight. You are allegedly presenting yourself as opponents. You blame each other for doing more pension reductions. Yes, no one disagrees that New Democracy and KINAL made twenty a reduction in pensions. We ask: have you abolished any of these reductions? No, of course not. Incorporate them all and continue the towel. Truly, did the SYRIZA Government, beyond talking about the previous ones and creating the impression that it has a different place, overthrow any of what it denounces? You are blaming the previous ones to hide that you have incorporated all the reinsurance and reinsurance laws of the last decade and more genuinely implemented the decisions of the European Union, the OECD, the claims of monopolistic and business groups. The radical incision, as you called the Katorugalou law, on social security - "revolution" had called their own laws - overthrown what was left of the social character of the insurance provided by the hard and bloody workers' struggles. The struggles of pensioners' organisations were uninterrupted this year. They organized a hundred and fifty-two gatherings and many rallyings and continue with a pan-Hellenic rally on December 15, in contrast to what the SYRIZA rapporteur said, that in Volos square everyone is satisfied with the law brought by the government. They express their anger, their indignation about your policy. This anger you are trying to overcome by abolishing the new reduction from 2019. You are talking about the new era, about the end of the circle of memorials, as Mrs Ahtsioglou says on the occasion of the provision that personal disputes should not be cut off. You talk about the end of the memorials without having abolished one of the over seven hundred anti-galactic laws. Isn't that the truth with the head down? You have a courage to say that you must be judged from now on, while you have really immersed the people's family in poverty, impoverishment, with auctions, with confiscations, to support precisely the monopolies of business groups. What are you coming up here and saying? You say we won't take you down, and we have some measures to keep you, to live with a few, to have the low bar, not to demand that you do not require that capitalist recovery is at risk, that competitiveness, the profitability of business groups is at risk. That's why you activated the Law of Brutsi, New Democracy, which abolishes collective bargaining for lower wages. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and the Working Environment. I mean, cheap labour force. You are presenting this option as an increase, as a support for labour rights. If that's possible! You are subsidising business groups with the insurance contributions of young workers, as provided for in today's amendment for a vote, while you are only giving 10% of the unemployed and claiming that you support the unemployed, with an allowance, of course, which has gone to 360 euros. Where does the grant of insurance contributions lead? Does it not lead to the free movement of workers from participation in insurance? While implementing the Employee Exemption from Contributions and the drastic reduction in State Participation, you only provide the state guarantee for the so-called national pension of EUR 345. You are strengthening the logic of payroll by transferring to the worker the responsibility for decent living during the period of his retirement. Your policy cannot ensure the pensioner's expectation of living closer to active life, as you say. You have led much of the pensioners to live with a pension of 500 euros, with more than a million two thousand people living with this pension. What's New Democracy, the KINAL? Do they have a different opinion? Are they talking about abolishing pension-reduction arrangements? Oh, no. Their programmes are the memos, the first, the second and the third, which you have all voted together. Memorandums that ensure the profitability of business groups that break wages and pensions, forming a work jungle, blemishing with taxes, the ENPIA, the working people's families. This is your strategy, which you serve, which you will implement in any form of government. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has agreed on the assessments of the third memorandum that the insurance will remain for the future, after the memoranda, open to changes according to the country's budgetary capacity, the bloody surpluses to be guaranteed. Social security, as we believe it, must provide workers with decent pensions and human treatment, such as to meet the current needs of the pensioner and the worker. That is what the amendment we tabled as a JRC serves and I would like to present it. It has four articles and condensed the demands of all these struggles of pension organizations, workers, self-employed, farmers, scientists. Article 1 provides for the abolition of all reinsurance arrangements which have led to reductions in pensions to date. They shall be abolished retroactively from their time of validity and shall be refunded to their beneficiaries the corresponding amounts at the same time and shall fix the amount of the pension without the reductions. The Legislative Framework on Main and Additional Pensions, as established before the implementation of Law 3863/2010, is re-established. The new method of calculation for main and supplementary pension is abolished retroactively for all those who established a pension entitlement after 13-5-2016, as well as for those who were already retired. On the basis of this amendment, the recalculation of pensions and the reduction of the personal difference is abolished. The minimum pension is set at 80 % of the lowest wage of EUR 751 and the lowest pension starts from EUR 600. The rate of the pension is set at 80% of the remuneration of the year of departure or if there are better, the average earnings of the best three-year period from 2002 until the application for the pension is submitted numerically adjusted. Article 2 concerns the reintroduction of the 13th and 14th pensions. Article 3 concerns pensions due to death. The pension for death shall be fixed at the level of the pension received by the deceased or the deceased, irrespective of age limit for the widow or widow. So is pension if the beneficiary is a baby. The percentage shall not exceed 100% in the case of more beneficiaries. Article 4 provides that the State is to guarantee the full pensions, both the main and the subsidiary. That is our amendment. We have no illusions that the government, as well as the other parties, will accept our amendment. It has already been rejected by the committees. Your policy is against these proposals, because it is against the demands of business groups, which you are committed to supporting and implementing their choices. It is a great challenge, however, for the whole of the working class and the people to refer to a draft law on pensions and a second part with fifty articles on the framework for the operation of the private insurance market, incorporating the directive of the European Union. Workers, pensioners need to draw conclusions from the agreement of all other parties with the support, strengthening of private insurance systems against social security. We are voting 'in principle'. We call on the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners at the totalitarian rally organized on 15 December and at the trade unions' rally on 18 December against the class, anti-liberal budget, which vacates many with 1 billion more worthless taxes, with 1.3 billion cuts, to give the few, the business groups, with tax exemptions, tax exemptions, warm money for supposedly growth. The overthrow of your policy is a one-way for the majority of the people. Our amendment and the proposals for legislation, which we have tabled for all aspects of people's lives, call for their struggle to be made, not to bleed for the few, not to have reduced requirements and to put their own needs ahead of the JRC. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you too, Mr Katsotis, and for the exact respect of time. Mr Haritsis will now be given the floor to present an amendment. If another Minister - apart from those who are known to have tabled amendments - has an amendment, he has it as soon as possible. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are doing another commitment to our government. The reduction of the personal difference in pensions is also formally cancelled, by law now, so that there is no doubt about the citizens. As we said at the outset, this was a measure of unnecessarily, fiscally inappropriate and above all socially unfair. That is why we have said that we will do everything we can to ensure that this measure is never implemented, when others have not just anticipated the reduction in pensions, but that some have not been able to hide their joy in the face of such a potential. Sadly, however, for them and fortunately for the Greek society, they have fallen out, as have been out so many other times in recent years, in their attempt to terrorize the Greek people with "fake news" and uncovered catastrophe. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we are voting on today is not the exception. These days, a multitude of positive measures in favour of the social majority, measures which remove many of the injustices of the memorandums, but also strengthen the development perspective of the Greek society. Measures, such as the social dividend paid these days to our hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens, the significant reduction in HISPI for the majority of citizens, the reduction in the tax rate of 1% per year for the next four years, the targeted reduction in insurance contributions, the gradual increase of six hundred thousand pensioners from 1-1-2019. Immediately afterwards, the first budget follows after ten years which not only contains cuts, but on the contrary is social and developmental. It is part of this policy that I shall present to you immediately. It is about guaranteeing and guaranteeing a very important social programme, the 'Help at Home', a programme that for more than fifteen years has been providing valuable services to our vulnerable fellow citizens throughout the country, over-aged, insecure, people with disabilities, especially in the province and the most remote areas of the country. It is a program that prevents situations of social exclusion and referral to closed care structures. This amendment introduces permanent staff posts for the first time in the municipalities that are already part of the programme, more than three thousand negotiated permanent staff, with a view, in particular, to extending these services to other municipalities in the future. Furthermore, it is guaranteed from state budget resources - already from the 2019 budget - that will happen - the full funding of the programme. With full respect for the Constitution, a competitive procedure is being introduced through an APA to cover those positions that municipalities will recommend to their social services. At the same time, provision is made for a specific mobilisation of the service already located in corresponding service positions under the programme. This is precisely because of the particular importance of the accumulated experience of these sensitive services, but also because of the personal relationship which has in many cases been created and developed between workers in the programme and the people who accept these services. Care is also taken for workers with an indefinite employment relationship who are already working in the programme. These workers shall be transferred to personal positions in the same capacity and organic units of the municipalities. Finally, it is foreseen that workers occupying the new posts will be employed for at least one decade in the programme services and shall not be moved, seconded or transferred to other posts. We are thus making our political will clear and clear that these services will continue to be provided uninterruptedly and uninterruptedly in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment 'Help at home' is being upgraded and a permanent social state institution is finally being established. This is a programme which has been embraced by citizens and local communities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance for a minute. Furthermore - and this is very important - this unacceptable scheme of work hostages and eternal recycling ends up for thousands of contractors operating the programme, that is, workers who, under difficult and unfavourable conditions, have provided valuable services to the society all these years. Moreover, those who work in the "Help at Home" will work firmly, safely and with the guarantee of their working rights. We thus restore a great and chronic injustice to the detriment of thousands of workers who had been turned into a pawn of successive governments and municipal authorities for years. Both with this amendment and with the thousands of other recruitments of permanent and stable staff at the local government agencies which are in progress or are scheduled for the next period, we are putting an end to the elasticisation of labour relations and the deterioration of workers' rights in local government. For the first time after years, the great needs of the ATTs are met with staff and the rights of workers are guaranteed throughout the area of self-government. With a plan, determination, but also with full knowledge that the fiscal stability which we have achieved over the past three years must not be disturbed, because we believe that it is both mature and necessary, but above all socially just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u18	So do we. Mr Papachristopoulos, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. It is not even three days since the 'THE WALL STREET JOURNAL', that is, the 'here' of the capitalist system, excludes a country from all over the European Union and writes - I would say that it also touches the limits of the dictator - what is happening in our country, positive. I say this because a large part of the counterpopulation is trying to degrade or even zero some measures taken. I would like to begin by saying that no one triumphs about the current situation in our country. I believe that we must be modest, landed and under no circumstances take our minds, nor with the EUR 910 million of the dividend, nor with the rest recently given to special wages and added for other categories, nor with the fact that more than one and a half million applications have already been made at the electronic gate and have been approved at around 60%. I would like to remind you by number, because there are too many of them, the negative measures - I am starting with the negative ones - of this government from 2015 to 2018. If you take away the EUR 3.5 billion positively, it was around EUR 6.5 billion. Similarly, negative measures between 2010 and 2014 reached 65 billion, which means that something is changing. And yet no one triumphs, because unemployment since 27.5%, slowly but stable, is already at 18.6% and goes down with three hundred thousand new jobs. Nor do we triumph because growth this year will be 2.1% and probably 2.5% of the year. Nor triumphantly do you because exports will be at plus 5.8% for 2019, tourism almost has an explosion of about thirty-two million tourists for this year and foreign direct investment will actually hit record for this year. There are two things we need to take care of. I'll say the cry of agony. Around 4.3 million people owe tax. You see, we don't make fun of each other. We know the truth and we see it. But the overwhelming percentage of these people owe little. A much smaller percentage owes too much. Also, the public, even now that we're talking, owes three billion. He owes them, and he has to pay them back. I am still beating the alarm that the Katselis law will already have a six-month extension, but I believe that the issue of first residence must be taken into account. There is an outbreak program in Cyprus, where one third is subsidized and the other two thirds pays the person he owes. I think we're on the right track there too. That's about a hundred twenty doses. For me, it's a cry of agony. Can I tell you something else? I have no hesitation, because I have heard it say so by the Chief of Staff, and that is its role, to make positive proposals. I think it's casus belli. There are people who owe tax. It's millions of people. It is a few sums that it owes and it will have to be resolved very quickly. That is what I have to say with regard to today's reality. I'm coming to the object. I would like to remind you here that cantarians have been spilled - forgive me the expression of exaggeration - of inaccurate pension cuts. I don't want to remind you again. I've been through the committees many times. We knew, however, that when the targets were taken, there will be no reason to cut pensions. No one is talking today and we are seeing the harsh critics - I have in front of me speeches, what they were saying, the dangers, the overthrow, the distortions - really come because they know that they will run counter to public opinion, with society, and that the measures are voting on. The target has been caught and the target has been captured for a simple reason: Offshore, economic tradition, strange dealings with banks have stopped. We were asked by the DIE WELT then to tax the 600-700 billion left abroad. It was good. Some, too, have invested in taxfree. In a very polite way, the ministers say to them: be careful. I directly tell you that there will be no tax free, so don't invest again, because you're being exposed. I would also like to say that the eleven commitments made by the Prime Minister have almost all been legislated. There's still three to four. Some were mocking at "Belgium": "What is it that he says?" They are now saying 'performance'. Then they were saying other things. The social dividend of 2016 was impulse? Was the social dividend of 2017 impulse? Common sense says that a society has suffered too much, has fallen below the poverty line, because it has gone billions of cards abroad, because some when they win - these hundred families - were leaving money normally. Now we can't do that. How much more can we just say? What is left over, yes, shares with the weak and will continue to be done for a long time. I'm glad and I want to raise a point. I heard the Minister saying about the three thousand ninety-seven in "Help at Home". It's a part of the social state. The hostages have so far been those who helped. It is permanent and, above all, we challenge publicly to tell us which of these three thousand two hundred ninety-seven will be appointed outside the AACC. One! Do you have to have a bar on the crown to be appointed? Oh, no. We've had a fight for S.H.I.E.L.D., and we'll get to extreme points. No intakes, ever, anywhere outside the ADP. I remember having a lot of mocking for the twenty-five-year-olds. Yeah. Are you hitting unemployment when the employer knows he's going to hire a young child whose unemployment at this age is huge? He once touched 60 percent. It's gone, but it's too big. Was it 50% in the first year and 100% in the second? Is it? Yes or no? Are new people going to work? Will we keep them from leaving the country? How much simpler to say? It is not a dry amendment. What does it say 'hunger wage' for young people? Where and where? This has been abolished. One's the payroll. And this wage, which has already increased for these ages, is a huge incentive for these children, especially for employers. And we still go through what is the fact that at the moment there is the example of the Netherlands or Belgium where you were going and made a tax statement and you never met the curator. Was there a reason to meet him? Why didn't you? I ask you why you did not do so and why the tax office had to have a direct relationship with my own tax declaration. Is it positive or not that there is currently GPS for the handling of mineral oils? Are we late? It's been three years? I agree with this criticism, but for you, it has been thirty. Why didn't you? It's happening in this bill. And we've still had a lot of criticism. How would the second evaluation pass? How would there have been a debt arrangement if we hadn't really signed? We've been hearing about the reduction in wages that never took place and never will. What we were listening about then is not said to be a deficit. No, EFKA works well, a lot of funds have been unified, and at the moment I would say that with mathematical accuracy, late but stable unemployment is falling. And you know very well that that means contributions, it means that the retired person is funded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not want to say any more about the bill, but I think it is very important that I deal with some others that are topical. How much time do I have, Mr. President? I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u20	How much time do you have? Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u21	Just?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u22	Plus a bonus for you especially.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u23	What happened in France we all live through it every day. Some forgot there the social state, some had stayed in the talk. The social state is not charity, it is an incentive to develop. There is no way of developing a society if a large part of it is in austerity. It took them a while, it took some time to figure it out. I think McCron will make more retreat. I don't see it negative, I see it positive. I also believe that what has been done in Britain has also been the result of a wrong way of doing so. And you're talking about a man who's a Europeanist, so I don't get wrong. Some people in the European Union have misunderstood their role. And I'm with those who want Great Britain to stay. Sixty personalities signed a paper. Udo Bullman is among them. I welcome it. And still recently the issue of immigration to Marrakesh has been raised. There are some fifteen countries that have not signed. One hundred and sixty-four signatures. Will anyone finally realize that they earn four, five and suffer an entire continent? I am saying this and I conclude, Mr President. I don't want to have time for you. I was very impressed by the fact that 50 economists, politicians and historians gathered together and made a terrible proposal. - on how to combat poverty, immigration, climate change and the democratic deficit in the European Union. Pickettie's first, but he's not alone. It is a great impression that this proposal to maintain, not to break up the European Union. We believe it can be a pole right now with corrective moves and the emblem will be: "Forget the rich!" There can't be few people picking up wealth. It can't be done. This story has to be stopped. McCrone collects it in his lap and others will be able to collect it later. It is something that is not being done in small Greece at the moment. Let some people take it for granted that it's not possible in small Greece. Oh, no! The social state is a reference point and not for the sake of charity, for essential reasons. It is proposed that the European Union's new budget be EUR 800 billion. If one reads the proposal of these fifty, it will indeed be impressed. It is no accident - and I conclude with this - that GUARDIAN was the head of this proposal, 'LE MONDE' in France, 'SPIEGEL' in Germany and 'REPUBLICA' in Italy. I believe that our country is also starting a new day. Some people don't want to make a decision, they don't want to understand it. The choice of inertia for voting reasons has stopped. It proves this, and the constitutional review and the issues of a church - and many others - that I believe will be implemented sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Pappas, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2011, the possibility of exchanging documents from public bodies has been established by electronic means, as has been established, and the possibility of obtaining electronic signatures from public officials. It has been proved, firstly, that the possibility of doing this in itself will not make this work universally applicable, because the years have passed and it has also been shown that fragmentation and case-law on digital policy are a brake on the universal application of these solutions. I am pleased to be able to inform the House that the tender for the electronic movement of documents has been completed in the public sector. This is a huge task, which will interconnect twenty-thousand public bodies among themselves and give public officials, public officials a hundred and fifty-thousand digital signatures. Already, for about a year in the Ministry of Digital Policy, the system has been fully implemented. The study published, Mr President, in relation to the effectiveness we will have since the completion of this project, is a study by IOBE, which says that we will have a total savings of EUR 380 million a year from the universal implementation of electronic document handling and the adoption of administrative acts by the public, in an exclusively electronic way. I think this study underestimates the positive effects of the universal application of this technology for the public. We are recommending today to the House - and I thank the Minister responsible for accepting the amendment - the extension for six months for the public bodies of the obligation to exchange documents exclusively in a digital manner and the sole obligation to issue their administrative acts in an electronic way. In my opinion, this is a truly fundamental reform that will make the public even more effective and redefined, I would say, and the relationship between the public and the citizen. I would like to call on all the governments of Parliament to welcome this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras, rapporteur for the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good opportunity, as I see many ministers here in the ministerial chairs - you are also the co-legislative ministers present - to do some work, to resolve one, two important issues. Today, it should not be a protagonist of this draft law or a pension cut. We, Potami, as we know, did not vote the twice that you voted for, made the state's cuts in pensions law with the medium-term and before the Katrugalu law. We did not vote for them, so we do not need to 'vote' anything. It should be today, ladies and gentlemen, the hero of this draft law, the protagonist being to reduce VAT from 13% to 6% for all the necessary aids from the heavyly mobile disabled, such as bed mattresses, lifting machines, artificial members. We should certainly be discussing this measure today. You're doing it for the white spades. You're reducing the VAT from 13% to 6%. That is not enough, however. For wheelchairs and artificial members, I told you and the committees. A simple wheelchair, manual, costs 2.550 euros on the market. The fund, EEAY justifies 1.050 euros. The rest puts them out of his pocket, the disabled, our disabled fellowman has increased needs. He pays a lot more money for his everyday life. So we should be discussing VAT reduction today from 13% to 6% for all the necessary helps of the disabled. Mrs Papanatsiou told me that some time in the future we will see it. I say the future is here in the present. If we have to do something quickly, this is one of these measures. As I told you, the cancellation of the additional cuts, which would apply from 1 January 2019, with twice the adoption of relevant laws by SYRIZA - ANEL, us, on the river, is hardly our concern. We have never voted for these cuts, we do not need to 'vote' anything. It is good, however, that you keep low tons and do not come out celebratingly to talk about social sensitivity, canceling a bad measure that you alone have achieved. I would remind you that so far with the Katorugalou Act and its follow-up, we have the following reductions and reductions of the CSR, the main pension, the supplementary pension, increased health contributions from 2% to 6%, the tax rates increased while the tax deduction from medical expenses was abolished. Add next to the VAT 24% that you increased to thousands of products and see how any retired person's pension is reduced by the retired's retired's retirement of the other contributions and charges caused by your own SYRIZA Government - ANEL. The economic environment is what we are all living for, and we must in no way underestimate it or overestimate it, but to see its true dimensions. Two and a half million people, two and a half million of our fellow citizens have a debt of up to 500 euros in tax and are unable to repay it. They're not scumbags. They in no way want to save 500 euros and not have the opportunity to tax information, not to have a thousand other possibilities and of course have a state that says "I will open the account to you, I will commit you any amount that moves in your accounts for the fulfillment of your debt". The maximum EUR 500 owes two and a half million Greeks today to the tax office and they cannot pay it back! This is the answer and the picture of the measures of overtaxation, or if you want part of the surplus. May I also remind you that banks since 2014 have lost 97% of their value? Let me remind you that the investments that Mr Chakaloto said would be so much that we wouldn't know what to do with them and should have put filters to sort them out have now been evaporated? Official figures of the Ministry of Finance for 2018 say we have less than 7.8% fallen investments compared to 2017. What are we talking about? Let us say that on the basis of the information from the 'ERGAN', in October, when we were passed a month and a half ago, there were a hundred and twenty thousand jobs lost? Let's say 62% of the new recruits are part-time and six hundred three thousand Greeks and Greeks are paid with a mixed monthly salary of EUR 378? Where is the upset, where is the revolution when we talked about the generation of 700 euros? Now you have brought the generation of 378 euros! I am also coming to comment on some of the individual articles - as we discussed them in the committees - which want an arrangement and I will end with the amendments. First of all, Article 54 proposes and provides that there will be a fine of EUR 500 per check for cash machines that are approved but not declared, in essence 'black'. We say that 500 euros per check is nothing. More stringent and heavier penalties, such as foreclosure of the machine, withdrawal of the licence and determination of this act as tax fraud, are needed. I come to Rule 57, which has been debated very much. It is the article on mass bank data collection by the Independent Public Income Authority. So here I ask: is it compatible with the provisions of the European General Data Protection Regulation, as we say? It is important to know this because the personal information collected by the AACC will be kept in its own files, in its own database, and it will be able to obtain information from all over the place, from banks, from other bodies, from other bodies, for loans, accounts, payments and investment products. Furthermore, with regard to Article 61, we have discussed it for the extension of the period of general limitation on taxes and fines. We will have a loss of taxes that are not specified. Mrs Papanatsiou has replied to the committees that the issue will be resolved when the chapter on electronics is made. When will the capital segment become electronic? You said it's hard to do and it's within the targets. Is there a timeframe? You have to tell us that this year this system will be ready? I'm also going to Article 73. I told you again about the possibility of rewarding cash prizes at the Independent Public Revenue Authority, that we need to know whether there is an evaluation system, what criteria are, what the awards are and what the financial amount is through which good officials can be rewarded. In addition, with regard to Articles 81 and 82 for concessions of public property without consideration to municipalities and to the Ministry of Civil Protection, I also told the committees that it was a proper measure. The properties that are left untapped by the public must be attributed to the municipalities. However, there should also be a plan by the municipalities, as well as a final date for such performance. Here you say that if, in five years' time, the property that the public will give to a municipality remains untapped, it will return to the public with the signature of the Ministry of Finance. And I'm telling you, why not just yourself? Why should the Treasury Minister sign the return of the land that has not been used by the municipalities? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So here I come to ask myself about the provision of 19,000 sqm. in the Municipality of Sfakion - Mr. Polakis, in your home country, in Chania - for the construction and operation of a waste and waste management project and the construction of an environmental park. I had asked the Minister to tell me this: The Municipality of Sfakion what he plans to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u28	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u29	You'll tell me. There is provision for funding and what does the environmental park mean? I wish it would. I have come to Sfakia in infinite times and have presented these areas since "Memen Greece" twice. It's an untapped place yet. But I want to know if it's all done on a schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u30	Everything for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u31	We'll see. I wish! In five years' time I hope we will see that there will really be use of the space and the land paid. I now come to some amendments. In the amendment to grant monthly insurance contributions from private sector employees up to twenty-five years old. Here, then, the state actually grants the insurance contribution by 6.67% on the gross wage. I say that what has occasionally been done, a project with a programme and objective, a permanent reduction in insurance contributions, instead of the state subsidising insurance contributions occasionally. I have a few questions for the amendment in the regulations for the National Central Health Procurement Authority. In discussing the draft law at the time that provided for the establishment of the EAEC, we said that, of course, the supplies must be made centrally, there will obviously be an economy of scale and expenditure, but so far we know that since the adoption of that draft law until now the EAEC has been in temporary administration. Is it subordinated and I ask if the EMCDDA is able to undertake the additional amount of work that this amendment gives it? In other words, hospitals also serve organizations such as EEAY, IFET, and if we put the medicine on, we are talking about 60% to 70% of the annual supplies of the health system. Mr. Poppas is gone. I would like to ask him two specific questions. I would also like to ask the question of Amendment No 1842, by which the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction gives an extension of six months to the secondments of civil servants which expire on 31 December. They were given another extension and this is another extension. We had then voted 'no' and we will vote again 'no' and now. It's over with extensions! A comprehensive plan is needed for both the public sector and the country in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the ministers will be aware and bring today an amendment to reduce VAT from 13% to 6% for all the aids that a disabled person has to have in order to serve his daily life. This seems to be the social state and not the SYRIZA - ANEL - 'We are finally voting for what we had voted on twice to cut pensions'. So we remain in the reserve. The part of the directive that is in the draft law will also be voted in favour of it in the other articles, you will see the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u32	We will continue with the Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, who has the floor to present his amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, we have an amendment from the Ministry concerning an issue relating to the review of medicinal products and other procedural matters which need to be regulated by the end of the year. The main point is that we are taking a first step in reforming the Memorandum of Understanding, which concerned the pricing policy of medicines. The first step is that we recommend that an old-drug price card be issued only once a year. Price sheets for new medicines will continue to be published every quarter, i.e. four times a year, but the revaluation will take place once, as is done in most European countries and not twice a year, as was the case with this whole Memorandum. We believe that this creates a more stable environment for all those involved in the market and enables the National Medicines Agency, which is responsible for re-evaluation, to have a margin of time to organise better and process this process. That's the one thing. We have discussed this and presented it to the Intergroup of Parliament for Pharmaceutical Policy. Indeed, if I remember correctly, there was a general acceptance by many political forces and we invite you to vote in favour of it. The second is that this review once a year will also cover the issue of a new price sheet for non-prescribed medicinal products, non-registered medicinal products, for which, despite the fact that valuation has been abolished for over a year and a half, a retail index is still issued. That is why, instead of twice a year, it will also be done for them once a year. The third element concerns the medicine. As far as hospital medicinal products are concerned, we provide for the possibility of setting up individual closed budgets per therapeutic category or per drug. We are doing this mainly on the basis of the need to demarcate the budget for blood derivatives, in which, as many people know, there is an international problem of shortage at this time. Given that it is a sensitive category, there are various productive problems in countries with blood derivatives units. This creates a difficulty in meeting the needs of the market in good time. So we want to have a demarcated budget. I think this helps to make it safer to meet the needs of very sensitive groups of patients, who absolutely need access to these derivatives. These are the three elements of the amendment concerning the medicine. There is the question of extending the autonomous organisation and operation of the National School of Public Health. This is pending until the adoption of a Presidential Decree. The Presidential Decree has not been issued, and we are now extending the current regime in which the National School of Public Health is a body supervised and financed by the Ministry of Health. We therefore ensure that the staff of the National School of Public Health are well funded and paid for next year. We also extend until their revision the current geographical boundaries of the health regions. There's a conversation going on. We have a draft law on the institutional reorganisation of the ESS, and there will be a provision there to see the geographical boundaries of the health regions again. All seven today will be raised, nine. There is also a proposal for an administrative disconnection of certain hospitals. I think after the holidays we will be able to present all this. Until then, the current limits, which the previous regulation expired at the end of the year, have been extended. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I come to something last. We are also able to issue bodies to legal persons supervised by the Ministry of Health by means of a joint ministerial decision and not by a Presidential Decree. This also expired at 31/12-2018 and we allow it to be extended. Next year we will have the opportunity, after the new framework for the agencies has been passed, to go through the more flexible and rapid process of adopting joint ministerial decisions and not presidential decrees, which we know to be very timely. There is also a parliamentary amendment, which we consider to be appropriate and necessary, and we propose to the relevant Minister to accept. It has been filed by three SYRIZA MPs and concerns dentistry clubs, the operation of the Greek Dentistry Federation, where their term of three years is four years, as has already been done for medical clubs, the Panhellenic Medical Association and the lawyers and other scientific associations in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to say something about this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Amyra, wait. Well, although the Minister spoke and given that there was a list given by the government and the name of Mr Polakis, I will give him the floor for three minutes, with a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is another amendment with a general number of 1839 and a special 158, which concerns arrangements to facilitate the work of the National Central Authority for Health Procurement. In these arrangements: Firstly, the term of office of the Board of Directors currently in existence is extended until the completion and appointment of a new management board. Invitation has been made, the 64 EPA of 2018. Candidates have been filed, they're in the process. Just because it won't be done until 31-12-2018, which is why we're giving the extension. Secondly, until the Presidential Decree is adopted - which, as you know, is a very time-consuming procedure for the organisation of the National Central Health Procurement Authority - we give the possibility of prolonging, employees can be seconded by other departments of the Ministry or other health bodies in order to facilitate the work of the committee. Thirdly, we give hospitals the opportunity for a number of competitions that are centralised and until their completion can make their own tenders. Because I would like to tell you that after a lot of trouble we have finished four major drug competitions, which lead to a total savings of EUR 20 million per year for a large category of active substances used in hospitals and for which we will give EUR 20 million less per year, after the completion of these tenders. We also resolve a number of issues relating to the Services Council, which, until the agency's issue, incorporate the officials of the Ministry of Health's Staff Board. We've been completing the oldest health body supply programs since previous years. We only allow them to use the ones that have been open to economic tenders. The rest will now go on the basis of the annual budgets of the hospitals. We are prolonging the possibility of funding the EMAS by the Ministry of Health and including it in the Department of Development, Organisation and Operation of Nursing Units. They are arrangements that facilitate the project. I will abuse your patience, Mr President, because I must respond to a point - it is my moral obligation - that has also been raised by Mr Amyras, which concerns me as well because of my previous term of office. First of all, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, for Article 82 of this bill. Under Articles 81 and 82, the Ministry of Finance grants a number of properties to municipalities in the country and to the Ministry of Civil Protection. One of these properties is an area large at the exit of the Gorge of Samaria in Agia Romoli Sfakion. There will make the biological cleansing of Chora Sfakion, as will a number of other activities, parks, sports fields, etc. This is a story that has started since 2013, Mr Amyras. We've studied it since then. With funding of the study by the Region of Crete. I was the mayor there. We did everything. We found out where the biological cleansing of the two levels is going to take place, i.e. in the solid tanks and after the filters, water will be used to water them next door, we have found the land, and finally we find that what was the Community, as they were saying at the time, and that the works of the tanks had been done before, was not the municipality. And there is the beginning of a Teaching, which Mrs Papanatsiou has solved. We didn't solve it even the last time New Democracy ruled, we didn't solve it in the first two years because we didn't know where this plot was. Is he in ETA? Is he at the Public Building Company? Is he anywhere else? In the end, we have found that, because of the NATURA region, it belongs to the Ministry of Finance. To see the poorness of this state, which was built, we made four years to clear up whose land is. And it's the Ministry of Finance. Because once, he says, PPC cut off an invoice for the helmet at the State Building Company, the Public Building Company considered it to be itss. That's where we arrived! Anyway, that's clear. Things are ready. The funding exists underneath it to be made. And after you've gone, let me tell you that Paleohora's biologicalist was also called in St. Romoli. If you remember, in my first speech in the House, I said that fourteen years he was in the U.S....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u37	But close it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u38	I'm closing, Mr. President. It's just a big wound down there, which was finally solved. We have a beautiful area where the funding was available, there were studies, and for secondary reasons the projects could not be implemented. Now the projects are being implemented! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for a minute to ask Mr. Xanthos your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthi, the dental clubs, I assume, are in agreement with the extension of their term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u41	It's their suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u42	It's their suggestion. It was also abolished, as far as I can see, the commitment that the ten members should be from Attica, right? The regional associations are therefore being strengthened. That's what I wanted to ask, to be sure I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u43	Good. You got the answer. We're done. So we move on to close the circle of speakers, with my colleague from the Centro-Central Association, Mr Cavadela. My colleague's away. I'm not erasing him. To conclude with the amendments by the Ministers, I give the floor to Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos for five minutes. Minister, from your position you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall be speaking on the amendment to the 'Help at Home' amendment, for which the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alexis Haritsis, has already been placed in detail. Let me just add that this amendment is very important, within the overall measures announced by the Prime Minister and already being implemented, in support of medium and low incomes, but also of the social state in general and of fair growth. I would stress that it is of particular importance, because it is institutionalised and made a institution stable with permanent officials, a well-established agency such as "Help at Home" in the municipalities. At the same time, the job insecurity and hostage which had thousands of workers for eighteen years expired. In order to draw up this provision, it has of course been taken into account the existing legal framework in force, but at the same time the need to have a stable staff with experience and also the main priority of this period, after the memoranda, to record and meet the basic needs of the public. This is also our compass in our recruitment planning, now that we are able to have more choice and more political choice, with the application of rule 1 to 1 and within the framework of the financial area next year. This procedure operates fully transparently and therefore all the conditions set out in the AACC notice are recorded in the amendment. We have chosen with my colleague, Minister of Interior, Mr Alexis Haritsis, not to be authorised by the House for a joint ministerial decision, precisely so that there is a clear record in the order of all the procedures, moleculation and the conditions which will be set out in the notice of the AACC, which will be adopted at the beginning of the year. We believe that in 2019 the “Help at Home” programme will now be able to continue to develop and serve families in need throughout Greece. If I may, Mr President, say a few words about the other amendment that we have tabled, which concerns the possibility of extending the secondments which expire at the end of December for six months, until 28 June 2019. As we are, Mr President, in the implementation of the second cycle of mobility - and we will be in this transitional phase for the next few months - and for the proper functioning of public services, we therefore propose that this House should give the possibility where there are genuine service needs - in the way in which it is recorded and the procedure laid down by the amendment - to allow this extension until 28 June 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleague, please tell Mr Cavaldela to come, because the third word will be deleted. In order to avoid questions and complaints from colleagues, you should be aware that the first eight speakers are always independent of their inclusion, on the basis of an article of the Rules of Procedure, by each party. Some colleagues came and complained. We have no eight here today, we have seven, because there was no independent. Then we keep up in the order you've enrolled. So the first speaker from SYRIZA will be Mr Christos Karagiannides for five minutes, after Mrs Papanatsiou who wants the floor for some legislative improvements. Mrs. Papanatsiou, you don't have to tell them in detail, because you're going to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President, I will only need a minute. I shall refer only to a few dates requested by representatives of operators. As regards Article 48, it shall be ‘until 31-32019’ and in cases (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 4 ‘similarly compensated from the entry into force of this Part’. The rest because they share will be able to be studied by all the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u47	Good. They're going to shoot and share. Mr. Karayannides, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with a very good statement made by Mr.Mitsotakis in May 2017: "Mr. Tsipras pledged that in 2019 and 2020 measures of EUR 3.6 billion will be taken. We know that. It's definitely. We are not getting away with it because it is voting and having its own seal and signature. At the same time, it comes up and says that there will be some countermeasures if we manage to achieve some excessively high targets." This sound statement was made in 2017. So today we are in the unpleasant position of you not to take the measures and vote for the countermeasures, as is the case lately. In this respect, therefore, the part of the countermeasures is also the non-cutting of pensions, which has been achieved because we have told the institutions from the outset that it is an anti-development measure, that it is not structural and that it is a measure of austerity. Thanks to our efforts and the government's performance in finance, this non-cutting is now possible. What was heard by the Opposition? Indeed, the Vice-President of the New Democracy had also fought Mr Moscovici for spoiling the soup and he cannot do the New Democracy programme, because if he does not pass this measure, what are you going to say now? The second thing you tried to do is say that this thing was unnecessary. I have to tell you something the whole country knows, that you have handed over an insurance system with a black hole from here to Andromeda, that is with economic elements with which there was virtually no insurance system, it had collapsed. Today we have an insurance system which can be subsidised and may not cut off pensions and may also grant the insurance contributions of young people up to 25 years of age, which is another amendment to positive measures. Why is that so? Because I must remind you that by 2014 unemployment at ages 18 to 25 was 60%. No one hired and no one wanted to hire young people at that time. We have reached these children with 60% unemployment. What did you do about it? Nothing, as usual. So today we are looking forward to a positive response to the unemployment we are looking forward to offering even more to what young people hope in Greece, to find jobs when they finish their studies, or to find jobs, even if they have not done their studies. Another amendment which is also positive - and we are waiting for your answer to that - is 'Help at Home'. People who, for 15 or twenty years, have simply fooled them and changed the name of this programme to get money from Europe, have come to be bound every time of any government in promises. So this is being solved today and solved in the best possible way, with an effort by all these people to find the place they deserve and according to the offer they have had all these years in society. We hope that you will also see this amendment positively and vote for it. But I'm closing up with a cleverness called insurance, because the way I started, I want to close. It's the following. I am addressing the side of the Democratic Partnership, the Change Movement or whatever you want: Who has built up the reserves for the insurance funds? Who's been working overnight with the PSI on the insurance funds reserves? Who led the insurance system to the cliff in any case? And while you've cut two pensions of pensioners, Christmas gift, Easter gift and allowance, and while you've done all this, you're coming now with a huge amount of honors to tell us that we're cutting pensions. In fact, it appeared in the committees and a gentleman carrying the ADED seal to tell us with his own alchemys that the Katraugalu Act cuts 300 euros. I would like this gentleman, because he is good with the numbers, to tell me what percentage of the participation of ADEDY was at her last strike. You have reduced the trade union movement and you cannot make a single advance strike. With 1% and 2% you don't represent anyone. I am referring to the trade unions in the ADED. No one is represented. In fact, you said that the trade union representatives came and complained or criticised this. What exactly do these gentlemen represent? Let's go out today and count these people's beans, let's see what we're talking about. Here, then, the government is much ahead of the trade union movements, because there is no trade union movement. It is much ahead to serve the social needs of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u49	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Amarousi High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Metarakis, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are cultivating the illusion, gentlemen of the government, that you have just received it while the truth is that you are just handing over. For a month you have been paralyzing from the Step of the House, Ministers, MPs, the Prime Minister himself, and you have been comfing for supposed achievements of your government. It characterizes you as such inequitable to accuse the New Democracy of denial of reality. In the face of the irrationality of your words, we insist that we speak with evidence, not obviously to hear them, but because the Greek people are listening to us, who know what they are experiencing every day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that in 2014, according to the European Commission figures, the Greek insurance system had balanced. There was no need for new cuts. Unemployment was already beginning to deviate from the third quarter of 2013. And what did you do? First you maintained all the cuts in the first memoirs. You fully integrated them into your budgetary and insurance policy. You recognised in the budget reports the positive effect of the PSI on public finances, but you proceeded to unnecessarily new steps. With the third Memorandum you brought measures of nearly 10 billion euros and caused, with the loss of the state's assets in the banks, the biggest loss of property for the Greek State in the history of the modern Greek state. You increased contributions and reduced pensions twenty times. You made the Katrugalu law and established the personal difference. We remind you of this law, we did not vote for it. You voted in 2017 to cut the personal difference. And that law, New Democracy didn't vote for him. With the medium-term, in May 2018, you reaffirmed the cut. Again, the New Democracy has not voted for it. You rejected both the amendments by the New Democracy and the other parties on the protection of personal differences. Are you coming today and canceling a small place, some of your own measures, the result of your inability to manage public finances, and you want to tell you and thank you? Neither we retired people nor the workers tell you thank you, because if you were not anyone would know what personal difference it means. That was not the concept. You created it. With the latest bills you bring, you're going back before your final departure. Retreat initially to the irrational contributions of the Katrugalo Law to free professionals. We talked about it in the Chamber and you were mocking us back then. You didn't hear what production Greece told you. You have, however, changed the basis of calculation since 2019, the way in which these contributions are calculated, so that any benefit of your retreat does not reach the pocket of the free professionals. You are now turning back to personal disparity, your institution, but only to old pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, all new pensioners now receive their pensions shortened, slashed as a result of the change made to the insurance system by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. There are no personal differences between young pensioners and today's workers who are now in doubt whether, with your own system, they will receive decent pensions. According to the budget, 220,000,000 euros were given less for pensions in 2018. You predict that for 2019 you will give EUR 400,000,000 less pensions. This is the footprint of your own policy on the new pensioners. And of course you are deleting - we will see you tomorrow in the budget - all the great countermeasures that you have advertised to the Greek people. Last week the Undersecretary brought some examples of pensions to the committee - eight examples - that suit him. But he told us nothing about the 2.5 million pensions that now have a positive personal difference and therefore the new pensioners of the same categories will see their own pensions reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, stop celebrating. The damage you've done for four years in the country is incalculable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak from my position as the speaking time is limited to five minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the regulation brought about by the Government in relation to the reduction of insurance contributions, horizontal and percentage, but also with regard to the cancellation of the provision which provided for the reduction of the personal difference from 1-1-2019 is the absolute confession of the failure and the intriguingness of the Katrugalo Law. It is a law that cuts pensions and at the same time imposes high social security contributions on young people, who, despite their horizontal reduction, are subject to the same logic of direct connection to incomes. This law has no prospect. This law has no viability. It is a law that is not corrected and that is why we have proposed the redefinition of the insurance system, the redefinition of new proportional studies and, of course, a change of perception of resources. Our top proposal is to change the character of the superstition, which, instead of selling out public property, must be followed by the Greekisation of its administration to exploit this property to the benefit of the insurance and pension system. We are therefore coming today to vote on the abolition of a law by the SYRIZA - ANEL. We will do so not only because this provision and this cut were unnecessary, but because since July we have tabled our own proposal for a law which the government has anticipated. Instead of bringing this proposal to Parliament - in Greece, to discuss, to submit their own proposals to the other parties and to move with a large majority on this new field of insurance - he was negotiating with the 'alpha' and the 'beam' as if from 20 August and then our dependence on the loan contract has not been formally over. He's still in the same pattern. He used to play the trustee's role, and without a mandate he no longer does. No, gentlemen. I think that today it turns out that we could really have done that since July. We have drawn up concrete proposals which we are bringing here in this House either with a proposal for a law or amendments to help change this situation, which is reflected by an economy that is being drawn up, by an economy that is unable to produce new wealth and, of course, by continuing and austerity for many, austerity for the weak and the lack of new opportunities for young people. Many of our proposals are discussed every day in the panels, in the windows, except that they do not come for debate here in the House. The Government refuses to discuss everything it can bring about. So we also have a deficit in relation to the application of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, which obliges us once a month to discuss a proposal for a law. We have said this on several occasions. It's called the Constitution, and the Rules of Parliament are laid down in the Constitution. So let me say that, with the proposal for a law that we tabled on 13 November, we had a comprehensive proposal to upgrade the 'Help at Home' programme, a flagship programme for our resignation, since it was and was the most successful social protection programme for the weak, the elderly, the disabled, all those in need of it. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal which really concerns the new period and needs to be met through an upgraded 'Help at home' programme and the government is coming today - and we welcome it - to adopt, if I may say in quantitative terms, 80% of our proposals. It is the basic philosophy that primary selfgovernment is the one that must and can implement social policies. The government has abandoned its perception of creating a state agency, and that is what I believe was a success both of ours, but also of the workers and of the self-government that would not allow this to happen, that is, the re-government of the implementation of social policies, because planning must be at national level. And here there is a deficit, no central unit, a central structure for planning and implementation. However, I welcome the fact that in 2013, when I took over to the Ministry of Labour, in my capacity as State Secretary, responsibility for the 'Help at Home' programme, we also reversed the negative political choice that existed until then, and indeed with Law 41999 and Law 42077, we enabled self-government to continue to implement it. And today it is time, with the vote on our own - and we stress it - that this programme should be upgraded, that workers be guaranteed and that we move forward in the future. So I conclude with two more proposals that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Kegeroglu, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u54	I'm finishing my sentence. We have therefore tabled three amendments for disabled people, concerning their support for health, education, VAT exemption in all the means they need and, of course, our proposal to change, at last, the shameful provision concerning the pensions of people who lose their partner, widows and widows. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Ilias Cassidyris has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u56	Today we are talking about another major political fraud by SYRIZA, Article 1 on the allegedly non-reduction of pensions. What's the trick? What's the deception? There is an extremist criminal policy, a criminal, murderous provision for pensioners, which was not even a requirement of international turmoil, was not a Memorandum requirement. You've even exceeded the PASOK and New Democracy in subjection to the jewels of loan sharks and national betrayal, of course. Because we are now seeing the show, we are seeing the theatre of national treason with the ANELs looking to find a way to support SYRIZA's ethnic-progressive government in order to move forward with the ill-conscious Ambassadors' agreement. And here I denounce both Tsipras and, of course, Kammenos - who has evolved in the largest legacy - for Macedonia's national treason. So SYRIZA institutionalises murder measures against retired people and comes here electionally and takes them back. This is a trick, it's a boom. Of course, the lousy, anti-social law of Katrugalu remains, don't fool the world. All these measures that you have taken against the people's social strata, against the poor citizens, remain. Karugalos once said he was a communist from his fifteenth and had said very well, because that is communism. It's the disaster for poor citizens, it's the disaster for the homeland. And we all remember, of course, what the end of all the communist leaders throughout Europe was, with a more classic example, the end of the Tsaucescu, your partner, who paid you the paper on "AGE" for many years. The Memorandum is here, the Memorandum remains here. It is the absolute failure of SYRIZA to pursue this policy of impoverishment. It doesn't come out on the markets, of course, Greece, as you advertised. There is no way with these interest rates that Greece will come out on the markets. You have advertised a pillow of some billions, which you certainly ate to make benefits. But what benefits, to whom? That is a very big question. Who are those who get these benefits? Who's going to get the social dividend you're advertising on the channels? Because there have been over a million and a half applications for social dividends and nine hundred thousand have been approved. Who's going to get the dividend? Is the honest Greek citizen, who makes a true statement of income and tell him he loses it for 15 euros? Is the pensioner who gets a pension of EUR 500 and because he happens to have a real estate and pay the bloody HIS, tell him he's losing the dividend? Is the unemployed person who, because he has no money to pay rent, lives with his parents and is he considered a guest and loses the dividend? A few Greeks will get the dividend. The dividend will be received by the Albanian, who is in Elbasan and sells drugs, and here, of course, in Greece declares zero income and goes with the stolen "MERCEDES" and gets the dividend. The dividend will be received by Roma, whoever lives from the benefits, who's in the unbaptised, who's doing illegality and robbing and selling guns and drugs. You don't touch him. He will go with the stolen "BMW" and he will also get the dividend. The Greek man, the victim of this policy, the suckler for SYRIZA, the Greek man who makes a true statement of income will not get the dividend. Here, in this country, Greece, there is really - and I denounce it from this Step - a very tough racism. It is the racism against the Greek citizen who is excluded from social policy and benefits, and at the same time the foreigner who falsely declares refugee, has free accommodation in apartments, free heating, free feeding, card with 400 euros a month and lives richly in our homeland. So there is, in this country, racism, racism against the Greeks, racism against retired people, the poor citizens, whom our fellow citizen experiences every day. Of course, today's piece of legislation, which is a great political fraud, has precisely this aim, namely to deceive the citizen. You have allocated the reduction of pensions without the international loan sharks asking you to come here today and say, supposedly, that this cut will stop and that you are doing something good for the ordinary taxpayer Greek, who has set up this state to live from the benefits, to live from the money that everyone else gives the state through taxation. This disastrous policy for our country is a follow-up to the policy of PASOK and the New Democracy, which led the country to impoverishment, which led the national economy to the ruin. There is at the moment nothing to be spent on developing the economy, which can only come through the primary sector, only by increasing national production. Only if the country's gross national product rises can we talk about hopes for growth in the economy, for the next generations of Greeks to live in that country. None of this is happening. Instead, we have a politically disastrous, continuity of PASOK and New Democracy's policy by the nationalist SYRIZA - ANEL, which destroys society, destroys the Greek economy, betrays Macedonia, betrays our national interests. Only one national government of the People's Association - Golden Dawn will be able to overthrow this corrupt regime, which has been destroying our country for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u57	We will continue as follows. It will close the rotation of colleagues in number five - there were no other parties - with Mr Saridis, then I will give the floor for a minute to Mr Brutsi for a procedural proposal to the Minister and then the list begins. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start my introduction a little paradoxical today, but you will understand my spirit later on. “ General, your tank is a powerful machine. He reaps forests whole and hundreds of people perish. Only he has a flaw: he needs a driver! General, your bomber is too powerful. It flies faster than the wind and the elephant lifts a heavier weight. Only he has a flaw: he needs a pilot! General, man is very useful. He knows how to fly, he knows how to kill. Only he has a flaw: he knows to think!” Ladies and gentlemen, we're selling madness. That's what we're doing! We sell madness to anyone who cares. In the courtyards of our primary schools - and thankfully for the future of this country - there are more serious arguments and more serious dialogues. And since we are selling madness here, and indeed in an organized, collective, group way, I said we should be glad to read some of Breech's 'German War Manual'. I felt this need, I had this inspiration, if you'd like, i.e. to find a way to remind the Chamber that we are addressing thinking people, because we seem to have forgotten about it. We are acting as if we have forgotten that the citizens who are listening to us are capable of thinking on their own, as if we were not in a position to judge what is sound in this Chamber. If we look at one - one thing we have to vote on today - we must admit without underestimating the citizens' intelligence that it is all necessary to maintain social cohesion, that everything is necessary to restore injustices, that everything is in the right direction, but that it is all very little. We also have to admit that none of them were self-evident, that none of them were given, but that none of them were the achievements of the government or of the counter-population. It is the Greek people who obliges us all today to oppose irrationality, not to tolerate new pension cuts for any reason. Who could today argue in favour of pension cuts in a convincing manner? Ladies and gentlemen, above all what we must admit is that this is the only way to reverse the consequences of the memorandums. Only when we are able to agree together on something, only with strong parliamentary majorities, will we be able to change things. Two hundred and twenty-five MPs from five parties were required to become the 'no' 'yes' and to impose the good Memorandums in our country. At least so many, therefore, need to overthrow them, to renegotiate them. From the very first moment we in the Central Association have chosen to highlight the need for unity as the only antidote against the legacy of the monumental austerity policies. So, as you know, we will support this attempt to get a brake, a definitive end to the pit and let it be a little what we are achieving. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said earlier that we are selling madness, and that is why I said this: we are blindly following the path of division or, as we say on remote windows, the way of extreme polarization. Instead of looking all at what we can achieve together, we exchange insults and insults. Instead of going back to tell the citizens that it did play a decisive, catalytic role in the whole case, the unanimity shown by the political forces on the question of pensions, we are sitting on the contrary and fighting about whose idea it was that these pensions should not be cut or who first found that the new cuts would be inappropriate, counterproductive and anti-developmental. Because we are directing to elections and because the various political staff have decided that their electoral tactics will be subjugating dissent, indifferent to the evil caused by their choices, we now end up here in the Chamber here in order to eat each other instead of looking for a common ground to build up the national recovery effort there. Where are we, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the sacrifices of the Greek people, when we do not use them as a basis for understanding, as a basis for national unity, as a lever to overthrow austerity policies? So we sell madness and instead of talking here about what we can achieve together, we are finally talking about what is splitting us apart, we are divided. In this context, I would like to make a comment - and I will close with this - because a lot has heard at least about my face: I will not vote for the Ambassadors' Agreement. I say this again: I will not vote for the Ambassadors' Agreement. And to be sure, then, that some excellent journalists who put questions next to my name and my photo have heard it: I will not vote for the Prespecies Agreement! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It's very important. I therefore ask Parliamentary authors to convey my statement so that my name can no longer be counted on any category other than those who will vote against the lake agreement. I would like to remind you, without wishing to point to your work in terms of at least journalistic research, three undeniable events: Firstly, I was the first Member to speak for the purpose of this year in Parliament on 9 January, analyzing why there cannot be a solution containing the name 'Macedonia' by arguing against and against one - one of the names officially mentioned by Mr Nimic and Mr Kotzias - after two months. Secondly, I have written on major information websites over seven times, explaining why I am going to vote against the agreement. Thirdly, I have spoken seventeen times from the Step forward for my thoughts, my opinions, my beliefs, that, in itself, the name is a tool of insulating, so I will not allow today and in the future any mention of my name for possible participation in the sale of the name of Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a happy day for millions of our fellow citizens. And I'm glad to hear that he's going to be with us this time, and the Chief of Officer's Vice-President - I imagine he will listen to me, and I asked him to be here while I'm here, and I will listen to him - because, you know, just a few days ago, there was no speech he started without mentioning his prediction of the pension cut. I am pleased that we are all together now, because I imagine that there is no Member of the Anti-Population Committee who will not share this pleasure with us to vote 'yes' in all' to another pro-collegiate project that we are bringing to Parliament. Why, when we, ladies and gentlemen, said on 21 August last, that the memorials were finally over after eight years, we did not say so in the air. We had already worked out and prioritised direct interventions so that soon after the end of the programme the bases of the new era would be in place. We have of course had complete knowledge and complete control of the budgetary situation and the necessary area for use, because this is how a serious and responsible government should be. I say this because some in the last few days insist that they do not understand that every step of ours is part of a clear and concrete design and speak of impulsiveness and speak of gifts for Christmas. I am, of course, referring to both the Civic Opposition and its supporters, the media and many other journalists. I find it extremely difficult, in fact, to get into the essence of this absurdity. I would just like to focus on the extremely insulting, in my view, characterisation of deceptiveness. It is insulting not to the government, but to the citizens of this country who have been deprived of basic goods for many years, because some who have been ruling for decades, especially in recent years, have succeeded - because they have succeeded - in dropping the country on the rocks of bankruptcy. And these people saw you vote "yes" only in cuts in their incomes, pensions, cuts that you have brought for many years. And these citizens are coming today to be rewarded for their sacrifices and, therefore, it is unreasonable to talk about impulseism and gifts to the citizens of the greatest need, because these are not gifts, but they are necessary breaths and fair interventions for the world of work, for the world of labor, for the partisans of the biopsy who have seen their pensions sink, unfortunately, along with them to immerse their dignity. We do not, therefore, do any benefits, but we restore the injustices that the harsh and unprecedented austerity of your days has given rise to now, which we safely have the opportunity to do, first of all, to rectify the economy and gradually return to those who have suffered from the crisis and to those who have been deprived for years unjustly. So it would be a good thing for those of you who rupture this candy "a bit of compulsion and gifts" to show some respect not to us, but to these people. I would like to begin, therefore, by putting my position on the bill from the first intervention we bring before Parliament, from intervention in the practical support to people of the third age, from people who are facing movement or other specific problems and who are either living alone, who cannot cope with their needs or their family is faced with an objective impossibility to provide them with full care. So we are continuing today, as I announced in September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, to recruit three thousand two hundred employees for the "Help at Home". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are permanent staffing positions that will be covered through APAs and allocated to the structures of the municipalities throughout the country and the notice will be made immediately and with a view to identifying the maximum extent the service and the experience. And I would say that this is an act of responsibility, both vis-à-vis our fellow citizens who have an absolute need for the care that this programme provides, but also with regard to workers who, for eighteen years, have been doing valuable social work and who are in the air, with contracts covered by either ESDP programmes, special accounts or other sources of funding. So this is over today. Permanent staff, stable jobs, substantial upgrade of a program that provides social care to thousands of our fellow people. So this is not, in the sense that you consider it to be a gift, but it is a key social intervention. Nor is it an option to swell the state, as you have complained to us. My second point concerns the new generation, young people and young people up to twenty-five years old, which, especially in the years of the crisis, experienced the hard person of exploitation at work and even experienced this hard person and with the booby of the law. Of course, I am talking about the interventions which have led to the deregulation of the labour market, but I am mainly talking about the shameful status of the underpaid wage, this unacceptable wage discrimination against the new generation. And on this point, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to say something to you because you have recently suffered a very serious blow and not at the edge of your speech, but it was written. I'd forgive you, like tens of others, if it wasn't so outrageous for a generation that you, you, forced her to work for pocket money, forced her to work uninsured, with a lower wage and no elementary labour rights. You said, therefore, by tweeting: 'Young people do not think they will ever get a pension, so often they choose - take care of the phrase - to work without insurance.' Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis, no young man in our country chooses to work uninsured. He's got to work uninsured. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And he is forced, because his employer had never seen the auditor of the Labour Inspectorate and apparently felt the comfort of imposing the worst possible conditions on his worker, without any cost. She is being forced because she lives in a country where you led her to the first two memoranda years of youth unemployment up to twenty-five years of age to 60%. And, of course, when youth unemployment is at 60%, any chance it has in front of it will catch it from the hair and even the last job opportunity, with the elementary reward. It is necessary, because when he lives in a country such as the one that you have been running for years, that the government abolishes collective bargaining and imposes the law of the jungle on the labour market, obviously no young person feels the slightest protection on the part of the state against employers' arbitrary. So I would suggest that you do not baptize your own political cynicism as a choice for young people. Besides, your things are well known. It is known that the damage you have done to an entire generation, to tell us today with courage, I would say, is an option for young people to work uninsured. We, on the other hand, have tried all these years, at the same time as the hard and difficult attempt to repair the Greek economy, to work with design and methodicity, so that we can change this picture, this situation of the extreme labour exploitation experienced by young people and young people in our country. Now, the Labour Inspectorate, you know, is not a sign. There are real checks and fines. The offenders are aware of this because they are already paying dearly. Undeclared and undeclared work in our country over the last three years has fallen from 20% to 20%, and this is an important conquest. In workplaces where working hours had become 'tired', eight hours have become normal because of frequent controls, and this is an important conquest of our own government, which wants to stand next to the people of the labour, young people and young people working in difficult conditions. And we continue on the same course. We are abolishing the underpaid wage, which will reach the height of the new general minimum wage in the next period. Today we are enacting the grant of 50% of the insurance contributions for the main pension paid by employers for young workers up to the age of twenty-fifths, thereby stating our practical support for young people and young people in the wage earner's work, while sending out a clear signal to those employers, who may reasonably be concerned about the upcoming increase in the minimum wage and we tell them that there is no cause for concern, even when the increase in wages means a direct positive impact on private consumption. So there is no concern about the competitiveness of the economy and no alibi at the same time, since the state undertakes to subsidise half the contributions of young workers. No alibi for those who want to maintain a deep anti-social exploitation regime for thousands of young people and young people in our country. But I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in today's sitting the eyes of most people who see us and the ears of those who listen to us are on the title of the bill we are discussing today. And the title is "Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions". I know, indeed, that there are many of them who will rub their eyes under this title. I am not referring, of course, to the thousands of retired people who will smile today, but to some in and out of the Chamber, who - I have said again - are like the gambler in the roulette who even bets the clothes he wears in the last round. So they pondered what they had and didn't have in black. Finally, he came out red and lost. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have told you, ladies and gentlemen, at every opportunity and in every way: do not be too hasty on pensions. You got raped and invested everything there. As you mentioned - I remind you - invested in the famous cutter and the collapse of the first and second assessments, as you had invested and discounted the fourth memorandum, so you invested almost everything in the pension cut. But when you realise that the negotiations will bring about the desired result for the pensioners, because we had ensured that the objectives were achieved, and all that was left to do was to insist on the International Monetary Fund, then you made an even greater mistake: that you stay stubborn about that logic and insistence. So you have lost not only your predictions, your credibility, but also your political dignity. Friendly to you media wrote in turn for unrestricted application of the measure, later for partial application of the measure, then for postponement and suspension. Others have discovered a barrier to the Eurogroup's plans by the Eurogroup, from the Eurogroup, from Berlin, from the International Monetary Fund that will squeeze the foot, from the institutions that will all be one voice against us. You said it yourself. You heard it yourself. You thought it yourself. In fact, a little earlier, when the prospect of happy, successful developments in Berlin has not yet begun, you have also made a phrase, a back blow, which shows that Germany will press for the implementation of the cuts. As you went, so you came back, empty-handed. But when the Finance Commissioner, Mr Moscovisi, came to the Senate and was wisely placed, he proved, leaving open the possibility of not applying pension cuts, then your executives have been fourteen generations. Amongst these were Mr Hatzidakis, if I am not mistaken, who represented the Civic Opposition at that meeting, but you yourself, Mr Mitsotakis, with your statements immediately afterwards. Not even to mention what the media groups that support you have dragged him. What Symbol you said - well, the'socialist' is going - in spite of Nepal you told him, you showed him to the Commissioner for Finance of the European Commission, because he dared to ruin the account on which you had bet a lot of your political strategy. Today, then, is the day when you have spent your time, but since you have fallen so low, since you have reached that point wishing to reduce pensions to politically capitalise on the drama of our pensioners, our fellow citizens. So it is now time for you, too, to vote with great pleasure in both hands on the abolition of this measure. It is time to say 'yes' and a positive measure. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this development was not at all self-evident that it would happen and not easily happen. In order not to blame more responsibility than the opposition has, it was right at some point that we would not be able to make it, but very wrong and morally and politically, in my opinion, chose to bet on it. I say this because it was a difficult effort, because we worked methodically to prove to our partners that this measure was unnecessary and to get to the present point. I would like, however, to say, regardless of the attitude he has taken, and for which Mr Mitsotakis and the opposition are judged on this matter, to ask and ask each citizen who is listening to us: Are the New Democracy together with PASOK not the parties that, in particular in the first, but in the second memorandum, have equalised pensions with horizontal cuts of up to 50% and a total of EUR 45 billion? Aren't they the ones who begged to apply the measure? Is it not that at every turn they have shown that the views of the International Monetary Fund, which was inspired and imposed by this measure, are they inconsistent with their own views? It's them. So, if we were to fight this battle for a year now, were there a government like the former Republic of New Democracy and PASOK, was there at least the slightest chance that they could have succeeded in abolishing this measure? Not even the slightest chance there was! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You, Mr Mitsotakis, have not only bet on the political benefits of the cuts. The problem with you - and you do not hide it when you are forced to speak programmely - is that you agree ideologically and politically with this measure. You are, after all, the one who in every speech about the insurance system has the need to apply the third pillar of private insurance. And of course, as a government, you were the ones who went bankrupt by creating a terrible situation for their sustainability. You have handed over, I remind you, the insurance funds with a beastly deficit of EUR 1,100,000 and with four hundred thousands of unpaid pensions and a single one. That's the image we've received. And not only have you caused the collapse of the funds, but you have resisted with vigour and the effort we have made, the only essential effort, for a fund that would create a fair and sustainable insurance system. Do you remember what you said when we voted on the new insurance policy, the Katorugalou law, as you baptized it, for which you invented the so-called tie movement, to prove the world's supposed opposition to this reform? What remains of this orchestra, in addition to the continued reproduction of the propaganda on horizontal cuts, the launch of the contributions and the collapse of the funds? What's left is reality. And what does reality show? First, that the proportion of non-wages insured in the first few months of 2018 to pay contributions of up to EUR 200 was 88%, while the corresponding figure in 2006, when the old insurance schemes are still in force, was only 27%. In short, before the law that would allegedly launch the contributions, they paid up to almost three out of ten insured persons, while today, under the new framework, they pay up to EUR 200 9 out of ten. Secondly, the collapsing funds that we received were, at last, consolidated - and the results are impressive. The first year of operation of the ECA was completed with a positive financial result of EUR 777,000 against an estimated deficit of EUR 765,000. We have therefore completely reversed the picture. We had a positive divergence of 1,000 million, and thanks to this positive discrepancy we achieved this picture of the surpluses and the positive return of the economy, while in the same direction, with an even greater surplus, this year's ends, which confirms the credibility of the Greek economy. Third element. And here I think the most deafening collapse of your propaganda on insurance reform is reflected. On the basis of the insurance provisions, which we adopted in 2016, from 1-1-2019 six hundred twenty-two thousand citizens - are not few - six hundred twenty-thousand pensioners listening to us today will see no reductions, but increases in their pensions, the first increases after the legacy of the memoirs you brought to the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Six hundred and twenty thousand major pensions will be from the 1st of January, increased after recalculation on the basis of the new framework. Ladies and gentlemen, today, both the efforts of the New Democracy to invest in destruction and lies are once again the same as the deep ideological and political dividing lines between our Government and the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis. On the one hand, the abolition of the pension cut which has been unnecessarily imposed on us by the International Monetary Fund, as well as the increases in six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners, not negligible increases. On the other hand, what is the proposal from the New Democracy? I will not refer to a trial of intent. The Greek people have watched us all this time and judged that we were all moving. I shall refer to your positions, your programming positions. On the other hand, there is the New Democracy proposal for the Pinochet insurance scheme, which puts supplementary pensions at risk of two and a half million fellow citizens, as your co-worker will suspend the financing of the insurance funds and either blows the budget back to the air or leads to the total disappearance of supplementary pensions. On the one hand, it is our intention that has already been announced and that action will be taken in the first few months to increase the minimum wage, but also to restore the collective bargaining that has already been done and, of course, to restore normality at work. From your point of view, the complete deregulation of the labour market, uninsured and black work, the return to the memorandum of working darkness. From our point of view, strengthening the social state, strengthening public health and welfare, by increasing funding from what we can, but also by hiring, by exploiting every piece of work, not by creating a large state, as you say, but by supporting people who need social health and welfare benefits. From your point of view, redundancies, the transfer of services to the private sector, the abolition of free care for the uninsured, the conversion of rule one to one, as with the effort to negotiate, we have managed to get to each departure, again to one by five. I mean, for every five departures, we have one intake. Again, that is, returning to the memorial darkness. It seems, Mr Mitsotakis, that the memorials are over for the place because of the hard work we have done, but you are the one who wants to return them, because you wish to apply them voluntarily without the imposition of creditors. Well, we won't do you a favor! The Greek people will not do you a favor to bring back the harsh memorial times, the memorials and the International Monetary Fund! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You, of course, want to vote with your mind in an elite, some state-owned business interests, which have a great responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country. We, and today, are voting in the minds of many, in the millions of our fellow citizens, who are today really relieved of the cuts in pensions, with the minds of those now running out of time, and especially at the beginning of the new year, will see significant increases in their income and, of course, with the brains of three and a half million of our fellow citizens who will see on the 14th and 28th of the month from EUR 200 to 1,200 in their bill of dividends from the total amount of EUR 710 million that we have secured thanks to the over-performance of the economy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] All these, ladies and gentlemen, will, as they deserve, have more hope and expectation. For others who beat the disaster, more difficult days may come. I will remember the saying of Finnish Commissioner Olli Rehn, who said "good courage" to the Greek people at a difficult time. I will say today 'good courage' to the Members of the New Democracy who will vote with us 'yes' in all, to the abolition of a shameless measure that they imposed on the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I want to close my speech by mentioning a genuinely prophetic position, which is timely because of today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the first official presence of Mr. Mitsotakis as Head of the New Democracy, of the Vice-Population Officer. It was January 26, 2016 and said, by addressing me: 'Truly, Prime Minister, what will happen to the main pensions from 1-1-2019? You know very well that personal differences, as described in the bill, carry the problem three years later. You are putting unresolved problems into the future, and this is politically irresponsible. You did it rather because you know you won't be government in 2019, to manage the problem". [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was your first intervention as Chief in the pre-date debate on insurance. Good, memorable premiere, Mr. Mitsotakis, like Portugal in EURO 2004, you have fallen! The unresolved problem of insurance has therefore not only been solved, Mr Mitsotakis, but it has also been solved for the benefit of pensioners. Because then, you know, we were talking more about the prospect of the insurance system being viable, and that was not about the other successful prophecy that pensions would be cut off. So we have solved a problem that all governments have had at the place since the 1990s. We have a sustainable insurance system and above all we have a fair insurance system. And the problem was solved for the benefit of retired people. As for the rest, I do not want to make any other comment. In 2019 it dawns in a few days, the government will be SYRIZA and ANEL, the government will be SYRIZA and 2020 and 2022 and 2023 and the next four years, because the Greeks and Greeks will not let the country return to the monumental legacy of bankruptcy and destruction, in which you brought the place and want to return us there. You won't make it, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the President of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata and her party MPs tabled today on 11-12-2018 a proposal for a law entitled "National demographic policy - Family support". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the Kymnasia Messinia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call to Stepma the Chief of Staff Response and President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Tsipras, I did fall out of my predictions. I do not know, however, how proud you must feel to be the longest-lived Memorandum Prime Minister in the history of memoranda. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But don't rush, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm afraid otherwise you'll be in 2019 and 2020. Because 2019 will be an election year and the Greek people will give you the answer and send you where you deserve it, in the opposition, because they do not forget what you promised him and all that you have done in these four years that you are ruling. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are here today because Mr. Tsipras continues to believe that he may mislead society. He knows that in order to try to do this, there must be no counterpart. How did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras? That we will suffer the suffering of the drop. Isn't that right? So you will be a little patient, ladies and gentlemen, because today, Mr Tsipras, you will be suffering the suffering of the truth, the reality that you have created for Greek citizens, a truth that society has experienced and is about to send you its own account. Because after four years, indeed society knows, after four years Greece has been re-elected. Whether you like it or not 2019 will be election year and the end of your journey will be the polls. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why such a turbulence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u63	Be quiet. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Tsipras, when you're done with your messages, it would be nice to keep an eye on the speaker. Unless you have such possibilities, you can do two things at the same time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u65	I hear you, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u66	It's a little prophetic you know! Unless you really believe or believe you citizens, that you are only a hundred days Prime Minister, as you recently told us. Now you've got a clean look, and you've had some delusion before. On the contrary, it is the citizens who clearly see that all your policy is a major fraud. You've been talking, Mr. Tsipras, very lately. I see you very active. Since we are here, however, today in the House you have not told us anything about the scaffolding. You've swallowed your voice. The same, of course, does not apply to Mr Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u67	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u68	Do you have anything to say to us, Mr. Tsipras, about what Mr. Zaev recently told us about the Macedonians of the Aegean, about Macedonians in Greece and about the Macedonians, which should be taught in our country? Mr. Zafe celebrates and advertises the deal, while you, all of you, have swallowed unspeakable water, because very simply Mr. Zaev won what no Greek government had given him in the past, Macedonian language and Macedonian nation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where for twenty-seven years six prime ministers - Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Andreas Papandreou, Kostas Simitis, Costas Karamanlis, George Papandreou, Antonis Samaras - said 'no', you said 'yes'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when, Mr. Tsipras, your government representative, but also your ministers, such as Mr. Skourletis, wonder if we agree with the motto "Democracy has sold Macedonia", we answer: No, we do not agree. You did it yourself and you have a full responsibility! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The rest of us in democracy have no responsibility for what you have negotiated. On the contrary, we have used and used all the tools that our democracy has to prevent you. If tomorrow the country is found to manage a problem of a Macedonian minority, it will certainly not be the fault of the parties and MPs who are against this agreement, because even Bulgaria that recognises Skopje under their constitutional name, does not recognise, Mr Tsipras, Macedonian language and ethnic Macedonian nationality, because it is well aware that that is where the substance of Macedonian alutism is hidden. But it's not just outside. You also suffer from general discourse. For example, we expect you to tell us a word about the DEPA scandal, in which every day a name is added to the list of persons involved. But there, it seems you've swallowed your speech. As for the question put by the New Democracy, you scheduled for 21 December. I think the reason for that is self-evident. Do what you can to ensure that public attention is directed elsewhere. But don't worry! The bucket of this dark case has just begun to unfold and we'll have a lot to say in the next few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, I believe that the citizens are being watched ironically, with absconding the last tale of the endless repertoire of your lies, that is, that you are actually ruling more than a hundred days, because for you the clock is running from the day you supposedly pulled the country out of the memoranda from August 21, 2018. Unfortunately, the truth is harder. Today you close a thousand four hundred seventeen days in power, a thousand four hundred seventeen dark days in Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u69	One or one of you count them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u71	And citizens count one - one! That's the problem. Not us. The citizens know that you fooled them, Mr. Tsipras, with false promises and that you targeted them with your policy. They know that you have put the economy in recession and that you have made fiscal policy with overtaxation. You got so much of too many to give very few. And today you're wearing the mask of the best philanthropist to share a tip. Where is it from? From their own income, which you've been hoarding for so long? Today, Mr Tsipras, you speak with courage, indeed, that you will no longer cut off pensions when you signed and voted for their reduction! You signed the pension cut, not us, Mr. Tsipras! You're kind of messed up. I have to enlighten you about what really happened in this Chamber. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Previously, however, you cut all the new pensions and sawn all the oldest. So today you will get the real account with which you have charged the Greek citizen for the last four years. Because by cynicism you set up a diversion on the Skopje national wound. I will tell you, Mr Tsipras, what all the citizens are talking about now: you have exchanged the point with the reductions in pensions. You have exchanged a measure which you should not have voted on with a major national retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u72	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u73	This was the ticket, Mr. Tsipras, by which you traveled from the Prespes to Ithaca, to the Prespes where you transferred Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity and to Ithaca where you directed the alleged exit from the memoranda. Only this is not the case with the interests of the country. Foreign interests are served. Can I also tell you what they say in Brussels, behind your back, Mr. Tsipras? They say that no Greek Prime Minister was so easy to negotiate. You gave it all for power! All of it! You've given it all! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are now saying that you will bring here sips - sips the glass of so-called relief measures, when you drown the Greeks daily in the torrents of taxes and cuts that you have imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of government policy is always the same. Take the myth of the supposedly clean exit. Greece is still out of markets, which is not the case for other countries that have lived in memoranda and have returned to normality. Mr Tsipras agreed on a leaf on the budget - which, unfortunately, is written in marble - with strong commitments, with excessive surpluses and - not to forget - with all the public wealth in the country as a pledge. All of this, based on your own commitments, will apply for decades. This is the informal fourth memorandum we're talking about. At the same time, in the shadow of the memorials, you go to set up a customer coercion in public, because that is where much of the revenue from overtaxation goes, which maintains the myth of the overcrowd, which comes from the supposedly over-performance of the economy. At the same time as you have come here to tell us that you have prevented pensions from being reduced, you have forgotten to mention that you have made seventeen interventions that have reduced the available income of pensioners. You also forget - you are only talking about the old pensioners, Mr. Tsipras - to tell us that with the Katorugalou law, which you are so advertised, you have created a new major breach in Greek society, condemning those who come out after April 2016 to much lower pensions. It is an unfair law, the Katrugalou law, because it primarily punishes those who have worked the most. That's why we're gonna ban him when we get to the government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now you're coming to say what to the old pensioners? That it will not apply the measure of the personal dispute, which you had legislated. And I don't need to remind you of the summer in July. Because you allegedly claimed that we wished that personal differences would apply somewhere to see the pensions of old pensioners cut off, you forgot to say, Mr Tsipras, that we in the summer of July tabled an amendment to abolish the measure, which you also voted against! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, once again you lied - you have the lies very easily, Mr Tsipras - when you referred to Mr Hatzidakis and what he said in committee. I read to you: "We, therefore, say the self-evident thing: there is not a single Greek citizen who wants pension cuts. If, Commissioner, you tell us that this pension agreement will be cancelled and the other possible agreements of the country will be cancelled, welcome.' That's what Mr. Hatzidakis said! Why even today do you lie and put other words in his mouth to serve your own account? And then you get angry when we call you "fake"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I give you the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u74	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u75	So the truth about pensions, Mr Tsipras, is one and it's bitter. I quote sips, as Mr. Tsipras would say. Which government completely abolished the CSR and the widow's pensions? You! Which government has reduced new basic and supplementary pensions for young pensioners up to 40% and disability pensions? You! Which government has increased all age limits and contributions, while it has cut the single ones? You! So the pensioners Greeks, Mr. Tsipras, the old but especially the new pensioners, know very well that they are hostages of your policy. And if you had elementary honesty and a little sense of shame, you wouldn't come here to lie. The pensioners who will see a little increase, Mr. Tsipras, are they the ones who lost the CSCE? How much do you get from one pocket to give them crumbs from the other? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're not ashamed to come here today and play Santa Claus when you're both out of old and new retired people! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore like to say, for the Minutes, about the seventeen speeches you have made, which affects the available income of pensioners. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But it's not just pensions. You have cost the Greek economy more than 100 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u76	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u77	You change it every time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u78	Why, do you look a little bit like that? If it were EUR 90 billion, would things be better, Mr. Tsipras? We are talking about 100 billion euros. If you want to do it you 200 billion euros, do it! It's no problem! The EUR 100 billion seems very little to you, Mr. Tsipras! This is where we are! You condemned the country in a prolonged recession. You've closed the banks, we've got Capital Controls, you've broken the middle class and smile because it's only EUR 100 billion in the account! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here is the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, proud of the Prime Minister's chair for what he has done in the Greek economy! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] As we talked about insurance, then, Mr Tsipras, come and drink a drop - drop the bitter glass of taxes. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You're gonna be a little patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u79	Come on! Patience! Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u80	Twenty-nine new SYRIZA taxes these three and a half years: VAT increase. Transfer of goods and services of wide consumption from the reduced rate to the normal rate. Removal of reduced VAT for the Aegean islands. Increase specific contribution and solidarity factors. Reduction of tax-free threshold. Abolition of tax exemptions, such as medical expenses. Abolition of the tax deduction of 1.5% by employed persons. Increase in personal income tax rates. Removal of self-taxed income from a liberal profession. Increasing rates of income from rents. Increase tax advance for all professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. We just closed the first ten, and I keep going. Increasing the tax rate of legal persons. Here comes the big fraud, so I'm going to open up a parentheses: After you took the tax from 26% to 29%, you're now coming to celebrate why you're taking it to 28%. And in 2021 you would take him to 26% - you wouldn't, of course, be in the government - where he was, that is, in 2014. I continue: Increase the tax rate of dividends. Increase the rate of luxury living tax. Removal of a reduced excise duty on alcohol in the Dodecanese. You listen very carefully. You don't even know what you've voted for! Charge to pay-TV. Enforcement of a fixed telephony tax and the Internet. The tax increase in the beer. Wine tax. Enforcement of a excise duty on electronic cigarettes. Increasing analogue cigarette tax. Increase in tax on unleaded petrol and diesel. Enforcement of residence tax for all tourist accommodation. The next one is perhaps the only right tax, along with another tax you have put on short-term housing leases. Coffee tax. INITIAL increase in plots and inclusion in the calculation of non-project agricultural parcels. Increase the additional ENVIRONMENT. Increase in taxable income as a benefit in kind for corporate IX. Enforcement of an environmental charge on the use of plastic bag - I can accept this - and impose a fee on the value of computers, tablets with an internal memory of more than 4GB. Here's the black list of your taxes, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm tabling it for the Minutes. Please give it to the Prime Minister, to remember the tax lot that he has imposed on all Greek citizens. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So your policy, ladies and gentlemen, was not in favour of some and others. It was a policy against everyone. And this table is the summary of this tax account of your own government. Here too, Mr Tsipras, it is indeed our great difference. We want fewer taxes and contributions and more investments so that the public wealth benefits all, you tax anyone you find, you pooren the many to hold them hostages of sporadic allowances. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, we have two completely different economic philosophies. The same table, however, proves where these few antidotes come from, which you share today to contain a few desperate voters. It is precisely, Mr Tsipras, the money that has been collected in multiples from the other citizen's pocket. Your surpluses, Mr. Tsipras, are the deficits in each Greek's pocket! Peanuts of the many crabs you've taken from him. It turns out in a few words, Mr Tsipras, that you are playing the galantomus with foreign money. Make the blanket with the others' money. At the same time, you have created conditions so that no one can raise a head. You have chained the country to supervision, to austerity for many years and you have drugged the next day, spraying it with propaganda and disappointment. Mr Tsipras, you come here today and you should actually apologize. You insult the Greeks with your arrogance and I have just proved that you are returning them one of the ten that you took them and want to tell you and "thank you". But the citizens got hurt and learned. Be a little patient and you'll get their answer. If you ask, I tell you that the New Democracy does not deny a single euro headed for the Greek family. After all, we have voted against all your own measures that have made it poorer. "Yes" to anything that relieves even one of our fellow citizens from your disastrous policy. On the other hand, I have warned the Greeks about the suffocating networks, with which you have already wrapped up the country, about the gross surpluses and the heavy obligations until 2060. And if there is no policy change, it will mean maintaining tax raid and austerity for many years. The risk that we should not be able to borrow from the market at reasonable interest rates and be forced to resort once again to European aid has not gone through. And it will not go no further than that, Mr Tsipras, if the country does not recover the most important intangible asset, its credibility. From this step, Mr Tsipras, I am returning to you the danger that your propaganda is addressing us. You're the one who didn't let the country end with the second memorandum! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're the one who brought the inappropriate third memorial. You are the one applying the informal fourth memorandum. You are the one who, as long as you live in power, undermines the future of the country, returning to the worst habits of the past. Benefits instead of jobs, Russells instead of merit, manipulation of institutions instead of independence of justice, scandals instead of transparency. Well, we won't leave you. You will leave before you take Greece to another adventure and bring the disaster. Announce, Mr. Tsipras, an hour ago. Give the people the opportunity to take their luck and decide for himself the shameful Ambassadors' agreement! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I call on the Greeks to remain united and determined in the face of the wounds that this government opens in the scaffolding. Zweev statements about "Macedonians of the Aegean", about "Macedonian" taught in Greece, unfortunately shows that the recognition of Macedonian language and identity has been watered by alutism, disastrous and shows how correct our attitude has been from the outset, how correct the "no" was in the Prespecies Agreement. Of course, it puts both the people and the MPs before their responsibilities. The people must keep their national minds high and mature, but without extremes and inexpensive nationalisms. And parliamentarians will also study the data well and express their decisions on national responsibility and vote against the agreement whenever it comes to ratification in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, it is clear that the end of your power, as well as your beginning four years ago, is in great danger to the country. Your coexistence with Mr. Kammenos, your insistence on bringing to Parliament the scorpion, the fiscal deadlock, the difficulty of the country to come out on the market, the encouragement of lawlessness in universities, poverty, taxes, fear, and the constant efforts to control justice and to manipulate the free information, the lie and the mud with which you make politics, all this causes public life and threaten the democratic acquis of the country. But the New Democracy is here. It guarantees both the stability of the country and the quality of our democracy. It guarantees prosperity and guarantees security for every Greek citizen. The New Democracy is here to tell the Greeks, not only that we deserve better, but that we can do better. He's here, Mr. Tsipras, to tell you you're done. Understood. Do not drag the country any more and drag with the country. Greece and the Greeks will finally move forward. In a few months, we are turning a page and a new, optimistic tomorrow is dawning for all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Mitsotakis, I have watched your attempt to raise the tones in a theatrical way, a hopeless attempt to convince you that you have a narrative in the economy. Of course, if you have said something essential that needs an answer - and I will answer - it is not about the economy. However, let me make two comments on the economy at first. You have spoken once again about your infamous account, namely the cost of this government which has taken the country out of the memorials, which you are talking about every time - because it is free of charge, as far as you can charge - you change it. Another time you say it's eighty billion, another time you say it's 100 billion, another time it's 100 billion. It's for free anyway. I'm going to read you data from ELSTAT. In 2014, therefore, the country's public debt was EUR 324,1 billion. At the end of 2015, when we charged the country with 100 billion, the country's debt was not 424 billion, but it was 321, i.e. a reduction of EUR 2.8 billion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am telling you this to understand that this bazaar numerical you are using is an irreparable one, because, you know, the Greek people have both memory and judgment and remembers who were the ones who led the country to huge deficits and bankruptcy, who were the ones who managed the country's bankruptcy in the worst possible way to lead us to the arms of the International Monetary Fund and to the lifting of a large part of our economic sovereignty, who were the ones who were begging, when we negotiated, to lead the rocks and to return, to rectify the old political system that threw the country on the rocks. The Greek people very well remember who brought the memorial throat in the first five years, and especially in the first three years, where 25% of our GDP was lost, the middle of our national wealth and you came and voted with both hands 'yes' in all these harsh measures of austerity. Because you have made a really remarkable effort here to remember taxes, I will make you the suma, Mr Mitsotakis. Because we do not deny that we have received the country in dissolution and bankruptcy, financial suffocation, and that we have negotiated hard to reach a compromise, but that has brought about a programme of much weaker budgetary adjustment. Yeah, it was fiscal adjustment. I will make comparisons with numbers for the Greek people to remember and to know the last citizen to listen to us. But, Mr Mitsotakis, we focused our negotiation on the major structural, structural reforms needed by the Greek economy and the country. But the Governments, in 2010 and then, focused where it was easy, whoever gets the favor, on cuts and towels for pensions and wages. This is how 25% of national wealth was lost and not even a structural, substantial reform did not take place so that you could rebuild the Greek economy. The insurance policy has made it sustainable. The public administration, we streamlined it. You only made redundancies and cutbacks. So I will give you the souma, so that you do not get tired of the negative measures brought by your governments and the negative measures that we have brought. Because we've brought negative action too. We don't deny it. In 2010 you took measures of EUR 19.7 billion, EUR 18.24 billion in 2011, EUR 11.53 billion in 2012, EUR 10.22 billion in 2013, and in 2014, after the European elections, Mr. Samaras braked and brought only EUR 6 billion in negative measures. The total account, the soum for those who know how to measure and have taken out the good things you have done, is EUR 65 billion negative measures in the five-year period of your own Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u83	Where's that evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u84	You should go back to ELSTAT to find them. These are elements of the budgets you voted on. With all hands you voted on them and don't question the evidence. In 2015, following the compromise and agreement with the partners, we have indeed led to a mild fiscal adjustment, but I repeat - to structural reforms. That's how the country came out of the crisis, so we brought back surpluses and so we managed to create public finances reliably. Yes, indeed, in 2015 we had EUR 2,64 billion, not EUR 19 and 18 billion, EUR 3,15 billion in 2016, EUR 2,38 billion in 2017 and EUR 1,9 billion in 2018. What is the sum of all this? To include the fact that in 2017 we returned about EUR 1.2 billion as a social dividend to the citizens, in 2016 we returned less and in 2018 we returned to the citizens almost EUR 1.5 billion. So the negative measures that we took were close to EUR 9 billion, when you in a five-year period took EUR 65 billion. What are you coming to compare in this Chamber? The EUR 65 billion with the EUR 9 billion? What's heavier and bigger? But it is not a question of quoting numbers here, because the Greek people have fresh memories of what it was like when you were bringing measures that were depriving pensioners of the dignity that you deprived of of their wages, which led to unemployment of one and a half million citizens, while we have already reduced unemployment from 27% to 18.5%, over 300,000 jobs. What exactly do you want to compare? Do you think the Greek people have forgotten? He hasn't forgotten. He has recorded in his memory, in his conscience and in his heart what exactly you did and especially the fact that, when you did it, you continued the party of corruption and interlocutory, with "NOVARTIS" and other businesses, the multinationals, who came to Greece to unravel the battle of the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that's what he won't forgive you at the end of the day, not the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u85	Petsini's accounts?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u86	Come on, Mrs. Buddhism, leave the voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u87	Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u88	Now, sit down, I know you're sitting on burning coals, but at a meeting, don't go interfering. You've got Chief to talk to him. Yeah, I'll tell you everything today, 'cause you opened my appetite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u89	I'll tell you everything. First of all, Mr Mitsotakis, you have read to me Mr Hatzidakis' statements at the meeting where Commissioner Moskovis was present. You testify without anyone pressing you. Indeed, that is what Mr Hatzidakis said. Mr. Hatzidakis said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u90	Will you repeat it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u91	Yeah, I'll repeat it. Do you want me to repeat it? If you don't want to, I don't repeat it. So the essence of what Hatzidakis said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u92	Come on, Mr. Voridis. You're not in court, nor is the Prime Minister a witness. Get to your role here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u93	Mr Counsellor, let me repeat this mot a mot. Mr. Hatzidakis said: "We have shaped our programme on the basis of international agreements. If the pension agreement and other international agreements are cancelled, we should know that so that we can shape our programme as well." That's what Mr. Hatzidakis said. [[Applause]] So what does Mr Hatzidakis say about that? Before applauding, please listen, ladies and gentlemen, to understand a little, why Mr Mitsotakis does not understand what he is reading. So what Mr Hatzidakis said in the Chamber - which, of course, all remembers and what Mr Hatzidakis said - was Mr Mitsotakis' personal attack on the Commissioner who dared to leave the possibility of not cutting pensions open - but what Mr Hatzidakis said at the time was the same: The first point, that - you know - pensions and other international agreements, take note, Commissioner, pacta sun servanda, do not tell us here that agreements cannot be measured and that agreements cannot be implemented. And the second thing Mr Hatzidakis said, which you are trying to circumvent, is: "Let us know, in order to shape our programme as well", because obviously the New Democracy, in addition to two and a half years, has been asking for elections, has shaped its programme with the measure of the reduction of pension resources. He would never abolish it. [[Applause from SYRIZA's wings]] As long as, Mr. Mitsotakis, for the count, I'm sympathetic to you counting the days. Someone else - I read - from the Congress wrote that you didn't count how many days have passed since you asked for elections, because more than a thousand days have passed. You know, as much as you count - count - you will not be fired, you will stay inside again. You are not going to be fired, because your Greek people are doomed to the post of Officer Opposition. As long as you measure our days, it will take soon, in September 2019, to renew the shorter, because you will count again for another four years. I do not want to omit the thanks of Mrs Vulture on her favourite issues of scandals and scandals, so because the scandal and other scandals - because we all know that scandal exists when a government has proved itself to be or its omissions, it favours certain economic interests. In return, they're looking for the prosecutors to find it many times. You know, with this law on the responsibility of Ministers, sometimes they find it, but no one is punished, sometimes it is extremely difficult to find accounts. In any case, however, there are very many cases investigated by Greek justice which concern the time when you have ruled. However, it must be very great that Mr Mitsotakis is in his despair to come to Parliament today on the day we vote for the discharge of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens from unbearable burdens and so cheaply to change the agenda. I knew, of course, that you have been indulged in a hopeless attempt to discover scandalously to government ministers. And because reality doesn't make you the grasp, the worse for reality. Since you do not find scandals, you always try to devise them, of course with the help of the media, many of them with your well-known friend, businessman, shipowner, who likes to have Piraeus in his possession, and you cannot find a candidate in Piraeus so that you do not spoil the soup and at any rate this friend of yours is also the subject of a felony, he is also persecuted for a drug trafficking case. Justice, of course, I imagine she will do her job. I imagine, however, that, in order for this friend of yours to give his change with so many Facebook articles all this time from the media he has and to support you so earnestly, he will probably expect something from you - I imagine - as far as the evolution of his judicial affairs is concerned. And I say this, Mr Mitsotakis, because I have here today a rough collection of articles from its own newspapers in relation to the scandals of the current government. "PARAPOLITIC": "Partner of Euklidis Tsakalotos" - supposedly - "was "invited by entrepreneur Joseph Levanos in knowledge of the Great Maximos". “News”, 17-11-2015: “Nikos Papa and Christos Spirtzis have set up an arrangement and service office with an annual turnover of 50,000 euros.” Well done, guys, that's a very good job, for every ruffle of 50,000 euros, very expensive turf. "BYMA fm": "Tsipras acquired his home" - in rent I live in Kypili - "by means of auctioning, after the business owner killed himself because of debts". Let me remind you before. In the most recent "BIMA", the then Minister of Labour, Mr. Katrugalos, promised appointments with 12% commission. Good supply, I'm not saying. Remind you of the "NEA", March 22, 2018, headlined by Balaourras, SYRIZA MP: "Makis Balaouras made photographic provision to exclude pension reductions". And I would remind you, of course, of the excellent press release, headlined again in "NEA", when the tragic accident took place in Aegina, where Dritsa spoke of the pre-examination of the rapid-ship accident in Aegina, and of course he implied that in the midst of the flight, Alekos Flamouraris, was also on the way. Well, they are. These are the Fake News that have flooded the political life of the place by your friends and supporters. So what do we think of all this? And unfortunately, that is what you are counting on to make a policy. Fake news is an international phenomenon, but to make use of these fast news opposition officer's party and his leader to make politics, this is unprecedented for the place and harmful to democracy. Of course, not just scandalology, but since we are talking about pensions today, I should also like to remind you of recent headlines. On October 5, 2018, Chancelloria only speaks in “NEA”: “You are committed to pensions, don’t dare take the measure of withdrawal”. But also the front page, when I went and met the German Minister for Finance, where again directly exclusive from Berlin: 'Only low pensions are guaranteed'. Here, I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is the credibility of the instruments that support you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u95	Sit down, Mrs. Vulge. Now you're gonna listen. Now you don't talk. Now I speak and the Greek people hear who you are. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in most of these publications, the headlines, much later there were denials on the basis of judicial decisions, on the basis of Mr Katrugalos, and in the case of Pope Spirtzi and many others. But what are you going to do with the front page of an oldly-approved and valid newspaper and today yellow press to support Mr. Mitsotakis, who is carving the kiosks of the whole country, when after a few months you will see a one-stop model in which he says "I'm sorry", as Mr. Balaura has done recently? What are you gonna do with it? But that's your tactic! That's your policy! So now, Mr Mitsotakis, since the make news about policy, pensions, ministers, do not work, you are beginning to scare the relatives first-degree, relatives second-degree. And because you didn't even find offshore there, as you might find on other relatives, you're starting to find interest, you're reassured with the friends and classmates of the Ministers from Primary and Gymnasium. Well, you do, I'm not saying, in your despair, you can do something, except you're in danger of it, and you're in danger of it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u96	Is that the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u97	If you did not like the answer, I can repeat it, ladies and gentlemen. I'm having a lot of fun anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u98	Mrs Vulture, we have a pre-election period, but enough. Ten minutes you've done ping with the Prime Minister. You know what I said! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u99	Oh, no! Look at yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u100	It's the easiest I could say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u101	I'd like to close up, though. The only thing that the Chief of Staff has fallen into is that in the last few days I have had a problem with my vocal chords. However, I have never been vindicated in my political attitude and position and critical issues, especially national issues, I would not let them fall down. So I heard Mr. Mitsotakis - I'm very sorry, but it was like hearing Adoni Georgiadis, you don't know anything about everything he said about the Macedonian. I want to make a few things clear, however, before dealing with some very hard and heavy ones he has said. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly stressed, and it has also been made clear from all the international actors, that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should both be in charge of its constitutional amendments, which are being discussed these days, as the forthcoming change in its constitution is being discussed, as the Prespecies Agreement stipulates, but also with the statements of its officials must respect the spirit and letter of the Treaty of Ambassadors. If that is not the case, we have said to ourselves, but to all tons of public opinion that neither the agreement nor the accession of the neighbouring country to international organisations will go ahead. We therefore expect very carefully, we do not prejudge the completion of the constitutional process, having given clear signals that are needed and where they must be given, not in the public debate for impression, but where they must be given. From there on, our position is clear. Firstly, the Prespecies' Agreement, I will repeat - my language is tired, but I will repeat - they do not recognise any nation and any ethnic group. And on the issue of citizenship, they correct something that has been happening so far in passports, where, of course, the citizens of the neighbouring country come today at the time we are talking about in our country to visit it by listing in their passports "Macedonians". What, then, would have happened if we took your advice seriously and left this issue out of negotiation, as you have done in the past? These passports would simply continue to record the word "Macedonians". As far as language is concerned, you know, during your own governments, at an international conference in Athens, it was the international community that, in 1977, recognised the language of the neighbouring country. Subsequently, with regard to the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the entry on the UN list for many years has indicated that language under the well-known condition. The Prespecies Agreement clearly states that this language has nothing to do with Greek Macedonia and the ancient Greek heritage and belongs to the group of southern Slavic languages. And, of course, that is true, as far as the neighbouring country and its citizens are concerned. Now, about which languages are taught in our own country, it is a matter governed exclusively by our own laws. However, I would like to ask myself, what exactly do you call this language, Mr Mitsotakis? Do you use the same term as Mr. Averov used as Foreign Minister in this Chamber in September 1959? Do you use the term that, because of the oligopoly and the inertia of your own governments, they currently use over 30 countries in the world, including the most powerful countries? Or did you ever get the neighbors officially to accept that none of their culture has anything to do with ancient Macedonia, ancient Greek heritage and history? Did you ever manage to change names of monuments, force them to never make use of the sixteen star of Vergina? Did you do that? Because you spoke with very heavy words and because I do not say air words in this Chamber, I will read you on what Evangelos Averov said. It's an excerpt from the official minutes of the House on September 17, 1959. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time and said, "Lords, in the matter of language a lot can be said. Firstly, the Macedonian language, which is spoken in Skopje, is not spoken in Greek Macedonia. It also has grammar and editorial. There is a local idiom which has nothing to do with the Macedonian language."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u102	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u103	Well, really. So what's he talking about in the neighbouring country? The Macedonian language is spoken, then Evangelos Averov said, while in Greece some of our fellow citizens speak an idiom.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u104	Macedonian language they called it. Read below!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u105	You're welcome, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u106	The Minutes are clear, Mr Tasoula. Now I'm actually coming to the point. The defendant draws his conclusions on political opportunism, but also on the attempt made by some to fish in the cloudy waters of the far right audience, but on crucial issues nationally cannot be played. And I say this because a minority issue you first opened, Mr Mitsotakis, with your interview in the magazine 'POLITICO', an interview to which you mentioned - it is in introductory form - namely: 'There is a fear of local uprisings in Greece, where separatist forces, on the occasion of the agreement, see the agreement as an invitation to organise them'. Autonomous forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u107	Deposit it in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u108	I'll testify. It's English and you know better than I do. I may not pronounce "Colombia" as "Colambia", but I know how to read and make a translation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u109	I'm asking the Practical Officers to give me a copy of the statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u110	If it's a smuggling thing that we read online, Mr. Mitsotakis, you should be placed and tell us what you said. However, this is not the first time you haven't posted the site of New Democracy the whole of your interview in international magazines. And in your last interview with the "FINANCIAL TIMES" something you forgot about the few-farmers and the canalarchs. You forgot something, you cut that verse. But I'm actually coming. And the essence is that if there is a contract, an agreement that fully protects us, much more than the interim agreement, from the possibility that in the future this issue will arise, namely a minority, in our country, is the Ambassadors' Agreement. I read Article 4(3) to you: "Each party is bound by this and formally states that nothing in its Constitution, as it is currently or will be amended in the future, may or could be interpreted as being or could form the basis for intervention in the internal affairs of the other Party in any form and for any reason, including the protection of the status and rights of any person who is not its citizens". For Greek citizens, then, we have the responsibility, the Hellenic Republic, the Greek state. We are clearly protected by the Prespecies Agreement from such a possibility. You've read it, but you insist on twisting. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I have heard you today, and I really am out of my clothes because I did not expect you from the Step of the House to speak with the same café speech as your Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis, on the clipboards that come out and tell you that this government has not only sold Macedonia, but has also made a transaction, it has exchanged the non-implementation of pension cuts with the Prespecies Agreement. It is a disgrace, Mr Mitsotakis, and it does not suit this moral and political reason that, of course, you have made an effort to degrade all these years that you are the Chief of Anti-Population, which bears your name and your previous presence. It's a disgrace! And after all, since with this law we bring the transaction here and do not reduce pensions because we are selling Macedonia, why are you voting for this law, which is the transaction and the sale of Macedonia? Why do you vote for him? Aren't you a little ashamed to say these things to the Greek Parliament? How low are you finally going to fall? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I invite you to remove your vote from the pension cut if you think it is a transaction product on such a critical national issue. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, when we brought in and took this step of the agreement, we knew that there are disagreements, that there are sensitivities. We have not fooled the citizens who have protested or taken a different view and told them that they are fascists or that they are brokers, because we believe that our attitude protects the patriotic interest and the patriotic duty. But we haven't told any shareholders and traitors, as you are doing here today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where you are invited to comment for the second time on the motto of Golden Dawn in schools, that democracy sold Macedonia, instead of condemning it, all you had to say is that democracy did not sell because we did not participate, SYRIZA sells Macedonia! Shame on you! I do not allow you to call us traitors and brokers! It's a disgrace to you! [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] And all this, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Mitsotakis has failed in the disaster strategy, he has failed his account in the economy and finds no other way today to destabilise the country's progress from the crisis, the country's progress towards recovery, and the only way he finds is to create a picture of national division and polarisation. Because you were in this Chamber again, when going down from the Step you told me in the summer "You will not be able to go up to Thessaloniki". In Thessaloniki I went up, I spoke, I said what I said and you are voting today. And those who were out protesting were three thousand extremes, far right-wing, all of whom we saw and you charmed them. And I wonder: of course the citizens who have their opinion, their legitimate disagreement, are related to these extreme nationalists who protested at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? Mr. Mitsotakis, one week now I do not go to a PM tour in Thessaloniki, I go to a political gathering and there are extremist posters calling for concentration, political counter-concentration, against the political concentration organized by SYRIZA in Alexandria Melathoros. And I ask you: do you welcome such behaviour? You know, Thessaloniki had to see counter-concentrations at political gatherings since 1963, when with the tricycle Godzamanis killed Lambrakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you, Mr Mitsotakis, addressed the new citizens of this country, saying: 'What does it matter now who cares about what happened in 1963?' Well, I tell you that the Greek people have memory and consciousness and the great majority of our people are democrats and progressive citizens and the democrats and the progressive citizens will give the present in our struggle for democracy, for solidarity, to give the message of the friendship of the peoples in our struggle, to unite the Greeks and not to divide them, as you do. And their answer too, but you will take it from the people of Macedonia and Thessaloniki both at the day-to-day gathering and when the polling time comes. Because if you think you're gonna split the Greeks to win, you're making a big mistake. You're deep in the night!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u111	Good, thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty one students and students and two of their teachers, again from the Kyprissia High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr. President, if possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u113	Using dentistry is, what should I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u114	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time. You're giving time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Kammenos, please. Because the bill is urgent...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u116	Would you like to answer Mr. Tsipras for Skopje? You can take the floor. There's no problem, you'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u117	Put the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. It's not possible to dismantle...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u118	We put him on, but it's not up to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u119	You are the first President of Parliament to repeal the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u120	Be well, thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Tsipras, let's start with the make news. You referred to an interview I allegedly gave to 'POLITICO'. In fact, you said that because I said it in English, you translated it because there was no Greek statement, but it existed in English. I will show you exactly what Mr. Tsipras has put in the Minutes, to see the terrible mechanism with which you produce make news in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's see what it is that you testified on, why you didn't want to testify on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u122	I got it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u123	Is it an interview with POLITICO? There is an English phrase “there’s year of “regional unrest”,” is a post from the blog “The Facts.gr”. So there's a phrase in English in introductorys and then what does it say? "It is time for Kyriakos Mitsotakis to do "POLITICO". Aren't you a little ashamed of misery within Parliament, reproducing fake papers? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You here are the high priest of the make news, Mr. Tsipras! Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u124	I got it here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u125	He's acting like he did, he says. I know very well what I have said and what I have not said, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u126	What did you say? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u127	Let's come now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u128	What did you say? Do you agree? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u129	I never said that. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u130	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u131	I never said it and the Prime Minister reaches the Greek Parliament to invoke the posts of your paid websites as a allegedly my statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u132	Please, be quiet! Mr. Constantinea, Mr. Antonio, please! Don't make me mention names. Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u133	Mr Tsipras, we are now going to the economic issues. You have spoken to us about 'black numerical'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u134	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u135	Wait a minute, just give yourself a little patience. Why such nervousness?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u136	Because you're very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u137	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u138	Tell Mrs. Buddhism!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Constantine, please! Leave me alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u140	I can see a lot of nervousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u141	Mr. President, say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u142	I did the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u143	You should say that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u144	That's where you don't bring it up, right here you bring it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u145	So, Mr. Tsipras, to come back to this dark first period of your administration when you had ministers to Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Lafazanis and bring the country to the edge of the cliff. Have you damaged or damaged the country, Mr. Tsipras, in the first half of 2015, yes or no 100 billion? I didn't say that, Mr. Regglink said so. I did not say that, Mr Tsipras, the European institutions said so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when you ask me, if we remember our past, let us be a little more careful when we talk about this Chamber in the past, because, Mr Tsipras, the Greek citizens remember very well how you were elected, promising that you would tear up the memorials with a law and an article. They remember you very well in the squares of indignant anger.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u146	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u147	Then violence and reaction were good when you were down in the lower square, now the citizens who protest are nationalists and fascists. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I don't remember what you did earlier. The citizens remember very well, Mr Tsipras, who would abolish the ENPI, who would raise the minimum wage and what exactly happened to this disastrous first half of 2015, how much you damaged the country and why we had to go to a third memorandum, Mr Tsipras. The third memorandum, I will say again in this Chamber, was unnecessary, Mr Tsipras. And the difference that was then in the negotiation, in the notorious email Hardouvelis, which I see you have forgotten since, was of the order of 1.5 billion. That was the difference which we inherited and took measures not of 9, but 11 billion, Mr Tsipras. This is the cost of the third memorandum only in terms of the measures you have taken. Would you like to come to the banks a little, Mr. Tsipras? Let's come to the banks a little. What was the value of the shares held by the Greek State in the Greek banks in 2014? Do you remember that, Mr. Tsipras? More than 25 billion euros. What happened after the third recapitalisation? They went about zero. Have banks lost or not lost 99.7% of their value from your own debris and shells of Mr. Varoufakis? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is that for free money? Didn't the Greek State pay for that, Mr. Tsipras? Isn't the Greek taxpayer paying for this? And this damage to the banks, you know, is a permanent loss, which was completed after the September 2015 elections, when the third recapitalisation took place. Do you forget all this? Didn't you tell us, Mr. Tsipras, that at that time you had delusional things and then that, in any case, if we were to lead the country to the conflict and exit from the euro, our democracy was in danger? Really, did you find out? Before, when you said it, didn't you know? In any case, where we were struggling to keep the country in Europe, at a cost, did we not know? What were we? Were we massagers imposing these measures? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Have you forgotten all about what you were saying and seen the truth when you held a false and polluting referendum, so that you could get it back after five days and get a bet in Europe to ask Mrs Merkel to give you what? A third memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u148	You're welcome. Mr. Georgiadis, you said something I only heard. So don't go on. Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u149	So let us say some truths in this Chamber, Mr Tsipras. You reiterate once again your claim that you represent the new and that the old destroyed the country. When you say old, I imagine you're referring to the governments of PASOK and the New Democracy, aren't you, Mr. Tsipras? Isn't that the old one, which, as you say, destroyed the country? So I have one question: I always wanted to ask you, but today you gave me this opportunity. This right here is the new one, which ends the old one? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, let's see. Let's take them one: Nikos Kotzias, advisor to George Papandreou. Christos Spirtzis - where are you, Mr. Spirtzi? - Secretary of Organizing PASOK. You're the new one and you're smiling now? That's a young-goveau smack! - You're a politician! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I continue: Catrugalos George, President of the EAEC. Kouroublis Panagiotis. You were up and up to applaud. And you're young in politics! You have nothing to do with the old one! You're fresh!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u150	You're no more patriot than I am!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Curublis, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u152	I have more to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u153	Wait a minute, excuse me. Personal references to one by one, unfortunately, may also create answers. Please avoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I guess you won't give me any suggestions. Your job is to impose the order in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u155	We want to hear and find out, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u156	You want to know, but you can have answers from one to one. You understand that. It's not right. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Mr. Mitsotakis, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u157	I just started with the old man's name reports. Xenonanakopoulou Mariliza, Minister for Health PASOK. Now you've put it in your government. And that's new! Marcos Bolaris. Jack Theodora. Toskas Nikos. Micholoannakis Yiannis. There's a lot of others. I also have some who belonged to our area: Kammenos Panos, the Minister of the New Democracy, if I am not mistaken. Colles - Chharuha Maria. Helena Cucumber. I put it in the Minutes, so next time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u158	Papagelopoulos, you've forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u159	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u160	So next time, Mr Tsipras, you will talk about the old and new people, look at your ministerial seats and your parliamentary group. Because when it comes to votes and many members of the old PASOK, they are welcome, but when you are about to put false dilemmas on who is old and who is young, it suits you to this account. Of course, as far as who continues the worst manifestations of the old clienteleic logic, the rumours, the enlargement of the state, the taxi, the lies, all the things that brought the country into bankruptcy are unfortunately incarnation, Mr Tsipras, to your own face. Two topics, and I'm just finishing up. I saw you very concerned about the issues of Scandalology. I was amazed, Mr Tsipras, because it is a question of whether I dedicated three proposals to my prototype on this issue. And I do wonder why, Mr Tsipras, you have today been forced into such a strong state of charging and irritation to apologise for something that I did not speak very much about. But since you have reintroduced the debate and made an introduction to those which will be discussed on 21 December, when our question on the PPA is discussed, I have only one question to ask you. Has it been exercised or criminally prosecuted against Mr. Kitsaku? And was Mr. Kitsakos or wasn't your agent, Mr. Tsipras? Are ELFE's debts increased or not increased in PPC on your own days? And it does not involve or involve at least seven ministers who said to him: "Do all this, and you have our backs to fetch the DEPA," for reasons that only you may know? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, please respond a little on the substance of this, rather than reading a headline with which we, Mr Tsipras, have nothing to do with it. If you have any objections, Mr Tsipras, with certain entrepreneurs, I understand that with these businessmen, I think, you have had some good relationships with them, but now I'm leaving them a little bit aside. This concerns you and the businesspeople. Here we account for what we are doing as a New Democracy and you account for what you are doing as a government. I now come to the question of Macedonian. Mr. Tsipras, you will not shake any fingers here, in this Chamber, nor will you be angry to abandon this party, which has a long history in this place and whose patriotism has never been questioned by anyone. So I'm telling you again, so you can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u161	Are you the only ones who are a patriot?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u162	Quiet, please! Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u163	Are we all the others traitors? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u164	Please, Mr. Kurubli, don't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u165	You want to go back to PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u166	The division...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Curublis, please. Don't make me call you in class. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u168	He wants to make him a minister again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u169	How about you, Mrs. Karamanlis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u170	Hey, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u171	What to do, but Mr. Mitsotakis is speaking of attendance. Come on, Mr. President, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u172	So I'll say it again to understand it well, Mr. Tsipras. Where everyone else said no, you said yes. You transferred Macedonian language and ethnicity, not citizenship, to the Prespecies Agreement. You're the ones who caused... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Same again? That's what you say, that's what you signed! Is that what you signed and you're asking for the change? Aren't you embarrassed? That's what you signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u173	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u174	And be careful, Mr. Tsipras. You know, these aren't questions of interpretation. The deal is clear. There are no doubts at all. Does it not surprise you that Mr Zaev systematically says what he says - and take note, Mr Zaev is the most moderate of the Skopje - it says that we 'we have finally managed and won what no previous government had given us and that the name, all right now, Northern Macedonia does not matter, we are Macedonians and we speak Macedonian language'? Doesn't that bother you, Mr. Tsipras? And when next time you will speak at this step on the gatherings you will be very careful, not only because you have come to power, evaporating the passions and anger of the Greek people, riding this wave of wrath, which you have undermined in the most vulgar and populist way, but also because you have brought to you the great majority of the Greek people. The issue of the name of Skopje, nationality and language is not an issue that only concerns certain extreme powers. And be very careful in this Chamber, because we at the very first moment did not just take a distance, but we strongly condemned the burning of what you were doing by the forces of hatred and xenophobia. Since the first time we did it, when you never did in this Chamber, you have never dared to condemn the violence wherever it came from. We are therefore condemning nationalism in the most unequivocal way, but for you there has once been good and bad violence. There was the good violence of the lower square and the bad violence of the police. There are good and bad occupations for you, the bad occupations of children who protest the Skopje issue and the good occupations, the ones you made when you built your student career. For us, then, there is only evil and black fascism and we condemn it in the most unequivocal way. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't think again in this room of identifying the great central right-wing party with the right-wing right. And with which far right? The one you're running with, Mr. Kammenos. And you're gonna ask for the change from us? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So be careful, Mr. Tsipras, be very careful. Be careful, because you've put Greek society across. And if you really want the Greek society to be placed on this issue, there is only one way to do so: make elections before bringing the ratification agreement to the House and there you will get the Greek people's final answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Mitsotakis, when you talk about make news, talking to me personally, be more careful. I submit to the minutes the printing, which you will also find not from any website, as you described it as "The Fact" or I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u177	That's what you testified to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u178	Listen carefully, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u179	Don't get mad. Calm down. So in the Minutes, from the magazine 'POLITICO' print. If you are currently entering the website of the magazine "POLITICO", you will see the printing and you will see the phrase attributed to you in introductory form. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Introductorys mean, gentlemen, that it gives it to him. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, Mr Mitsotakis, I am glad you say you have never said it. I would be very pleased if, on the occasion of you today, you corrected your repetitive point of view, essentially for traitors and for treason, as far as the different view of this House is concerned. But you didn't, and I'm sorry you didn't. I come to the issue of DEPA and BFL. This is not only the case where you are now asking for ox. That's not just the case. There are many other cases. Because the debts in this company, Mr Mitsotakis, in the PPC, have been created on your own governments. Of course, Mr Kitsakos is well controlled and justice will do its job, but these debts amounted to EUR 90 million, when we took over and went up to EUR 110 million, 115 million. But the debts have been created on your day. And if something is controlled - and justice will be controlled - and if something is done today you are addressing us, it is because in this case, as in the case of MARINOPOULOS, if you remember - that he made his money abroad, while he went bankrupt and wanted to leave thousands of workers on the road - we acted on a single headline, the jobs and the ability to save this business, not the businessman, who was then blackmailing us, if you remember, because he had fired all the workers and blackmailed the government in order to achieve his own interests. And it was me who went and met the workers who were fighting and who were reoccupied because we tried and managed to keep the factory running. And right now, of course, there are procedures, and again, we will move in the direction of the factory, and you will be denied 100% of what you say. But this is not the first time you've done this. I'm coming to the bank business. I am not going to talk about all the other things you have said, because it is reheated, especially as regards what you said about the referendum, it is getting tired of people listening to you. People will judge us all. But why did you mention the issue of banks so persistently? You know, you made two recapitalisations and a lot heavier, with much more money. You did two in a series of recapitalisations. I would like to suggest to you - I recommend it is good - on this issue which is a sensitive issue, the question of banks, when we are talking about being more careful, because in trying to give political responsibility we are creating a problem where the problem is not about the government, but about all of us. I come back now - because I do not want to let it go - to calm tones this time: Mr Mitsotakis, do not try to misinterpret and distort the reality so much in order to put forward a argument which cannot be based on logic. It is legitimate to make a right turn, to fish in the blurred waters of a far right audience, but do not try to distort reality. Whatever we could bring, whatever we could bring, you made a decision, which in some of your interviews you said clearly. And when you go abroad, you say the reality, not in front of the microphones, behind the microphones. You say that it is not that you disagree with the name "Macedonia" or on the substance of the agreement itself, but that you do not want to see your party split for the sake of strengthening Mr Kammenos's party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u180	How do you say these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u181	All of this has been written and said by very formal lips in the past. But, Mr Mitsotakis, you say again, you are turning the same agreement, which you certainly know very well to read legal texts and English as well. You insist on the terms "national" and "nationality", and you are well aware of the difference between the term "ethnicity" and the term "nationality" listed in the Agreement. However, you insist, as you would insist on finding any - but any - excuse to testify to your objection. I remember very good features that Mr Kumoucaskos - I think he is in the Chamber - a few days before the agreement came to an end, and that this agreement would not be concluded unless the constitutional review in the neighbouring country is fully carried out and completed. And, of course, when he found out that we did - and put the cubit there, because he did not expect us to achieve it in the negotiation - then he found another excuse to oppose this agreement. It is a cheap excuse, because I repeat that it speaks of nationality and not of ethnicity and the language, which has been so burning to you, had been recognized since 1977. I also read the statements in the House of Evangelos Averov. Of course, the biggest one of what you have committed today in this House was not so much that once again you tried to divide the Greeks, accusing your political opponents as traitors, but what you disfellowshipped from the Step of the House - and you did not have the elementary equilibrium to get it back - that we traded with the European partners and sold Macedonia. What do the far right guys say? 'Democracy sells Macedonia'. You say: 'No, our political opponents'. Why did we sell it? To win the pensions! I won't get out of my clothes again. I don't get used to it. I did it before not in a theatrical way, as you did before - I guess the communicationists have told you - but because I felt it. But I will prove to the Greek Parliament that you also copy on this issue, Mr Mitsotakis, and that your line is given by your friend shipowner, businessman from his newspaper. Official Journal of the European Communities, dated 14-15 April 2018: ‘Grand of pensions if the scorpion is solved. Berlin's promise to Tsipras'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Here, this is Mr. Mitsotakis' line. It's a feedback and chewed food that's taken from the business friends who own the media. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I close, telling you this: Make an effort to refer to the old and the new one and get into your mouth executives with a great historical route to the area of the centre left and to the area of PASOK, who are now in the area of SYRIZA. Mr. Mitsotakis, listen, in this place - especially in the area of the Central Left and the PASOK - there are men of honor and fighters who fought their years of life for a better Greece, for a better future for this place. We are not going to give these people away to a bankrupt leadership, which led to where this party led. We simple fighters, honest men, not only will we join our struggles and our classes, but we will be next door, as today is in our ranks and next to us in the race for a better Greece, the vast majority of PASOK voters in the 1980s. If that's what you don't like, that's reality. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You can enjoy yourself with various remains of political life that passed through the SYRIZA headquarters and because they had strange relations with half Athens they left the SYRIZA headquarters and now you get them to join yours, to go and to the other half of Athens! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'll hang up saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u183	You can't, Mr. Mitsotakis. It's tritology. The Prime Minister's closing. There's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u184	I can do well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u185	You can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u186	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u187	That's what you understood. I run and not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u188	Speak more politely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u189	He's triangulating and closing the Prime Minister. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u190	Why's he closing? It is not a pre-dated debate. You'll give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u191	Mr Mitsotakis, you have been given the comfort of being able to address matters that have been off the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u192	I understand your irritation. Stop acting as president of SYRIZA. You're President of the entire House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u193	Okay, you said that, too. I'm so sorry. We give free comfort to other parties and other leaders, a debate is taking place and the Prime Minister closes. The Prime Minister has a tritology. There's nothing personal. The honor of someone has not been touched. You understand that. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u194	However, Mr President, I am at the disposal of Mr Mitsotakis, whenever he wants, in the House or in a television conversation. I never denied the dialogue with him on any matter he wanted. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I will conclude by saying this: The old and the new, Mr Mitsotakis, is not so much about the age, but it is about the quality of our route. There are, therefore, people who have been in political struggles and society and political parties through social processes, through social struggles, through political claims, and there are others who have been in political life as heirs, with the sponsorship of other multinational groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u196	That's the old one, and that's the new one. That's the difference between the old one and the new one. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As far as the issue of the Macedonian is not concerned, you know very well - and I close with it - that in a few days' time you will be able to measure your powers, such as the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament are provided for. Time's exploding. In a few days' time, you can already, if you wish, and if you think there is such a great contrast and that this government does not have the confidence of the people and Members of Parliament, you can vote again for a vote of distrust. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So do it. Set up a motion of censure to see how many miscarriages the bag catches. And we'll have as much time as you want to talk, Mr. Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u197	Mr Mitsotakis, I give you the floor for a minute on staff, as far as I can tell, for something inherited earlier hereditary. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u198	What I understand, Mr. Tsipras, is that SYRIZA is the new PASOK. I am glad you finally confessed to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u199	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u200	It just makes me very surprised how you keep from the old PASOK only the good facts and reject all the problematic things. Of course, that is an issue that concerns another party. I don't want to say any more about it. Mr Tsipras, be very careful in this Chamber when we talk about each other's political and personal path.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u201	You referred to names.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u202	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u203	What "no"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u204	You referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u205	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u206	Everyone's personal and family history is known in this Chamber. And mine and your family history are known in this Chamber. Let us not go further into these issues. But, Mr Tsipras, to make it clear, I have not inherited the presidency of the New Democracy. I was voted for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have taken the ring from Mr Alavanos without a vote, which now reminds you of your real past. So when you talk about political heirs in this Chamber, be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. Mr President, to restore the truth, no rings were given to SYRIZA. With a conference and a vote, the Prime Minister has come out. Mr. Kammenos, Chief of Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, first of all I would like to protest strongly because you have devastated the Rules of Procedure of the House and you see what is happening. You do not keep the time of speech, so that the rest of the parties do not even have the right to say in the House. You let an out-of-court dialogue take place, with regard to time, between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff and the other parties have no role to play. I tell you that we have been in this sort of debate lately. We call for the Rules of Procedure to be implemented, and we also call for your respect for all the wings of the House, both for the smaller parties and for the larger parties. The Rules of Procedure cannot be violated at each sitting of the House. Mr. President, Mr. Mitsotakis has left, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u209	And the Prime Minister
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u210	... because he knows very well that I was the first elected MP in 1993 and joined the New Democracy that was then his father, coming from Kostis Stefanopoulos and DIANA. The New Democracy that I served was the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis, Costas Karamanlis, Miltiade Evert, the New Democracy that never cooperated with the extremes. When Kostas Karamanlis was asked to cooperate with the MPs of LAOS, his answer was, "We don't work with the extremes", these extremes, which actually lead you to today's uproar of a historic party. I never sat with Mr. Voridis on the same chairs. I have never been with Adoni Georgiadis or with Pilaris or with all those who today rule and guide the New Democracy, with these extremes that Costas Karamanlis did not cooperate with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u212	But that is not all, Mr President. It is that the New Democracy today, as unfortunately has also been shown during today's debate in the House, has become the political arm of a criminal organisation, which is covered by publishing interests. The Prime Minister showed enough headlines. I would remind you that a few months ago the House held a full sitting on a proposal from the New Democracy for a committee of inquiry based on the dialogue between Mr Giannousaki, a prisoner of drug trafficking. And what did justice prove? Justice has shown that the dialogue on which I was invited to apologize for setting up a committee of inquiry, with a final decision of justice, was forgery intercepted by the ‘NOOR 1 drug gang’. And they didn't say a single apology hadn't come here and say a single apology, to apologise to a Member of Parliament who sat on these benches for twenty years, because they just take a line, because Mr. Marinakis and Mr. Kurtakis are Mr. Vorides, the MP and mentor of the New Democracy! And, of course, we are being attacked with mud from all the means possessed by this criminal organization, the New Democracy political arm of which. And to explain: Ask to come back to power. To bring back who? First of all, for these cases to be filed in relation to criminal organisations. And, of course, I must say here that we have not done what we have to do for the administration of justice. I wonder how it is possible for a felony to be designated as an interrogator within a week and in the case of 'NOOR 1', having been subjected to criminal prosecutions for drug trafficking, drug supplies, drug trafficking - three tons of heroin! - he hasn't yet been appointed an interrogator why isn't Piraeus Court meeting? I ask the Justice Minister to come and tell us. Also, how is it possible that the prosecutor who, by appointment by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, takes up an appeal for settling to be the only judge of the twenty-two, who has opposed the council in favour of Mr Marinakis? Because, of course, the parastate continues to run. Have references to the House and to the media to appoint children of judges to logistical interests, which are likely to coincide with the ones of Mr Marinakis? They weren't checked. So who do we want to see they come here to rule? What cases do we want to close? Karavelas didn't leave for my day because the police command hadn't been read by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't have a villa on Tinos next to Christmas. I do not know, nor will I ever know in my life, the members of NOVARTIS. The Red Cross did not give my daughter or son 300,000 euros to make the fundraiser and they have never opened up companies of my own or my relatives. Mr. Georgiades once yelled here for my father for a pleasure boat. It was checked by the IMO, checked by the CCI and found no. I didn't even hear one apology. Of course we must control the politicians. My father died of cancer. Eighty-six years of entrepreneur, he had never been accused of anything. You humiliated him, checked, acquitted him, but he left life. This kind of practice the New Democracy I met had never implemented. Now these policies are being implemented. And you protest when they control you. You should have the same behavior when you threatened us or, at least, when he came out of the finding, you have the power and the bravery to say an apology. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that today's debate on pension cuts should lead to this debate which has taken place today, with the final issue of pensions, precisely because the ideology and political position of this government is precisely contrary to the ideology and political position of the Civilian opposition. This government took over the sunshine at the place and prioritised the protection of the weakest. We also believed, belonging to a different space from SYRIZA, that the Independent Greeks are the low pensioners and pensioners from the big businessmen and we fought and managed to get the country out of the memoranda and not to reduce pensions. What, though, is the position of Officer Opposition? It's a political position. This is the position expressed by Mrs Miranda Xhafa in her public television meetings. We can't - he says - pay pensioners. This is the neoliberal expression of a policy that ignores the social state - on which, if you like, the radical New Republic of its founder, Constantine Karamanlis - and the sensitivity, by entering into the logic of markets. Die by the retired. Ms. Miranda Xhafa says, reduce pensions or don't give them at all, don't give benefits. Mr. Kyranakis, exactly at the same time that New Democracy tabled the amendment on the non-repair of pensions, had said publicly, "We will look to see if there is a financial space to give pensions". The first time we said that pensions would not be cut. And, of course, that is exactly why we are in the government. And we will be in the government as long as we can - at least what we have agreed on each side - faithful to its principles and values. You've bet everything on the Skopje issue. The position of the Independent Greeks is absolute, clear and from the outset expressed. We do not agree with any solution that contains the name 'Macedonia'. We have said that from the outset. If it is time for our roads to split up, they will be separated because, despite the agreement we had, this is a matter for Parliament, and our vote is needed to ratify it or not. Clearly, therefore, we do not believe in any solution with the term 'Macedonia', as opposed to Mr Mitsotakis. Because I remind you that the godfather of "North Macedonia" is his sister. Dream of the concession of the term "Macedonia", in violation of the Council of Political Heads, is Mrs Dora Bakoyannis. And I call on Mr Mitsotakis to come out publicly now and say that he assumes the political responsibility of not having any solution under the term 'Macedonia' and I will take him by hand to take him to the President of the Republic. But that's what it says in here, and that's what it says out there. It accepts the "North Macedonia" clearly. Secondly, it invokes the subject of language and ethnicity. The Embassy Agreement is dead. And he has died because Mr Zafe himself, despite all the efforts made by the Greek side to find a solution, with his continued statements, annulled the agreement itself. Unless he's made another deal with Mr. Kotzias under the table. He ought to say it in public. Such an agreement, however, we do not know. It is quite clear that while it repeats the words "Macedonian", "Macedonian nation", "Macedonian language", there is no way that such an agreement will be ratified on the Greek side. And I am pleased with the public position taken by the Prime Minister, who made it clear that the Greek side would not accept any interpretation of "Macedonian nationality". We're going further. We say, 'No use of the term 'Macedonia'. And the steps are simple, public and obvious: If the government of Skopje continues to pursue the policy that the government of Skopje is pursuing today, that is to say, for a policy involving the "Macedonian nation" or the "Macedonian language" or more to speak of a "Macedonian minority" within the country, this agreement can never come from any government to be voted on in the Greek Parliament. If, however, for any reason, this agreement comes to the Greek Parliament, we state clearly that the Independent Greeks are leaving the government and the government by a majority. And then I will call on Mr Mitsotakis, before he makes the sluts for the vote on the motion of censure, to state publicly: First, whether he accepts the term 'North Macedonia'? Secondly, if it is voted, will it be abolished if the people ever give it the majority? Because that is how political decisions are taken: straight! The only clear position, beyond the Independent Greeks, is the Association of Centres and Vassilis Leventis, which has cleared its own position from the very first moment. And on that, Mr Leventis, we will be united together. A prerequisite for any decision to be taken, ladies and gentlemen, remains the convening of the Council of Heads under the President of the Republic. Because the last decision taken is under Constantine Karamanlis, with the Presidents of the parliamentary parties. This decision also has constitutional effect. Sunday, then, short celebration. If the New Democracy really believes what it says, it must go to the Step and state it publicly. But if they use Macedonia's name as a means, supposedly, to cause government instability, we tell them to look elsewhere. We will do our duty on the basis of the people's mandate we have. We did so again as Independent Greeks and members of the Government, and when the conflict came with the Church we took the position of the Church and when the conflict came on issues that were a red line for us did not vote in the Greek Parliament, we voted against. With SYRIZA, we do not have a common course in the spectroscope of the political scene. But it unites us very strongly that we were not with Christoforikos, Fruzis and the rest of us in the common living room and did not do business together. The President of the New Democracy accused Mr Tsipras of co-operation with the PASOK. With what PASOK? Did it ever sound like a talk about Spirtzi? Did it ever sound like a talk about Kurubli? Have you ever heard of the PASOK patriotic, Panagiotis Sguridis, who is with the Independent Greeks? The guarded is Mr. Papantoniou, who was defended by the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis personally. At that time, Mr Stournaras was the modernist with whom Mr Venizelos deals with the submarines every day. In this PASOK, the New Republic of Samara gave the alibi and agreed to coexist together in order to cover the scams of the past together. If there was one in a million, SYRIZA, in order to get any support from the former PASOK, to cooperate with executives who had put the finger on honey or had heard anything during their course, the first to react would be us. The Greek people, who believed Andreas Papandreou in 1980, believed in the slogan "Greece belongs to the Greeks". Andreas Papandreou believed in social justice and not in the logic of markets. It had nothing to do with the Shiite gang, which is slowly being brought to the courts. It had to do with the popular movement. It was about the need to restore the law to those affected by the law of the mighty. And this law of the powerless is served by the current government, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I will give the floor to the Vice-President on a personal point. Do you want to wait in the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u215	I'll answer the benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u216	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u217	I won't need a minute. I shall not go into any political issues at all. I have a speech and I'll talk about it there. I'm only taking the floor for staff. I fully respect the honor of your relentless father. I met him for once in my life. He was really a very decent gentleman. But, Mr. Cammene, when you come to this Chamber and you say about your father who left in his eighty six years because they sounded unfair charges, I would like you to think that on Sunday, tomorrow, we have the memorial of the infamous Vasilis Beskeni, who left exactly half of your father's years, at forty-three, with a child of six months. Do you know why? Because he broke out of the false accusations that he was illegally hired to CEDEFOP, which you did in the committee of inquiry with your friend from there. But that's why you didn't have to say a word, Mr. Cammene, because after all it's all about you. And that's the big problem. Theatre is, unfortunately, Macedonia. But that is what I will answer in my speech. If you are inside, you will hear about the day you went to the Patriarch and kissed his hand and swore before God and people that while you are in the government, the name "Macedonia" will never be given. And it is given to the Minister of Defence Panagiotis Kammenos! That's what the story will write, sir, no matter how much you play here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u220	The Greek people see us, hear us and judge us according to our actions. Who will stop this agreement, if he ever comes, will see it. Who goes to Mrs Merkel and says, "Let us say about political consumption that we disagree with the agreement, but we will support it after it has been voted on," the Greek people also know it. Let go, Mr. Georgiadis. Lessons of patriotism, not of me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u222	I should like to welcome the Chamber, the President-in-Office, the Members and the ladies and gentlemen of the House. Today's meeting was another show for two. On the one hand, Mr. Tsipras with his success story and on the other Mr. Mitsotakis who sews costumes and charges as Zorro to understand power. And they listed various things for each other. As far as we are concerned, it is true what Tsipras listed for Mitsotakis and what Mitsotakis listed for Tsipras. It's not a lie. The applause underneath as if we were at the theatre "Aliki", because the applause had no essential political content, it was simply that the viewers were glad to hear the wisdom that the rhetoric said. That's it. The Greek people want to be taken back to Andreas Papandreou - Karamanlis or Site with Karamanlis the youngest, when an endless show took place in this Chamber again. And the country went bankrupt slowly. Appointments from PASOK, appointments from New Democracy, scandals and bankruptcy were constantly before the gates. However, this did not deprive George Papandreou of saying "There is money", he did not deprive Tsipras of saying that he would tear the memorials and Samaras to make the memorial to Zappeio with speeches of fires where everyone was applauding right. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. And the prime Prime Minister was proud of his bounce. And the channels also got some to say, "Even with the 300 euros, in the situation I am, I'm going to smash a hole." Is that people's image? Is it a citizen's image, that they come out and say, 'although with these 300 euros I will smash a hole'? Nice Prime Minister! Good government! You held some development conferences at SYRIZA, where you gathered all the symbians to applaud, in Crete, in Thessaloniki, in Kavala, in various places. Everyone underneath was police officers and officers of the county. What did you want these people to attend the conferences? You laughed at the notion of attendant. You recruited government officials to applaud you. He said the Prime Minister is not afraid to go up to Thessaloniki. But here in Athens, when I come to the House every day, the street of Herodos Attikos is closed with three big hulls. Leave, in Thessaloniki you want a thousand knives and you want a thousand meters away from where the Prime Minister is. In Athens you put three cubes above and three underneath. This is the Prime Minister's contact with the world. I don't know, are you proud of these things? Are you proud of this picture? At one time, Simitis had put the retireds in the head.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u223	And now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u224	And now they're hitting them? Well, thank God we have the JRC and it tells me five things that I ignore, that now they're hitting the head. Well, of course, the Simitis method is a tutor that we should not miss. Where are we going to find a teacher like that, make a scandal at the Stock Exchange and do all these disgraceful things he's done? The Prime Minister said whatever time he wants to go up to Thessaloniki. Rise, Mr. Tsipras, pedestrian in Thessaloniki, to walk to Tsimiki and Egnatia. That's what the people demand, not ten thousand policemen! This isn't climbing! That's how the Germans went up to Thessaloniki, not Greek Prime Minister! About the Bonamats: You get the 300 euros, Mr. Tsipras, pit holes. You are addressing personalities and Greek citizens. You do not address paradoxes and pliers to speak like this. The Greek people have dignity, regardless of whether all these years and she's still been deprived of it. You're saying you're going out on the market. Did SYRIZA officials visit a man of mine who wants to put for mayor in northern Greece and what did they say to him? That "come with us - he says - why there will be elections in October 2019". He responds to them "How will they be done in October 2019 as you go?" It says, 'we will get 400 billion compensation from Germany for the corrections'. Have you reached levels like that? Have you come to say such things? Then you're about things I don't want to describe. If one of your arguments is that you will stay until October 2019 in power and you will get 400 billion from Germany to spend it here and make it ruffles, you are not standing well. That is what I want to say, because this is now ridiculing and the concept of a party, what will the Prime Minister say, if these are being said seriously. I've been caught by a SYRIZA guy and he tells me that the Americans will support Tsipras to the end. The Americans will support him, but why was Mr. Tsipras saddened by the newspapers that he gave Macedonia to win the non-cutting pensions? Since you yourselves are released and you are told. The SYRIZA themselves are released and you say "we will stay until October 2019 in power because the Americans consider Greece to be a major player in the region and will support us". They say that the Americans have decided to put Turkey aside, they have decided to make Kurdish state, and the time runs for Greece. Another Tsipra account now, that the Americans will support him. The man who flew stones and yogurt outside the US Embassy will now base his stay until the last day in power. These are now the ridiculousest. There aren't any! These are arguments SYRIZA's people call them. I have information and I do not say it in this Chamber, and for the 400 billion of German compensation, and for the Americans to support it to the end. People call them prominent in SYRIZA's hierarchy. Mr Varoufakis has now made a party and goes down and makes speeches, etc. But Mr Varoufakis - in this he is right, Mitsotakis - was with Lafazanis Ministers of Tsipras and practiced the country's economic policy. When did Mr Tsipras realize that the only way is for Europe? Because we in the Centroon Union have been taking it from founding, since 1990. When did Mr Tsipras realize that the only way is for Europe? When you said you would scare Europe, that you would change Europe, what did you mean? That there will be a night when either you sign everything and get rid of it or you will blow it all up in the air and wisely choose to sign it. In a wise way you chose not to blow up the banana in the air, but for months this country has been in the hands of people at risk. You must apologise for this thing to the Greek people. The country was in danger and you were enjoying it. On the subject of Macedonia, Kammenos has a point. Before the motion of censure was made last time by the New Democracy, I sent a letter to Mr Mitsotakis and said, "Explain that you will not use the word "Macedonia" and I, despite the fact that, on the right, I have allergies because this government seems ready to go down, I will support you." He didn't answer me. He speaks only of nationality and language. He obviously knows that if he becomes Prime Minister and the Ambassadors' Agreement has not passed, he will be forced by the Americans within one week to vote for the Ambassadors' agreement. But I also have a question for Mr Kammenos. Why is he assimilating to see that Tsipras is going to give the name "Macedonia"? When's he gonna split up his bags? When is he waiting? First he'll give it all up and then he'll leave? I do not understand that, since he disagrees and says, at least, that he disagrees. The most honest thing, Mr. Cammene, is to stop Mr. Chiprah now. Let him find other days! Ashton, if there's any other strays, other parties, etc., look for others. To pass the treaty like this. Three here, two apostates from there, whatever parties they can. But when you give him time, and the other one goes and advertises that he gives it, you become an accomplice, Mr. Cammene. You're not justified in front of the Macedonian people in such behaviour. I mean, you're against treason, but you're supporting betrayal. What's that? Clear things this Chamber and the Greek people want. I see, in all televisions, everyone who talks to a man in the Centro Association - rarely invited - to stop. She says, but in '77 Karamanlis gave the language, but in 2008 Dora and Costa gave "Macedonia (Skopje)". So, gentlemen of SYRIZA, are you satisfied if you are relying on your own cutbacks on others? You say it's a national line. What national line? If it's a national line, go down to the people, tell your views and referendum to see how many will follow. Will anyone follow? Does anyone believe you? You can barely deliver everything. But I'm telling you that responsibilities are being introduced, even criminal. Don't forget. Every act that the Prime Minister and the Minister are doing is undermining. You think that, with the vote here in this House, everything will be over. That's where it all starts. I would remind you of George Papandreou's conversation with the old man, because with the younger I do not want any contact when he went and signed the Zurich and London Agreement, Karamanlis and Averov. They went back to this Chamber and said 'The Cyprus issue'. And the Chief of the Centre Association stands up, George Papandreou, and says that "not only he has not solved it, but now adventures are beginning." I don't have the stature of old-time leaders of the Centre, but I will repeat the same phrase as Mr. Tsipras. Do not think that with such a vote based on apostate MPs from here and there in another party that half the people give, the other half do not give, do not think that by 150-151 there is a vote of size like the Treaty of Ambassadors. Not only do the sufferings end on that day, but from that day on the problem starts for the country, because foreigners will start their plans for Macedonia, and then I want to see Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias from where they will make a mark, because these, ladies and gentlemen, will be done in that country. When others need us now to vote on this Chamber, they talk about nations, minorities, and about a thousand two abominations, imagine after they have taken the vote in the Chamber, what they will do. And imagine the position of Members who will have voted for the Treaty of Ambassadors. A month ago, there was another disgraceful month ago. When Katsifas was murdered, journalists began to spread that he was involved in drugs. Then they didn't say it anymore. Who gave this clue? Did anyone apologize? That is, a Greek-speaking man well or poorly in an exaggerated dose of patriotism did what he did. Is Greece going to go out and say that he's a drug user and that's how we're gonna discredit his offer? Is this the solidarity of the Greek people with the children who are sacrificed? Because here, when I first got on TV the other day, I said "the murder of Katsifa looks like the murder of Solom and Isaac in Cyprus" and was identical. It was pure murder. When Greek politicians, journalists, and speaking of a child trader or drug user were found, they are not in honor of our political world. On all channels, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you take off a right parrot and a left - on some shows you're making three four of SYRIZA - and you won't let anyone else speak. You're right! And when anyone else goes to speak against the polarization you're planning again, while you know how much polarization and bipartementism cost in this country that bankrupt it morally and economically, you want to bring back the same climate as your parrots paid. Because there's no fasting and unpaid parrot to explain. So fight to restore the climate of polarization. The world won't believe you. People have understood for so many years that you've made rosphetias, illegal assignments. You didn't feel sorry for public money. Greece of education is abroad and Greece that stays, Greece that is dragging into the offices of SYRIZA asking for appointment and recruitment, this Greece stayed here. You know, Greece of pride is outside. He turned his back on Greece today. It is shameful for this country that the newspapers come out and say 15 and a half thousand in education, thirteen and a half thousand in health. The country has not even risen up, yet the humiliation of the eight-year memorial tombs is sloppy from Evros to Crete, and you promise appointments, because you have no other way to approach the voters. Promise appointments! That's your only way of getting in touch. A government that creates, produces, developed by a country, this government is loved by the people. The people support such a government. But you still have the plaza poison on your head, the customer poison. It's your only contact with the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u226	And in the Revision of the Constitution, and Mitsotakis said other articles to revise. So no article will catch, so what are you doing outside the yard "Tsipras made a review committee" etc.Huh? What do you do with it if there's not going to be 180? Do you have a job? So you're in a lab of insanity and do exercises if there could be a review? Mitsotakis has in his head others, he's right, he wants to help the capital, and you want appointments. Both of these are corrupt and sick. And appointing the public is sick, but also making immunity private is just as morbid and sick. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that no matter what happens, the Centroon Union has succeeded in restoring the spirit of George Papandreou the old and George Mavros in this Chamber. And the people he hears are not foolish to believe you in your paranoid opinions, about appointments to the public and about private initiatives that will never come, because if New Democracy had the ace of investments, Samaras should have even brought pins. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not saying he was bringing cars to produce the country. Let's pins get Samaras. Because I don't think Kyriakos' IQ is much bigger than Samara's IQ.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u227	In conclusion, Mr President, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u228	I don't think he's much more capable of Cyriacos than Samaras. On the contrary, I'm giving Samara that he's a lot smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u229	Thank you to the President of the Centroon Association. I will give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Ahtsioglou, to develop a number of amendments and then Mr Loverdos will come to Step. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the amendment from the Ministry of Labour, which has a general number of 1838 and a special number of 157. It is an amendment implementing another of the Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki Exhibition. This is an amendment which grants insurance contributions to young workers up to twenty-five years of age. In fact, half of the employers' contribution to basic insurance, to the main pension, and in this way, this provision serves or aims to serve the following two objectives: first, to provide incentives to create more jobs for young people up to twenty-fifths and, second, to enable, by reducing non-wage costs, salaries to be paid higher than those paid to date. It must not be seen as a fragmentary arrangement, it must be seen as a set of interventions and measures taken by this government, so that the unemployment of young people can be reduced, which has been considerably reduced over the last three and a half years. Approximately 12 percentage points have been reduced, but it remains extremely high. We need to see this regulation complemented by other regulations, such as the abolition of the shameful under-age wage for young people, which will be implemented in January 2019 and now the new single-increased minimum wage will apply to everyone, without age discrimination. We must also look at it in addition to the new programmes that we have started to implement from the OAS, which now give wages considerably higher for the high-qualified young people. It is two new programmes, which have already been opened and addressed to some ten thousand young unemployed and which guarantee salaries of EUR 1,000 and over, both in the public and private sectors. Therefore, this regulation, the reduction of employers' contributions for young people up to twenty-five years, must be seen as a vote of the most comprehensive plan we have for recovering work. We continue to develop such actions. We have a long way to go, so that we can reverse the destruction that took place between 2010 and 2014 in terms of work and, in particular, the blow that took place in the new generation, but these steps that we are taking bear fruit and I think they will become more and more evident in Greek reality. As far as the other amendments are concerned, any ministerial amendments that have already been tabled are accepted. As far as the amendments tabled are concerned, only the following are accepted: The overall amendment tabled by Mr Contonis. Amendment No 1844 is accepted and a special 163 regarding the term of office of the management bodies of the dental clubs. He said a few words about this amendment and Mr Blondos. Amendment No 1845 is also accepted and a special 164 tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Gas and Mr Pavlides. These three parliamentary amendments are accepted and those of the ministers that have already been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister. Mr Loverdos, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u232	When will the Members speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u233	Immediately after that Mr Kurublis and you, Mr Igoumenides, will speak, and then we will give the floor to the next parliamentary representative who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, after Mr Loverdos, as a parliamentary representative, I would just like to make a point of order for a moment to the Minister, to ask him something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u235	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u236	Does he want to do it now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u237	If you have no objection, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u238	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Brutsi, you will now take the floor to proceed with the procedure. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u240	Okay. I would like to ask, Mr President, and thank you. I would like, before being a Member of Parliament, to have her reply, in substance, to clarify the amendment concerning reduced contributions for young people, Minister, up to twenty-five years ago. My question is kind and I'll make it more specific. We are, of course, in agreement with the reduction in contributions. It is a decision, an amendment, in the positive direction. But it is not the problem. I would remind you that the question of youth unemployment over time as a structural dimension is a size which concerns all developed countries and that the structural problem of the integration of young people into the labour market is something that permeates the whole world and particularly the countries of Europe. Therefore, incentivising young people into the labour market, either through OAED programmes or incentives through reduced contributions, is in the positive direction. The question I have to make to you is as follows: because the reduction in contributions relates to the employer's contribution to the main pension of 20%, from 13.33% to 6.66%, and the level of the expenditure that it needs, as the Accounting Office says at least, is EUR 51 million, my question is how much this measure is concerned with and whether the people concerned with the amendment are young people up to twenty-five years old who have already been working or are going to join the labour market for over twenty-five years. And I say that, why? After voting on the amendment, there will be issues and you must clarify this today, at least by a statement, if you cannot change your amendment. There will be a mobilisation of young people to join tomorrow in the process of this amendment. So all young people up to twenty-five years in this spirit of the law you are tabling in this House would be the most wise thing to do. One more thing. Because for us the reduction of contributions is a political position, we have said so many times and we say it again: reducing non-wage costs is an incentive and a way of reducing and deviating unemployment more quickly. I propose, Minister, if you may, that we also bring an amendment similar to that of you, so that we reduce the corresponding contribution to workers who have been unemployed for 50 years or more. Because these two categories are particularly affected, young - structural - and the workers of fifty-five years and over who are in the range of unemployment because of the age criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u242	It wasn't a question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u243	I asked who it was about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u244	No, he asked a question, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u245	It concerns all this, namely those who are already working, the young people twenty-five years and the young people who will find a job. It concerns the whole, and the already workers and those who can be hired from the beginning of 2019 to new jobs, and that is why I said that it also serves the purpose of creating new jobs, but also of reducing the existing non-wage costs for companies that already have employees up to twenty-five years old. Now, for the second proposal you are making in terms of reducing contributions to the second equally problematic group of unemployed people from fifty-five years old and over, obviously we could work on it, just the financial data right now for 2019 are very specific. In other words, the budget area, the expansionist, is about 910 million. There has been a very specific distribution of all these positive measures, which we have been proposing to the House in recent weeks, following the announcements by the Prime Minister at the IGC, and they are such that they can fit these measures as a whole without being able to be made in the 2019 budget area at the present time. 2020 is an expansive one, so we can consider it for that time period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Minister. Mr Loverdos, you have the floor for twelve minutes and thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras confirmed today in the wake of his political time that he was lying first and then breathing and addressing the people, as he said today, as if he were addressing ammonia. But the people understand and thankfully the nemesis of the poll is approaching. What did the Prime Minister do today? He presented as a relief from our allegedly small reductions from the increases he made because of the six - month - old Tsipras - Varoufakis, and was lying about undeclared work. From the information we have been gathering all these years from employees in the APRC, undeclared work is growing and has reached 27% from 22% received by this government. Because we have to count as undeclared work and the work that is stated on the minimum wage, but the rest is completed on black, and certainly on undeclared work. These are the issues of today's sitting. However, other issues have been raised, and I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to take a stand here. From PASOK, Prime Minister, they left and went to SYRIZA, not those who were displeased by PASOK's leaderships, but those who were enslaved away from power. They came to you those who cannot without authority, who can't stand it, when their party is smaller or are in opposition. They have approached you in the most dishonest way, in the last few days and in a series of changes to their preferences, even after the elections. Some of them voted on Monday, they didn't vote on Sunday. They're familiar with their names. And keep in mind, Prime Minister, that the hundreds of thousands of people who rally around PASOK and the Change Movement have opinions on politics. And for them you're persona non grata. You're an unwanted politician. Finally, there was a phrase for Mr Simitis. Mr Simitis will speak of even one half of his achievements: the accession of the country to EMU, the arrest of terrorists who have internationally derailed the country and took away human lives, what he has done for the CSCE, which you have crushed and abolished, and of course, the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. Let anyone who achieves something halfway to what Mr Simitis has done take the floor and address any form of criticism to him. Now, today, in a debate on a draft law on specific issues, many positions have been made on the Ambassadors' agreement. What is happening now, ladies and gentlemen, concerning FYROM, has an explanation and none of the majority members are entitled to make the surprise. What you have signed and applauded, you, the SYRIZA MPs, led by your Prime Minister, are the ones that give the basis and the reason for the FYROM Prime Minister to say what he says today. Factors and side effects of your political choice to sign the Prespecies Agreement Greece experiences today. When Mr Zaev clearly highlights what he says about the language and the minority of the Macedonians in Greece, these result from what you have signed and are related to their language and nationality - nationality. That is what you agreed to, and that is where their positions are based today. We have noted that we do not accept the responsibilities arising from this agreement. And it has not been a long time, a few days after the Prespecies Agreement, Mr Zaev has started to draw up the arguments he has put forward to this day, with just the same tone and for the same reasons. However, ladies and gentlemen, following the position of the President of the Independent Greeks today, I do not see much parliamentary majority. That government's been counting for days. The President of the Independent Greeks said a few minutes ago here - unless you can hear it - that when this agreement comes to the House, which is given a timetable, it is withdrawn from the government. So let us all understand that as the start of a road without a return. The government no longer exists. We are now going to this under this draft law. What are you going to do with this draft law, and why are you celebrating? For the non-repayable pension cut for 2019. This gives you the occasion of celebrations. Yes, sir. Is there anyone who'd like to cut the pensions, cut the personal difference? Is there anyone in this Chamber who was in favour of this too hard solution? There isn't. Then why the celebrations? Obviously, because you want to present something. And when you want to present something related to pensions, you must be very careful, because there are numbers that disguise grounds of celebration or arguments allegedly reasonable. There is, ladies and gentlemen, the undeniable truth in terms of the law of insurance and my own Mr Kutrumani, PASOK, 2010, the government of Giorgos Papandreou and the insurance law of Katrugalou. You will not treat Greek and Greek as Ottentotites. They're people who understand well. You won't underestimate them. The figures are those which expose all those who claim otherwise. Let's go to the numbers. I wonder why the majority Members have succeeded against Mr Bratis. Mr. Bratis is a well-known trade unionist, he is a teacher with a course and as a representative of ADEDY he has not only the views of ADEDY but also the numbers available to all Greeks and all Greeks. What did he say at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Social and Economic Affairs? That our insurance law, the government of Giorgos Papandreou, which I had the honour of supporting the parliament, gave far greater rates of replacement than the law of 2016, the law of SYRIZA - ANEL, the law of Katrugalou. My law gave 45.65% of the replacement rate and 33.8% of the SYRIZA-ANEL law, the Katrugalo Law for the 30-five-year replacement rate. That's what Mr. Bratis said. What does the same law, my own law, provide for the replacement rate in forty years? The numbers are indisputable again. It gave 60% of my law and 43.8% of the SYRIZA-ANEL law, the Katrougalu law. And what do you answer that? But your law has not been enforced. But it was not implemented because he was abolished by the infamous policy of Tsipras - Baroufakis with ministers at the time, then, Mr. Army and Mr. Skourletis, who left this law inapplicable. They did not allow the crucial year of 2015 to implement a number of critical provisions. Your responsibility has been this regression. Why are you telling us that? You're telling us that as an argument against us? It's a 100% argument against you, because it's a derivative of your first semester policy of 2015. But beyond the replacement, that law was a law measured by international proportional studies and with tolerances exceeding two, three decades. And because Mr. Katrugalos, when presenting his draft law to you, said various undeniable things here in the House, come and see together three or four very basic issues. We received expenditure on insurance funds for medicines EUR 5.2 billion per year and you received reduced expenditure by EUR 3.2 billion. You only received expenditure of 2 billion. We have received, personally, forty-three different funds in the health sector, and you have received the EEA, the monopsy which can make policies. I received EUR 10.6 billion in total annual expenditure on medicine and health. You received EUR 6.4 billion. I received 14% disability expenses - monkeys some of them - and I delivered 8.5% to you. And with regard to Mr Brutsi's intervention, I want to be perfectly precise: you have received from us all the fight to cut pensions - monkeys. You found them ready. And what was your production? They were some characteristic figures, what I submitted to you in the 2016 budget, based on what the General Accounting Office of the State said at the time. What were you cut back by then? The supplementary pensions of 337 million. Of the new AS 48 million. From the abolition of CSR 900 million until 2018. Then it was less than half. The reduction of the new pensions of 345 million. Reductions in unpaid single 133 million. From the pension ceiling of 38 million. From a reduction in family benefits of 21 million. And 708 million then, plus how many others have been added, by the increases in contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 our policies follow. And our criticism has a continuity. Four hundred thousand pensioners with a sum of principal and supplementary pensions of more than EUR 1180 have suffered cuts. Three hundred and ninety thousand beneficiaries of CSR have lost the CSR. Two hundred and forty-five thousand pensioners saw their supplementary pensions cut, many 40%, 50%. Two hundred and fifty thousand civil servants who were insured after 1993 and who will be retired in the next fourteen years will receive a reduction of 15% to 20% from the current regime. Thirty thousand pensioners who came to the pension from July 1st 2015 to May 12th 2016 lost protection of pension thresholds until the end of the 67th year and for the later period the thresholds were reduced by 20%. Two hundred and sixty-five thousand young pensioners see their pensions reduced from 15% to 30%. Two hundred and eighty - five thousand public pensioners lost half of the dividends they received. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are truths that do not justify festivals, but impose wisdom and moderation. They also require you to ask for an apology. You interrupted a course in 2014 to produce new weights. And when the time has come for four years to decide some reductions from your own measures, you present these reductions as alleviations to our own policies. But how much lies are you gonna lie to? Doesn't lie have a limit anymore? The numbers are the ones who disprove you. Shouldn't you at some point get serious about seeing if there's any room for communication for the next day for the country? Because the polling time is approaching. And this day and time of the poll will be the day of the Greeks and Greeks. It will be the day of your judgment. Citizens will speak. The political connections will change and the country will fight to return to normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Kourublis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, a few hours ago we experienced moments of tension and diversion. It is truly sad to hear words in this Parliament as if some were the patriots and others the traitors. History is known. But I do not really want to throw oil into the fire, because you can say a lot about these kinds of excesses. For these divisions in the altar of return to power put the country in great dilemmas and great reflections. And these descriptions have been heard many times from this particular party here, not only in SYRIZA. My friends forget, old comrades at PASOK what they said about Andreas Papandreou once in '89. I don't want to remind them of them, because they weren't many Andreopandrians of them. He was with the Shemite. What Simitis heard from this party is also known. Those who now speak from the Step of the House found nothing to say about Mr Mitsotakis. It's all right. Tsipras said it all wrong. But I will tell them one word: if anyone wants to go to the right, he doesn't have to vote on these people. He votes for the right-wing candidates. We will see where this great democratic party will lead with that logic. They must know that the future of this area is convergence. You want convergence with dialogue? Do you want programmatic convergence that SYRIZA should also come to? Sure. But not to think that it's all about Tsipras and SYRIZA and not to have the bravery to admit the mistakes that have been made. I mean, randomly, the country was found on this adventure? When I said it in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, because of the conflict, no one dared to talk about the government of the right and of Karamanlis. I had to protest to the then director of PASOK for the inertia of PASOK MPs against the insults of Andreas Papandreou. Mr President, today we are coming here to discuss a bill that really starts slowly to create some hope in the soul of the Greeks. So look at what's going on in France. The walls may have fallen in Berlin twenty, thirty years ago, but within European societies anti-social walls, outside which the unwanted neoliberal logic which, unfortunately, has often been blocked by socialist parties in Europe, is being swept away. And we see Sarkozy, Olad, and today Macron's policies evaporate and millions of people living the spectrum of social exclusion, being at the core of extreme poverty. So it must be the fate of the fatals? There's no hope for these people? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, there is an attempt, after all the calamity found in the homeland, to vote for provisions that really support programmes that life itself has justified. The "Help at Home" program really, despite the problems it had over the years, proved that it was an extremely positive conception that had taken place in '95, when the Ministry of Health was Cremastino, Skulakis and I had the honour of being Secretary General of the Welfare Secretariat. These programmes are indeed today with this government not only justified, but the people who served in this area today are gaining security, because they are now actually promoting the permanentisation of all this staff. Secondly, the famous ingenuity of some - who come here and think that the Greek people have a memory of gold - of the minimum wage is abolished. And not only is this thing restored, but now the government is aiming to help reduce the insurance contribution to facilitate the integration of young people into the production process. We've been saying that for ten years, and it's not happening now. Ladies and gentlemen, even in the Constitution, SYRIZA's proposal is to cure these kinds of issues so that these nightmare days do not come back. And we're going to retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u250	Colleague, if you'd like, finish up, because you've reached seven minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u251	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you honestly believe what you say when you go to Stepma? The main pensions have been cut 12 times. I can testify to the laws, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u252	And seventeen with SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u253	Please, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u254	The Greek people hear you. Even 1 euro has not been cut into the main pensions. I'll tell you what was cut off, because I'm not afraid to talk to the truth. There was a cut in subsidiary and CSR. Can you tell me who imposed these laws? Now, after me, ask why and tell what law imposed the cut-off of the CSCE. For you say it, but the Greek people must know who voted for the cut in the EVS and they imposed it with the institutions and who voted for the cut. Not only did you cut pensions, but I will remind you, because you are coming and telling the Pontius old words, with what act of legislation you have cut the pensions of the Pontius and the North-West. You guys talking about patriotism! You cut the pensions to the old people who defended Greece's conscience in Pontus, Soviet Union and Albania, in Northern Epirus. So you come and talk and cry on various issues that have arisen in the last period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Curublis, you're embarrassing me. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, not reducing pensions is an important attempt, resulting from the government's negotiation. It doesn't mean we saved the world. There are a lot of things that can be done, but this government has priorities and the first priority is that of the crisis. They're talking to them first. And after he's backing them up, he'll slowly go further. But he has hierarchies. So that's where the tax money, which you're not supposed to impose, goes too. You were the ones who crushed the middle class. Do you forget about them? Who imposed ENVY and all these measures? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u259	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u260	I take the floor on staff rather than on the substance, because other colleagues will speak on the ground and answer Mr Kurublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u261	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u262	Listen to me. Mr President, as far as the CSCE is concerned, there is the indisputable reality that proves it. We kept it up, because it was the aid that made people from members of a lower class, members of the middle class, and they came and toweled. And I presented the numbers. They had 900 million dollars of money from that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u263	About the personal issue, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u264	The reason why I ask you to speak, and I will be in the minute you gave me, despite the holidays, is this: people who cooperate with politicians who accused Andreas Papandreou of terrorist and leader of 17 November, are not entitled to address us. They must be a little embarrassed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u265	That's not personal, Mr. Loverdo. Still...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u266	The Greek people know who defended Andreas Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u267	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I welcome the fact that in the amendments announced by the Minister that it accepts, it is the amendment that solves questions over the years and the timing of workers in JHA, including the JHA of Heraklion. Ladies and gentlemen, how we planned this, in how we tried it in August 2018, we managed to close the cycle of budgetary adjustment. This was a major political success of our Government, it was a major success of society, which, in its majority, one or the other, one way or another, but the majority of it actually contributed to this course. Today, more mature than the experience of this effort, we come to design Greece after the memorials. Our main objective is to heal the wounds of society. Part of this objective is today's bill, it is all the others that, whether we have legislated or planned to legislate, from the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, the reduction of insurance contributions, the growth that will come - a small one, but an increase - in the first decade in pensions and so on. In all this, ladies and gentlemen, opposition has been opposite. Those who led the country on the rocks and the economy on the first and second memorials, in fact with an excess of political hardship, came to claim that we were able, they say, to get out of the memoranda, but we did not have time to act on the fruits of our efforts, because SYRIZA came. On these two lines how many, really, political inaccuracies are there? First of all, is the economic success of leaving the Memorandums, minus half a billion, with which the state funds left? Is the economic success of coming out to the markets of less than EUR 1.1 billion, which the four hundred thousand unpaid pensions have been charged by the insurance funds? Or is it a success of less than 25% of the country's GDP and the increase in unemployment to 27% or 28%? Secondly, SYRIZA came and stopped them this successful course. Apart from having such a success, blindly failing in front of her, SYRIZA came and stopped this course. Is that how SYRIZA came? The Left, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, did not come on its own, so detta thinking. The social struggles have brought us into positions of government responsibility. In positions of government responsibility, we were brought by the workers. Mr Mitsotakis admitted it a moment ago in the debate. He said: "You came by riding the wave of rage." That's exactly how he said talking to the Prime Minister. And he even attacked the Prime Minister because he sold this wave of wrath. I would like at this point to refer a reference to people who are likely to be watching, who - for various reasons - record bitterness, record frustration, record the defiance of hopes - were driven by this wave of anger in demobilisation. Do you really think, friends and friends, that Mitsotakis, the Chief of the New Democracy, wants to defend the wave of anger that brought us to the government? He's also afraid of your reintegration into the movement. It is addressed to you, essentially, to prevent you from re-engaging, to re-activate you. And by closing this parentheses, as the Left did not come, detached, into government positions, so you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the previous governments, did not come now. Rule this country. So you appear today as mediators. Good. Tell us what you reject from what the Samara - Venizelou government did? What are you not going to do again? What else do you have to do? What are you gonna fix? And because you are not answering these questions, are you planning to save the country by continuing this government's programme? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to conclude this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u269	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u270	Your opposition account has been disproved. In my opinion, two things may mean either you cannot see and appreciate the reality that we are living on, that is, political inadequacy, political inability, or you can see it, for example, that, with the measures taken by Greece, you will be on the markets, but because it is not in your interest to have your opposition speech, you claim the opposite until you are disproved. We are talking about political misery here. Whether as a political incapacity or as political athletics, you cannot inspire society anyway. Your Chief of State with his presence here today, picture and uniformity of exactly your opposition speech, deals with issues of high political fuss but of very low political value. With the conspiracy of mass media to you, yes, there is a lot of fuss. However, your proposal fails to give a comprehensive proposal to society for the development of the country, for the development of Greece of the new era. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we leave you to the misery and misery of your shallow political speech. With the living forces of society we are moving forward, we are building Greece of the new era and you can be sure that we will succeed, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are on number seven of forty-five speakers on the list. The time fixed under the Rules of Procedure is five minutes for each speaker. So far you've all exceeded him. Let us try to adjust your speeches to the five-minute, with the relative low tolerance that the Bureau gives, but do not abuse the time. Otherwise we will be able to get through at midnight and there will be no president. We had estimated that the meeting would go by 21:00 or 22:00 at the most. You understand that the Presidents of the groups have also spoken, they have been delayed in time. But please inform the parliamentary groups and those who are left to respect the time. I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Papanatsiou, to develop two amendments. Immediately after that, Mr Karathanasopoulos will be given the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. We will continue with two speakers, Mr Vardakis and Mr Thraniotis. Mr Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, Mr Besiropoulos and Mr Sarakiotis will be followed. This is how we will be going, alternately, with the Parliamentary Representatives per two speakers - most of them have reduced time, because the Heads of their Parliamentary Groups have spoken - so that we can complete the process in a reasonable time. So please show a relative respect for all my fellow Members for your time. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes and then Mr Karathanasopoulos will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I will be brief. With regard to Amendment No 1852 and special 171, the proposed regulations of the first three articles deal with organisational and operational matters relating to the Directorate-General for Budgetary Control of the General Accounting Office of the State. The fourth article regulates wage issues for doctors of the APRC in order to maintain their wage correspondence with the PHS doctors and regulates the payment of representation expenses for the purposes of equal treatment with PHS members who hold positions of responsibility, The third case is doctors of General Medicine and Biopathology who serve in the Departments of Health of Decentralised Administrations and Regions, respectively, with doctors of the ERC. In the fifth article, on the basis of the proposed arrangements, the procedure for sending supporting documents to the Court of Auditors is amended in the context of a repressive, therefore a sample check and a table is proposed instead of the bodies of payment entitlements to reduce bureaucracy and administrative costs and focus on high-risk expenditure control. In the following article, a necessary amendment to Law 4270/2014 on Public Accountancy is required in order, for example, to align the implementation of the Public Investment Programme with the major categories of the new single economic classification of the State Budget, to redefine the individual deadlines for sending supporting documents for the payment of costs incurred in the context of public trade, but also to strengthen the systematic sequence of the provisions of the Act through clarifications and legal improvements. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I now come to the next article on the amendment. There are provisions in Law 4514/2018 concerning the authorisation of the market operator. Here the minimum share capital was EUR 20 million. We are going to reduce it to EUR 5 million, and that is because at European level it is the minimum amount of EUR 4.02 million, and the maximum is EUR 12.7 million. This is an adjustment that is deemed necessary in order for the market to be attractive to participants but also effective in its operation. Article 8 of the Amendment is suspended for another tax year, i.e. until 31 December 2019, the taxation of goodwill from a transfer due to property, provided for by the provisions of the Code on Income Tax, for reasons of strengthening the property market in a critical period for the recovery of the Greek economy. The next article extends for another year, i.e. until 31/12-2019, the non-adjustment of rents paid by the public and public bodies. This article appears necessary as the real estate market comes out of the multiannual crisis that it entered in 2010, but is still at a transitional stage of stabilisation. This is why there is a need for a period of adaptation, especially in the field of professional property, which is offered for the housing of public services. For these reasons, a measure is proposed to maintain fixed rents already paid by the State for housing public services for another year. The last two articles of the amendment include in our legislation Directive 2017/2399, which is an amendment to Directive 2014/59, known as BRD, regarding the classification of the requirements of unsecured legal instruments in the event of a specific liquidation of a credit institution. The second amendment, which is the general number 1851 and special number 170, concerns the amendment of the National Customs Code. We are amending Articles 91 and 93 of the National Customs Code. In particular, we come to Article 91 of the Customs Code and say that the rate of the Special Consumption Tax imposed on the products referred to in Article 90 is EUR 0 (0). This is our well-known excise duty on wine. We're removing the order. There is no provision in the budget for a Memorandum of Understanding which takes its end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u274	Then you'll take the floor, Mr. Vlalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u275	Then, Mr. Vlavo. You also have a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u276	I would like to say about the amendment that the Minister mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u277	Here's the Minister, Mr. Vlalo. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u278	Madam Minister, you should be ashamed, but I do not know whether you still have this capacity of shame, with this amendment you are bringing. It is thirty-five pages of amendment tabled 40 minutes ago, together with twenty other pages of accompanying material. Shame on you! You've got to drop it! This procedure is unacceptable, that is to say, you have no limit. You have exceeded the threshold of the previous governments. That's it, that's it! Because it has become bad with last minute's unnecessary amendments to bills independently. We can't even study them. An amendment speaks of ten different things, it is an amendment - a bill. He is also embarrassing and we denounce this two-party "dog fight" that we watched a moment ago between Tsipras and Mitsotakis, between SYRIZA and New Democracy. And the Bureau is responsible, probably the President of the House who was here, and has allowed such a dog fight to develop. And we say that because we lived moments of scenes of the past. And, of course, both Tsipras and Mitsotakis resort to the past because they fear the future. That's why they've been resorting to the past. This is precisely because this is not the first time that we have had in recent years, in violation of the basic Rules of Procedure, and because, in future, this moment will also be repeated - and, as far as we are approaching the elections, we will see similar phenomena again - the President will state very clearly and take note of the fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will consider whether to legitimise with our participation and our presence, because there are some limits. It is not the Parliament's case of the two gladiators in a Roman arena, which in essence is the people and these two are the lions that will destroy the people. Why are you following this process of meaningless, greedy controversy? It's very simple. To cover up the substance. What's the point? It's that SYRIZA and New Democracy you agree. You agree with PASOK at the same time and you want to cover up this agreement. Where do you agree? You agree that capitalist growth needs should be met to support competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And you have brought and brought laws such as the one for strategic investments, where you provide new scandalous privileges to strategic investments, when you slash people's income. You both agree with the three and the others in implementing the anti-popular policy of the European Union. You agree that the presence of the Americans and NATO in the Balkans, the Western Balkans and the region should be strengthened. You agree, New Democracy and SYRIZA, that these designs should be facilitated. And a vehicle of these designs is the Prespecies Agreement, to implement the American-American plans to re-size markets, to control the wealthy sources, to change borders. And the Embassy Agreement opens up the bourgeoisie. You agree, SYRIZA and New Democracy, that Greece must become a signifier of US planning and an endless base of US camps. You agree that the geostrategic position of our country must be upgraded through this process, so that capitalist companies can also take a small part from the prey of the Western Balkans to strengthen their position. You agree on the resumption and immunisation of the civil system, because such are the proposals you make, too, by SYRIZA and New Democracy for the Constitutional Review. You agree, New Democracy and SYRIZA, to anti-Alpine barbaric policy. PASOK, for example, the king’s king, voted for all three Memorandums. The New Democracy legitimised the first and voted the next two. SYRIZA legalised the first two and voted for the third memorandum. And you're fighting about who's charged more or less to the people? Tsipras made some numbers. The burden of the people was EUR 74 billion in total and not a single one. You keep burdening him. Now the question is whether it was the EUR 65 billion in New Democracy and the EUR 9 billion alone in SYRIZA? It was cumulent. The SYRIZA Government has also legalised the EUR 65 billion anti-grassroots measures of previous governments. He didn't relieve the people from anything and not only did he relieve him, but he loaded him into his hump and more from it. You agree on matters of insurance. Your children, children of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA are the insurance laws. Just what did SYRIZA do? Continued, legalised the previous reinsurance laws and brought an abortion reinsurance law. Now if it is thirty the reductions accepted by the main pensions over all these years, if it is thirty-five, and if it was one by New Democracy and PASOK and ten by SYRIZA, it has nothing to do with this, because all these reductions have been legitimized by both government and opposition, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You've legitimized them all, one by one! And, indeed, you just arrived to bring this reinsurance abortion, the Katorugalou law. And what's that abortion doing? It reduces the replacement factor. From 70%, 80% that was once taken to 35%, 33%, 43%, and there was a huge reduction in pensions. And you're saying you didn't reduce pensions and you have the nerve to claim it? How old was the minimum pension 15 years ago? He was 716 euros with the CSCE. Today how much is it? It's 413 euros. You have cut 300 euros from the minimum pensioners, from the minimum pension. And you're saying you didn't do anything? But what else should you do? You got him! Above all, what's up? You broke down and abolished the logic of the redistributive character of social security and turned him into a reward and individual responsibility. 'Pinochet', have you brought 'Katrugalou', so that you give something grim, the national pension, the EUR 368 - how much is it with today's data? - and from there, if they have the insurance funds. So, in other words, you are turning the insurance and pension case into individual responsibility, so that workers in private insurance, supplementary insurance, may resort. And additional insurance, who are providing? Private insurance companies, whether through private contracts or through professional funds, which will be diluted. And that's why it's no accident - because of course the joy of hiding is not letting you hide - that you brought a law not to remove personal differences, and you also bring fifty laws that form a favourable field for private insurance companies to act. Where are they going to act? In this abort, the insurance policy of the Katrugalo. This reinsurance abortion will be exploited by private insurance companies to increase their profits. So here is what the result of your policy is! And from this point of view, therefore, the raid you are making, the totalitarian attack carried out by the workers and the insured is carried out in a vehicle and on the pretext of sustainability. So, what do you do with this vehicle and the pretext? You also reduce by EUR 935 million government funding in insurance funds in 2019. And not only do you reduce state funding, but you also reduce the total pension expenditure by EUR 275 million. And those who will suffer the reduction are, above all, the main pensions. The main pensions will be reduced by EUR 350 million in total for 2019. What relief is that? That's a deteriorating situation. And from this point of view it is important - to speak clearly now and not to hide behind our finger - to say that you are not going to remove the personal difference. What did you propose, however, as a compensation and accepted by the Commission on bases and branches? The ‘freeze’ of all pensions until 2022. So what does the Commission say in its report? It reads: ‘In addition, the proposed pension freeze by 2022 is expected to lead to the same level of pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP in a stable state – compared to the result of the planned cuts’. So the same financial effect will be, once again, all pensioners will be asked to pay for the financial viability of the insurance funds. And in this direction, you are abolishing a series of countermeasures of a social nature, as you have called them, amounting to EUR 1.7 billion: the expansion of school meals in Kaidas, the creation of nurseries for children of popular families, the subsidisation of the participation of pensioners in medical expenses. All this has been abolished. What, though, is not abolished? The measures that strengthen what you have as the supreme god and value, competitiveness and capitalist profitability. So you tax workers, pensioners and self-employed people to reduce the tax rates of business groups. You are taxing the people to reduce the tax on economic elite. That's what you're doing. The government of SYRIZA reduces the taxation of economic elites. How does it reduce it? With the 15% reduction to 10% of the distributed profit tax. A 10% tax on economic elite, 22% tax on pensioner, employee, self-employed and farmer. So here's what your class tax system is. You say - here to see political charlatanism! - that with the amendment which you will be requesting today you are supporting young workers. How do you support them? By subsidising employers' contributions, i.e. subsidising industrialists, entrepreneurs, bankers, shipowners, to have cheap young workers. You are subsidising and supporting the new worker. Let's not go crazy! Don't let words lose their meaning! What about what? With the promise that you'll abolish the underpaid wage. That's a promise. And Mr. Tsipras came out here, and what he didn't say about the underpaid salary! For four years why didn't he do anything? Four years she's a prime minister. Why didn't he do anything about the underpaid payroll? I repeat: it's promised. The Commission's report reveals you. On page 10 it says that if we do not wish to maintain the minimum wage, it considers that the final decision on this issue should only be taken after full impact analysis, which will demonstrate that the potential impact on employment prospects for young people will be limited. He tells you: we have to agree, if we do not agree, you do nothing. And that, of course, so that there is no impact on the competitiveness and strengths of the capitalist economy. That's why you haven't abolished him for so many years. I told you before: your god is the competitiveness of capitalist businesses. The Minister spoke before about the loss suffered by the workers in the period 2010-2014. Except this ruin, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you legalized him. The Brutsi Act is "Vrutsi-Achtsioglou Law" today and you took him further. In this respect, the vote being formed is a vote on a soil which leads to even greater exploitation of workers. The Prime Minister said that we are paying attention to the reforms. What are these reforms? Those who give scandalous new privileges and create even more favourable ground for business groups. You have, of course, made other reforms, such as, for example, increasing the obstacles to proclaiming a strike. Your work is this, your spectacular reform is to increase the obstacles to proclaim a strike, so that the courts in 99% of cases declare them illegal and abusive. And you're talking about the work jungle and you're saying the APR is increasing controls? That is not the case with the official figures. I will submit the latest 2016 APRC report. We have 2018 and the APRC has only come out by 2016. What does this report show? Checks are down. It was in 2014 twenty-six thousand seven hundred seventy-three and in 2016 it was twenty-four thousand four hundred twenty-two. We have a reduction in controls on the governments of Tsipras. We have a reduction in fines that have been put on businesses from EUR 5 million to EUR 3.4 million. And what else do we have? Increase in fatal accidents at work. From sixty-three in 2014 to seventy-three in 2016. I am presenting to the minutes the relevant page from the report by the Labour Inspectorate, to see the data from the work jungle that you support or cause. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This working jungle and the previous and current government has now led to this: Your advisor - and the current and previous governments - the International Labour Office has taken a report saying that the average wage in Greece is falling on an annual basis of 3.1% from 2008 to 2017. Who was the government in 2008? The New Democracy. Who was the government in 2009-2011? PASOK and New Democracy. And then SYRIZA. By 3.1% the average annual wage in the private sector was reduced. That's your job. Admir it! In a decade, that is, it lost over 31% of the average annual wage - more than it is because it goes cumulatively - in the private sector. And you celebrate about it. Why? Competitiveness must be shielded. I shall conclude, Mr President, with only one phrase on the amendment to the 'Help at home' programme. Does the government assure us that any of the current workers in the Home Aid Programme will not lose their job, that everyone will remain in their jobs? We want this assurance from the government. We will, of course, be placed in detail what we will do during the vote. In conclusion, this dog fight is to encroach on popular consciences, to reduce the demand in a poor house and not demand anything else from the people and the working class, not to demand that their needs be met. So the reward for the sacrifices that the Prime Minister has said is the new sacrifices, the continuation of sacrifices. So you reward the sacrifices made by the Greek people, with new sacrifices even more serious, to shield competitiveness. We say clearly: Instead of looking for workers, pensioners, bio-populists, differences between PASOK, SYRIZA and the New Democracy, let them make a difference today, decisively strengthening the JRC, in order to strengthen the popular counter-attack for a more general break and overthrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u279	Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, I have asked to speak on one amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u281	What exactly do you want? There is also your parliamentary representative. He can intervene or ask, Mr. Vlalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, a sixty-page amendment was tabled with ten articles. We do not have the opportunity to discuss this amendment. She can't come after seven hours of conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Vlao, I completely understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u284	No, you don't understand me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u285	I understand what you have asked for. I repeat, however, that there is your parliamentary representative who can speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u286	As President-in-Office, I would like you to request the intervention of the President of Parliament in order to withdraw the amendment. It's a whole bill. If you insist, obviously here we do not know what we are voting on. Inform the President and intervene. It can't go on any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u287	The Bureau does not insist on that. Mr Vardakis, you have the floor and I would ask you to keep the five-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have also heard this today. Some colleagues feel, he says, proud because with their signature the workers of the "Help at Home" programme are permanently employed. Who are those who feel proud today? They were the ones who had all these workers hostages for thirteen years. There's really stiffness. Last September, from this moment on, the Step I had told colleagues from Anti-Population not to build a record on pension cuts, because they will be exposed. You've been exposed. I'm curious what your new account will be. If you rebuild a account on tax reduction, from now on, we tell you that you will still be exposed. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of our Government since the first day we have taken over the governance of this place was to drive the country out of memoranda, after the budgetary adjustment programmes have been completed. Unfortunately, for some people here today, the fact that pensions will not be cut from 1-1-2019 will not be cut. For us, again, it's an energy with a clear social sign. Also, a major issue is the return of retrospectives to special wages, the reduction of insurance contributions to freelance professionals, young scientists and farmers. All these measures will give a very great breath to the daily life of the Greek family. It is truly distressing, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, just because you have bet on the government failure, to deceive the Greek people who have lifted most of the burden on their backs in the years of the crisis. And today when we give a breath to pensioners, workers, insurers, you continue the same record. We promised the Greek people that we would get the country out of the memorials and do it. We promised that we would lift Memorandum measures and indeed promote targeted tax relief and strengthen the social state. This government received a bankrupt country in 2015 and managed to pull it out of the crisis. This government has reduced unemployment from 27% to 19% and has acted after 15 years of permanentization of 'Help at Home', a structure which is now an integral part of society. This government has been building a social state since 2015, with primary care, access to health of all uninsured citizens, school meals, children's allowances, rent benefits, social solidarity income, transport equivalent, more nurseries, recruitment of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, it is time for those who have risen up because of your unfavourable policies so far the burdens of the memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, we are saying this once again: yes, we were unable to implement our own programme in 2015. Not because we didn't want to, but because the destruction of your unbalanced policies was huge. We have, however, tried with steady steps and hard battles and created the prospects. We managed to get the country out of the memorials with society upright. Who can forget black propaganda, assisted by the media since March 2015? 'Greece on the rocks'. You were asking for elections. "The evaluation is not closed, elections now," you said. "It takes day after day the country, elections now." 'They break down the insurance funds'. ‘The pensions will not be paid’. 'Elections'. "To leave the worst government of all times," you said. 'Tsipras' mocks you. ‘The reduction in pensions is not abolished but suspended’, you said until the day before yesterday. Yes, you have a bet. Yesterday he told us from Tripoli - if I am not mistaken - Mr Mitsotakis that SYRIZA has impoverished the Greek people over the last three years. Mr Mitsoitakis, you should consult Mrs Bakoyannis - and if you do not trust Mrs Bakoyannis, your current Secretary - to see what they said a few years ago about the impoverishment of the Greek people and the downfall that she was at the time. Your governments were then blamed by Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Aygeakis. Mrs. Gennimata now tells us that we took from the Greek people ten and give him one. And Mr Mitsotakis has been repeating it regularly lately. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. You left nothing to get from the Greek people. You left only unemployment, poverty, depreciation, social ruins. In the budget we will say how much and what you have taken from the Greeks. It's neither ten nor twenty. It's a lot more. Just like Mr. Mitsotakis is confusing Exarchia with Syria, so you have confused times. I would remind you, therefore, that in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, you ruled in 2014. And you were judged by the Greek people from those years that lost 25% of GDP and experienced unprecedented rates of unemployment and poverty. In 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, which we govern, we managed to restore the lost dignity of the Greek people and we will be judged for this at the end of the four-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u289	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u290	And allow me one last thing, Mr President: Mr Mitsotakis said that he would fight corruption and conflict. I don't know if he's kidding us, or if he means so. But if he means so, he must look around him in his own governments. And because he also presented a group of people, with pictures, who left PASOK and went to SYRIZA and in it is my photo, I would like to tell you that in today's government, Mr Mitsotakis, there are neither Tsohatzopoulos nor Fruits nor Anthopoulos nor Mandelis or Papantoniou. The Greek people see this every day. We'll all be judged on the result. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Sparta. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. With this plan - transparency, it seeks to restore the country's credibility internationally in order to stand as an equal international speaker and leader in the fight against corruption. Who says that? Mr. George Sourlas. When does he say it? In 2013. So what credibility does Mr Mitsotakis seek to restore? If he pursues this unreliableness, then he is welcome. With L.4387/2016, the major change of the insurance system took place in a single entity, EKKA, and its viability was ensured. It is obvious that any change of such scale poses risks for errors and omissions, weaknesses and delays due to intrinsic weaknesses. Law 4472/2017 established, in the context of the second assessment and with the insistence of the International Monetary Fund, on the basis of erroneous estimates and forecasts - it was not the first time - to reduce the personal difference. The successful completion of the third assessment, the achievement of the objectives, in particular the primary surplus of 3.5%, which is judged and exaggerated - but let us not forget that you have committed yourself to a surplus of 4.5% - allows legislation to remove the personal difference. It is a success that has been credited to the government, despite the criticism of the Opposition and, above all, the New Democracy side, where it has been embarrassed for two reasons. The first is why he overturns the account he had invested politically in cutting personal differences. The second reason why it would come out of the difficult position for her to move forward with the cut that is and the proclaimed position of neoliberal policy. It is those positions which forced the Vice-President of the New Democracy to give up the Commissioner for European Economic Affairs, Mr Moscovici, in the Senate Hall, when he stressed from the Stepma that it was not necessary to cut pensions. It is precisely the same view expressed by Mrs Xafa, when she recently told a television channel that the non-reduction of pensions is an anti-development measure, and she also stressed that they are high. No one can blame her. I can barely support what he believes. It says what you want to say, but you can't. The eight-year period of the memorials left the shadow to the majority of Greek society, a period that came as a result of the policies pursued over the past few years. It is the period of the squandering of public money, corruption, hatred, loans with a pledge of air, loans from your parties with global originality to guarantee future rates. It's the time when you identified the state with yourself. This arrogant behaviour led the country to bankruptcy, and that is something that is not questioned by anyone. It is the period in which the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership was invoked to justify the reduction in wages during the same period. "We have wasted..." - he says - "... pensions because there was a deficit of EUR 35 billion in budgets." That's half the truth. The other half is this: who created this deficit? Where did this money come from? Who's to pay for it and who paid for it? They should be given answers. It is the reason for the loss of 25% of national income, wage cuts and pensions, to increase unemployment to 27% between 2010 and 2015. It is the period during which, in the name of development, it is institutionalised - who was the instigator? - the minimum wage for workers under the age of twenty-four. And then we have the question why our young people are migrating. With the exit from the memoranda, it is obvious that new prospects are being opened. The non-reform of pensions, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, the abolition of the minimum wage and the increase in the minimum level, the strengthening of local government with the amendment which has already been tabled for the permanentization of workers at the "Help at Home", education and health with permanent staff, the strengthening of the social state is a priority. These are all measures which do not heal the wounds left by the memorials - which is why it will take time - but they are indicative of the government's political choice in contrast to your own policies that led to the great majority of the Greek people in deep poverty and poverty. These are difficult to forget, especially for those who still dream of policies in the direction of'more for the few, less for the many.' Allow me, Mr President, to conclude from this step by expressing my thanks to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, for granting the peace courts to the municipalities of Agios Nikolaos and Germiads. Let me remind you - because I served local government - that since 2004 we have been claiming contagious buildings in the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos. By personal letters to the former Prime Ministers, Kostas Karamanlis and George Papandreou, we asked for these buildings to be granted, when there were no memoranda and commitments, but there was nothing that today exists: political will. We, despite commitments and difficulties, will continue to demand them with greater optimism this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u293	Mr Tsiaras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have been in the last six months of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And apparently the last half of the SYRIZA is similar to the first half of the year, both in populism and hypocrisy. We have all witnessed the previous debate - I mean, during today's day - where, unfortunately, the Prime Minister, in a way that is more or less in line with his own practice and his own logic, on the one hand, attempted to give positions to the President of the New Democracy which had absolutely nothing to do with the reality - and, on the other hand, I am referring to the specific interview that took place - and on the other hand, he tried to paraphrase the serious and responsible positions of a plenipotentiary politician, Evangelos Averov, who we all know has never talked about what the Prime Minister, but he was talking about the 'Macedonian language', as the Titus Constitution considered. By omission of these specific details, however, you realise that there is somewhere else the debate is going. This is a very common tactic, which is repeated even by the co-pilot Mr. Kammenos. Mr Kammenos recently said that there will be no further bookings beyond self-taxation of retrospectives with 20%. He obviously concealed that all the Memorandum bookings that reach 45% will be made. And that's not what I'm saying. It's the C.I.A. you signed and published last Friday. There are also articles - and I can put them in the Minutes too - that out of the EUR 425 million, which would be retrospectively allocated to the commissioners, eventually in their pockets it will lead to only EUR 233 million, which you realise is almost half of what the government claims. We are therefore in the last six months of populism and hypocrisy, for which we have absolutely no doubt. It is a semester that you will not hesitate to present the white one, you will not hesitate to falsify the reality and you will not hesitate to pretend that you are implementing your own policy, whereas you have actually sliding almost all the initiatives of the New Democracy and you are forced to apply one - one - as the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras - all the propositions Mr Mitsotakis has put on the political agenda: the reduction of tax rates in businesses, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, have launched with the third inappropriate memorandum, the reduction of the insurance contributions you have charged to the citizens - your law, the Katragalou Act - the cancellation of the pension cut that you have voted for yourself and even twice with the n.4472, but also the medium-term fiscal strategy programme. Really, are you all so glad you voted out your own law? When you voted for him was someone else in your position? Weren't you the same? I say all this, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because I personally understand the need for the Prime Minister to plunder the political climate and possibly divide Greek society. I understand that, in the absence of a convincing and realistic account, Mr Tsipras has only two outlets of escape: either the distortion or the copying of the positions and general proposals of Mr Mitsotakis. And since all this time, and after many doses of populism, the distortion does not, as it used to be, go through in Greek society, I understand the Prime Minister's attempt to "cut off" the initiatives of the President of the New Democracy. If, however, you want to copy the New Democracy - not to repeat it again, we have proposed for the first time a reduction in tax rates, a reduction in insurance contributions, the government is coming back to implement them, it is doing, on our own field is coming - try to do so in full - on all aspects of our policy, in essence, on our proposal. Above all, do so in these New Democracy positions on our national issues and the Skopje naming. Because, at least, this is how our country will escape the evasion of our national positions, which, unfortunately, the Prespecies Agreement reserves. However, the Prime Minister himself will save the humiliation caused by his friend Mr Zaev, when he talks about "Macedonian language" and "Macedonian ethnicity" and, of course, all of you who will be forced to go ahead voting for an agreement that we all know is contrary to the popular feeling and the overwhelming majority of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, from the 'blank-off' to the 'constitutional' agreement, and vice versa, it is only an election run. So if you think what you are trying to do - especially this period - is something that Greek society and possibly the majority here, in this Chamber, dare! Otherwise, each of us, each of you, each of you, is faced with a reality of a historic position and decision, which, obviously, in the time of the future, will be a burden on the entire Greek foreign policy and issues which, to a very large extent, we know will determine it. I shall close, Mr President, with this thought. The repetitive, supposedly, official presence of the Prime Minister who votes for what he voted in earlier years obviously does not convince anyone. And it does not convince anyone, because they are basically confronted with your own self and not with what you might want to show that the other political parties believe and, above all, the Civic Opposition. After today's debate, after what has been heard today and what is happening especially in the last time the Prime Minister runs just to celebrate, saying: "What I did as a good, I try to overthrow it today", it is only the confirmation of a reality: that the only hope for the Greek society is a government that is serious and responsible, a government that obviously has mentioned the next of the national elections, in which Nea Democracy will actually have the dominant word and Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u295	The Minister for Rural Development has asked for the floor for a short speech. But we have already announced that Mr Katsikis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, will take the floor. I say this in order for there to be a rapid understanding of who will be ahead of us, so that there will be no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, let the Minister take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u297	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I want to make a brief contribution to this very important bill we are debating today, which is a positive draft law. You see that we are fully aware of the conditions in which we have legislated and the conditions in which the country is today. The country is overcoming its old self, overcoming the crisis. That is precisely what is meant by a'memorandum era'. What is happening today is the memorial era. We have been forced, under pressure, and also under the image of the insurance funds, to legislate against negative measures. Today, where there is no need, for precisely because the insurance funds have the image they have, they are surplus cash - the reasons why they were legislated at the time are missing - are now being lifted. The same is true of the excise duty on wine, which, with an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, is being abolished today. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like to remind you of the day on which the excise duty on wine was imposed so that no one can forget it. The Greek people don't forget it. Some people in this Chamber, guided by the communicationists - which communicationsists eventually make political and not political communication - are trying to make the Greek people forget. That day, therefore, you remember that in order for the budget to be closed it needed a sum. The amount we were discussing was between the imposition of a tax on private education or on wine, which, as a greater good, had a small charge of 20 cents per kilo or EUR 20 per hectolitre. It has been preferred - there has been a political choice - at that time not to impose a tax on private education. Because private education, unfortunately, has been the prerogative of the country for years, not only of the rich but also of the populace. So now that the budget is improved, it is what it is, there is no need to have the excise duty on wine and it is now being abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, you should also be aware that public education now takes its role and its role in a state which has public and free education. They're constantly recruiting staff, permanent recruitment. You saw the recruitment program for teachers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u299	Minister, do not extend to the powers of another ministry. You said about the wine, which is your responsibility. Let's end it here. All five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u300	I'm hanging up with this. Public education is being upgraded, and that is where another field of glory is called upon to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u301	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today consists of eighty-five articles. However, the quintousity of this whole piece of legislation is condensed in the first article. It coincides with what we have been under a ruthless bowling for all the previous time. Your Cassandra predictions, gentlemen of counterpopulation, have been celebrated on a solemn basis. It was the political slap you collected. The relief of about one and a half million pensioners haunted you. You weren't expecting it. You bet on their impoverishedness and it didn't come out of you. The architects, but also the authors of the tragic situation in which we have come, are, unfortunately, you. Then you became localists, in order to be sure of its compliance. After taking over the country's rule by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, you became critics, demonstrating a farewell without precedent. The government's attempt to replace the irreversible social policy you have implemented with another fair, human and effective policy has caused you real panic. But you haven't kept it for yourself. You dispersed him into an entire social group. One and a half million people were tortured because of you. But you have another great gift, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy. With this, in the end, you had surrounded that unexplained anxiety of your cutting or not of pensions. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, of the amendment you tabled calling for the abolition of the pension cut. At the same time, the Deputy Press Secretary, Mr. Kyranakis, said publicly that if you ever become a government, you will see the cash reserves and if there is a financial space, so that you do not make cuts. Really, this contradictory, this oxymobile, doesn't it characterize your political speech, full of demagogy and populism? On the other hand, the argument which today dominates is 'you vote and you vote'. Indeed, we need political courage, boldness and boldness - which you do not have, but we have it - so that, after a great fight against the imposition of measures by lenders, we can succeed in having a successful outcome and today being happy to take this measure back on the one hand and on the other, we can change a piece of legislation because it is, if anything, socially abundant. Of course, we have never been to blame for this, but the pressure that was exerted from outside to us. Is it not, then, a proof of courageous and good management of legislation when we manage to vote in this regard? And that's why you're critical of us. I will not go any further, however, in this piece of legislation, because in it quite rightly, targeted, spoke and answered by Panos Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks. I would like to draw your attention, however, to an amendment that I tabled, which concerns the abolition of luxury tax on large-scale laundry cars, because under the provision of Article 21(2) and (5) of the Constitution, a large number of families are entitled to special care for the State. The planning and implementation of a demographic policy, as well as the taking of all necessary measures, is an obligation of the state. The state of subnatality in our country has been virtuous and already 20% of its population is over sixty-five years old. In the context of demographic policy and the promotion of births - Article 2(11) of Law 3583/2007 - was introduced as a demographic incentive and was defined as follows: "Automatically for the transport of persons with a cylinder capacity of up to 2,000 cubic centimeters, including for personal and family use by multiple parents who at the time of receiving at least four minor or protected children, are exempted from the prescribed classification fee. For cars with engine cylinders of more than 2,000 cubic centimeters, the exemption is limited to 50% of the grading fee.’ It is understandable that a multitude of children who have four and more minor children is forced to take an unsubstantiated car if he has four children, seven if he has five children, nine if he has seven children, twelfth if he has eight to ten children or more, since he is not served with a five - year private car. These cars, however, - sixty - seven - twelve - year - olds - usually have a 2,000 - centimeters - roller motor or more. Receiving such cars is by the most urgent and not by luxurious reasons. Under the provisions of Law 4111/2013 Article 44 and Law 4172/2013 Article 31 introduced a luxurious living tax for these cars without exception for luxuries, which, as a matter of urgency, received such cars for the service of the many members of their family, rather than luxury cars. That's how it looks like the multitude families are punished. However, we have a duty to support in every possible and appropriate way the people who contribute to the reduction of fertility in our country, where deaths go far beyond birth. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to this little bit, it is very important. I would like to draw your attention to that, please. On 4 January 2016, I had tabled a timely question to the Minister of Finance, for which he replied, on the basis of competence, on 11 January of the same year, the then Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Alexiadis, recognising the need to amend the specific provisions of Law No 4111/2013 and Law No 4172/2013, considering that their implementation results in a population of special care provided for by the Constitution. Since then, and because no legislative initiative has been taken by the Ministry of Finance - of course Mrs Papanatsiou is currently missing - I think that the time has come for her to restore an unprecedented, flagrant injustice to the detriment of a large-scale family. Essential reasons for justice and demographic policy require exemption from the above tax. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a positive answer to my question. He accepted the right content, as reflected in my question, then Deputy Minister Alexiadis and promised that in 2016, Mr. Ministers, he would have realised this promise. We are close to 2019, I have been exposed to fellow citizens and many fellow citizens of my region, but also to all of Greece, because I had informed of the implementation of this issue with regard to the promise that I have received and that has still not been achieved. I have not heard the Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, approve of my amendment. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that in the event that this amendment is not accepted, after the promises made by the government, it is contemptible and defiance on my face. In addition, I would like the Minister to develop the reasons in the inappropriate case that she will not approve of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor and two parliamentary representatives will be followed by Mr Georgiadis from the Centroon Union and Mr Brutsis from the New Democracy. Then we'll continue with the list. Mr. Sarakiotis, before you start, let me announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-six students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st General High School of Sparta (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the positions of officers of the Officerial Representation and not only from the Step of the House but also from their presence in the media for a very long time, which are referred to in the best words in the results of the PASOK - New Democracy, I wonder if our country at the end of 2014 was Switzerland. It's been four years. What better, then, to look at the headlines at that time, these corresponding days at the beginning of December 2014, of the last months of the coup d'état. And what do I read? Primary of the newspaper "TAS" on 1-12-2014: "up to 12 years longer." "THE NEWS" after a few days: "The Memorandum comes back", on 4 December. The same newspaper on December 6: "From success story to horror film". The printer's demon apparently hit the "News", so I'm continuing in other approved newspapers. I am going to the "NAYTTERIC" on 4-12-2014: "Extension of the memorandum leads to delays". It has also been done by NAYTERTRARIAN, so I say, let's refer to 'KATHMERINA'. On 12-12-2014, the last days of PASOK and New Democracy, Greece Switzerland writes in its front page: "New Crescent on the Stock Exchange. More than 10% of the yield of the three-year bond." Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are not forgetting. The Greek people have lived up to your policies and we will be here to remind you of them all the time. Let's come to today. What was the permanent incubation for a year and a half of the Vice-Population officials? ‘What will you do 1-1-2019 when the pensions of our fellow citizens are considerably reduced? What are you going to tell them?" And give him the charts and give him the paintings, 200 euros each loses, 300 euros the other, 400 euros the other. Now I wonder: What are you going to say to retired people who are now being terrified with the help of journalists a year and a half? I understand that especially in the last few years, the three - and a half past months have become a nightmare for you. Starting on 23 August, the principle of more favourable regulation came into force in the collective agreements, a law which had been suspended since 2012. We're on. On 8 November the amendment to the retroactive payment to beneficiaries of special wages is adopted. Financial sums, which were cut by you, are only returned to our fellow citizens. On 23 November the bill for reducing insurance contributions to self-employed, farmers, free traders, with the result that people who already under the Katrugalou law paid lower insurance contributions, paid significantly lower amounts than the new year. On 28 November, the reduction of the flag tax for New Democracy and PASOK, HISPIA, is hereby adopted. And we're coming today on December 11th, your worst nightmare to happen. The measure of the pension cut is abolished. So we will continue to look into the eyes of our pensioners and other fellow citizens. To see how you will continue to talk to them, to see them without having accountable after four years for the disastrous effects of your policies. How you will look into the eyes of all those to whom social dividends are currently distributed and you are arguing against distribution and against receiving these sums. How will you look at the low wages, who will see in the next few years an increase in their wages after the abolition of your invention, the subordinate and the increase in the minimum wage? How will you contact the hostage firefighters, the hostage workers in cleanliness? Perhaps the most characteristic example of all is the "Help at Home", which today comes to be liberated from a hostage of decades that you willingly held them, people who work in difficult mountain villages, in remote islands. Here comes the day and time to be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, preventing pension cuts on 1 January was not a God-supported success. It emerged through a coordinated government policy, which was based on the positive effects of the Greek economy. Sadly, however, for months this effort has been unsuccessfully undermined by domestic memorial worshipers. We all remember - and the Greek Prime Minister also mentioned it - the attack of both Vice-Presidents of the New Democracy when Mr Moskoviss daring for the first time to leave a window open for their non-cutting. We all remember your Vice-President's position that the pension cut is a structural measure and must be taken. I am pleased, however, that you will once again be inconsistent and despite the fact that you believe that the cut is a structural measure, you will vote with us. But if you accept the current government's initiative, ask for an apology. I'm sorry to the Greek retired people you've been terrorizing a year and a half and a half and a half in agony to build your account. Keep, if anything, from now on low tone. Stop being exposed, as has always been the case in the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u305	The parliamentary representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. He's a very big dormant in this Chamber today. I shall start with pensions and comment as a parliamentary representative, where I can, everything that has been done in this Chamber. As the Central Association we are clear that we are in favour of the middle-class, in favour of the weak, we do not want in any case to cut pensions, particularly low, and certainly this bill is in the right direction and you will find us close to some of the provisions of this. Still, let's not go crazy. An article, which you have voted on, you now come to dig it out and move us and the finger that we need to applaud for you, because here you accuse the previous ones, but we are talking about having a pension cut contest in recent years - and I will table a sign - since 2010, where thirty-eight pension cuts under PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA - ANEL are listed, twenty-four the number of previous governments, fourteen, mainly because of the Katrugalo Law. I come to the Minutes, so that I don't spend some of my time reading details. It is at the disposal of all colleagues to see exactly historically what you have all done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now we have also seen a competition from Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis make news and Scandalology. We started with the scandals of previous years, 'NOVARTIS', C4I, 'SIEMENS', armaments, and now we came to the scandals of your own governance, DEDPA, an airport that we know what money it was made and how much it was finally given, since there was a finger from abroad, bullets from Saudi Arabia, the challenging market for the cellar, 'EDS', in Skopje in the midst of negotiations for the name of the state, and you suddenly show us that you are the new one that you haven't even sat down on the chairs and listed so many scandals. But the only thing for sure is that you don't care about the Greek people, and that seems to be how you handle the Prespecies Agreement, because if you were really interested in the Greek people, you would hear that 80% of it doesn't want it. We come to leave the Greek people and enter this Chamber and see how many parties inside the Greek Parliament want this agreement. Not only does the opposition not want it, it does not want your government partner either. Go minority on your own, because only you believe this agreement is beneficial, to sign in Prespes and then begin the proceedings on their part Skopje, to change their constitution, to provoke with statements that your Government has certainly strongened, and provocatively the former Minister of Foreign Affairs will come out and say that "he would pull Zafef's ears in every way," if he still was a Foreign Minister, who we all know so far cared about! All I have to say is that it certainly has an economic impact on all this economic result that we are discussing today. And because we talked about promises, which you have kept and you start and you do, I would like to remind you of the promises you have not made, and I do not know whether they will be implemented and never, because the previous governments, who want to come after, have not done so three years ago and say that they will now reduce taxes. New Democracy says they'll reduce taxes when they come. Three years ago why didn't they reduce them? Why didn't the investments come back then and they will come now, when they will take over the country's governance, if and when they take it? You were entitled to a third pension, and we are barely here today, one month - and not a month, twenty days - before the application of the article you voted on, to vote in order not to cut the pension. No, you just didn't give a third pension, but you've cut the pensions according to the table I've deposited. For the minimum wage, which you said at EUR 751: Here we were, Minister, which you have now referred to and said about abolishing the minimum wage. The EUR 751 we have not reached and I do not know if we will be able to achieve it. Let us finally be realistic in this Chamber. For the EUR 12 000 tax: In fact, from 1-1-2020 this tax will fall on the basis of what you have still voted on under EUR 6 000. You said you were going to rip a memorandum with a law and an article, and at the moment you are the longest-lived Memorandum Government in recent years, and you are asking us to judge you for the hundred days you have - supposedly - out of our country from the Memorandum. Our country may have left the Memorandum by name. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. But we know what follows over the next few years with surpluses quite high until 2060 and with a mortgage on our public property for ninety years. No, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we will not judge you for the hundred days for which you want to be judged. We will judge you for the three and a half years that you are ruling and you have reached this point in the country's economy, where your success is to be a champion in taxation. I present the OECD report, where 39.4% of GDP is taxes and you also have government officials, who, unfortunately, because you say about the new one, expose you every day and confuse business tax with VAT! I'm tabling the relevant report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As I said before, we will support several articles in this bill and in the first place, but do not move our fingers and tell us not to forgive everything, because you suddenly decided to vote against something that you yourself have voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u307	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's sitting to discuss the draft law, which is currently being proposed by the Ministry of Labour, and at the very short time that I have, I would like to convey to the National Representation, but above all to the Greek people, workers and pensioners, reality and truth. Because the New Democracy never took responsibility if they didn't exist. It is the party of responsibility and especially responsible political management. Mrs. Ahchioglu, gentlemen of SYRIZA, we don't blame you for reducing pensions. If that were necessary politically and budgetaryly, we would say that, of course, we should agree on a national line. We blame you and denounce you because the reductions you made - and they are a total of seventeen - were not necessary, they were inappropriate. And I'm explaining: The political and fiscal history of the place is recorded. I received the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour in May 2012. I inherited a specific budget environment in the insurance sector and honoured what I received. I did not get out of here on the Step to denounce the past, knowing weaknesses, as the politician has to do. I inherited a specific situation, and what I had to do as Minister was to improve what I took and inherited. Indeed, through the adjustments - the necessities - that had to be done, we reached the end of 2014 - that pensioners and workers listened to it - in an equilibrium environment that met the sustainability conditions of our country by 2060. Did Brutsis say so, did the New Democracy say so? It's called, yes, but not just us. For the first time, the only proportionate study that came out in Greece - Kyriakos Mitsotakis has submitted it here many times - has shown that our insurance system with the signature of the EG Working Group was viable by the 1960s. And what happened from there? Why are you screwing up? For quite simply, what Mr Tsipras, Mr Petropoulou, said, the utopias and delusions that you had, the call for power, the ideals that you have been proclaimed, not personally but Mr Tsipras and the entire government, have broken down the fiscal model of the country and you have gone to an irresponsible retreat of total endurance. It was not just national issues, it was finance. Twenty-seven tax increases, seventeen pension reductions and contributions increases. And what do we have today? Four years later, you come and take the worst law, the Katorugalou law, which was inappropriate. The reductions were inappropriate and we have a result which has the following characteristics: Firstly, all the new pensioners in the country since May 1916 will have 35% reduction in basic pensions, compared with '14. One of that. At the same time, their subsidiary 45% decreased compared with '14. Second one. The lifting of this measure was something that you voted for yourself, 4472/2017, the law of Mrs Ahtsoglou. The new Republic and the rapporteur then said Mr Stakoura in the roll-call vote 'no' and we all said 'no'. You voted for it with your two hands, today you vote for it, welcome. It was not necessary, we repeat. The Katorugalo Law and its content, its basic and fundamental affronts, which were the single contribution, what happened? They're tired. You made a reduction in contributions, which we said was a proclaimed position of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is tired of saying so, and all of our MPs are saying that you reduced the contributions of the free professionals, after four years with a horrific pressure, and Mr Tsipras has today made sure that it is the tie movement. Second, what else are we telling you? That this law does not go any further, because the contributions of non-wage costs must also be reduced. You denounced Kyriakos Mitsotakis when he said that the insurance would collapse and today you are bringing down the non-wage cost of 6.66% for young people under the age of twenty-five years. Of course it's welcome, but it's not enough. But now, why doesn't he sink and wreck the insurance company? What else is left? The competitivity of the system. It is the worst form and there is the structure and vertebral column of the Katrugalo Law, as the single one was dissolved, as the main fundamental pillars of the Katrugalo Law were dissolved, which we will change the next day. Three specific truths, which violate logic, reality and I want them restored. You're telling the Prime Minister wrongly and he's saying inaccurate things. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, there has never been a surplus budget in the country's insurance system. One is that. Second one. It was never sustainable and nor is it sustainable the insurance. It can't be either. You put words into the Prime Minister's mouth - which he does not know rightly - which alter reality. Someone's listening to the sustainability of insurance. Thirdly, you are doing something too bad, I would say, not just petty but politically dangerous. Knowing that in 2019 you will not be a government, you will drugize the budget of EVA in the worst way. He's stigmatizing in the air. I have in my hands, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the EPC, to justify what I said before, namely that there are no surpluses, just deficits and that you have drugged in 2019. I come to the first, which concerns the sustainability of insurance. As long as the state budget finances the insurance, there can be no surpluses and the country's commitment is 16% committed by the Papandreou government in 2010. You've been inherited, you've adopted. That's the bar. Well, this shows that, as long as we are under 16% and fulfil sustainability conditions, the insurance is currently fulfilling the new cuts, but the unfairness of the Katrugalo Law, and it is coming to confirm that insurance is not sustainable, but it fulfils the sustainability conditions. Why? Example. The budget you submitted to the House. It says that in 2019 we will have 24.9-25 billion payments for the main pensions. Contributions are only EUR 9.5 billion. The rest of what is it? State budget. Is there a surplus? For 2019 your own budget. Secondly, I keep the budget that I showed you before and I go to two years in dispute, in 2017 and in 2018. ECA budget. So what does the budget say? It says that code 6000, Minister, has extraordinary revenues of 2.8 billion in 2018 and 2.8 billion in 2017. What does that mean? The pension cuts were 1.8, which are lifted for 2019 - so you are properly deducting them - and you have extraordinary revenues of 1 billion euros. And be careful, you say surplus in 2018: 581 euros. To remove 1 billion, the exceptional grant from the budget, Mr. Petropole. EUR 751 million in 2017. To remove the 1 billion that you put into the budget of the EBRD. What's wrong with him? A deficit again. You're making fun of the Greek people. I'm going to 2019, because you drugged it. Because in the most undermining way that is not appropriate for a government to do it for the next one to come, you locked the AAGE's reserves, you said that we will not get any more money from the AAGE, the 390 million, because you will not be a government, you show a surplus of 245 million and you will also remove the 1 billion, the state grant. The 2019 budget shall be in the air. With mathematical certainty what you have submitted to a project as an EVKA will be reviewed for your day and even at the beginning of 2019 very soon. In the two years of 2017 and 2018 you have also done something very bad. You got 800 million euros from the grant to pay the outstanding pensions. You put it as an emergency income, and you did it to the debt. The Greek people owe 800 million to the debt, you took 800 million, you turned the image of the 2017 and 2018 budget and the pensions are unpaid. That's the picture. I wanted to say a few words on the substance that you continue with what you have learned from the beginning, mock and lie. He's in the air, you've drugged him for 2019 and you'll be sure that we'll put him back on his normal paths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Pratsol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have followed both the Head of New Democracy and all the Members, as well as Mr Brutsis has already said, who has fallen into a contradiction. On some impulse of his speech he said: "I received it... so anyway it wasn't sustainable and we'll bring it back to where it was". I think he's saying everything! Apart from that, there is something else about pension reductions. I really think that they give rise to public opinion, and I say this, because too many people stop us on the road and tell us 'Where do the main pension cuts that the opposition says you did seventeen times?' What we know is that pensions on the governments of New Democracy and PASOK decreased by 45 billion and thirteen times. That's undeniable. The strange thing about history is that when the abolition of pension cuts was announced, it was said by Members, both of the Democratic Alliance and of the New Democracy, that we are following their own policy. If we were to pursue their own policy, then we must keep in mind that the workers who are retired really would have no pensions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are following our own policy, and it is our policy that is now abolishing an unnecessary measure which we have had to take because of the pressure from the Monetary Fund to close the second assessment. All the time you had supported your entire opposition and you really had thrown all your money into pension cuts, and now at the end at the end, because something you saw was going to change, you started talking about suspending the cut. Until fifteen days ago these were statements from both the New Democracy area and the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece at the new Carpenisi gathering, which took place 15 days ago. It has been said that there is another deception of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the Greek people, and that is that the measure is not abolished but will be suspended. In fact, tons of ink have been spilled, both from you and from the instruments that "pay you" with their support on this issue, that the pension cut is applicable and will be done. You set up your programme on the basis of this, and of course that was the stake you had. Today all of your efforts to avoid talking about the tampering at all, it seemed to me that when we heard Mr Mitsotakis, who has devoted a very small part of his speech to the issue of the House today, it was not a pension cut. The rest was on other issues. That is precisely what is embarrassing, that we are talking about others and not about it. I would like to focus on two other issues that solve today's bill and relate to two amendments. One is for the 'Help at Home' programme. It is an issue that I have heard many here talk about and say 'ha, we have said so too'. If I remember correctly, this measure had been implemented about fifteen years ago. In these fifteen years, the workers of the "Help at Home" programme had a political hostage, a programme which is emblematic, which has helped greatly and is a key pillar of the social state, which helps the helpless, especially in the region. There, therefore, no government since 2006 has made any sense to these workers, and today this government is tabling an amendment which, through ASPs, will become simulations and increased mobilisation. For all workers it is 7% to cover and any other problems exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Another amendment also solves the issue of reduced contributions by 50% to young workers under the age of twenty-five years. And here, really, you should make your self-criticism obvious. You have implemented the measure of shame, which was the minimum wage for workers under the age of twenty-five, and we come and tell the workers of twenty-five years because they really have a life ahead of them that we need to reduce their contribution. This is also an incentive for companies to hire and reduce unemployment. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is an issue that should concern you. This bill comes to seal the success of this government, to bring Greece back to growth and to budget expansion after eight years of cruel austerity, always aiming to progress in areas that will help to strengthen social justice, democracy and transparency. Here we are and will show in the budget the positive measures taken by this government. Each time it will be an unpleasant surprise for you, but a pleasant surprise for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u311	We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Helios for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u312	A little more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u313	No, Mr. Heliopoulou, you're not an expedited Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u314	I'm from the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u315	Yes, you're in the Ministry of Labour, but you're not one of the ministers who filed the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u316	I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u317	Give a little more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u318	Six minutes has the Deputy Minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u319	There'll be tolerance. I'll take three minutes, because time is limited, Minister. If you're talking to all four ministers, you need an hour. Today's session of violence, based on the programming of the Bureau, expires at 22.00 p.m. The list of speakers is still long, there are secondary and, of course, interventions by ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u320	The State Secretary's time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u321	Who told you it was six minutes? Where'd you get that conclusion from, Mr. Manda?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u322	Where did you get it from, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u323	From the paper you shared, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u324	Assisting Ministers. Who are the prime ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u325	Let's go, let's go, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u326	We've already lost three minutes. Here, Mr. Heliopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us start from an important political point of view. The fact that today in the debate on a central measure, a central initiative on the issue of pensions, the Chief of Police Vice-Population chose not to refer to the issue of pensions, has chosen to speak about the Macedonian, is a defeat assumption. It is a defeat assumption, because when New Democracy came out to say its proposal a little while ago, the famous Pinochet insurance insurance and responded with information from the Ministry of Labour about the cost of the New Democracy's proposal to public social security, about how it damages more than 50 billion people in public insurance, since then this proposal has been lost somewhere. The fact that Mr Mitsotakis was hiding today about the insurance system, about social security and only spoke sovereignly about the issue of Macedonia shows this political defeat. The second, however, which is more important and more dangerous, is that with his attitude today, the Chief of New Democracy has chosen to legitimise the Golden Dawn in the most official way. When he chooses to interchange with the slogan “Speak Macedonia”, he chooses to deal with fascists and neonazis. When he chooses to enter the debate "You have spoken Macedonia, to get pensions", he chooses a very slippery path for democracy itself. But here too, a problem arises for the New Democracy itself. Why do you really think there was a conciliation, because you often say things that you too do not believe in, in the European elections to which you will be a group? Will you be in the Eurogroup of the European People's Party? Will you be in the Eurogroup of those who made a conciliation with the Greek Government to sell Macedonia, as you think, or are you going with Lepen? Say it open. Say that we will now go to the European Parliament with Lepen, because this is our political direction, to complete the ideological victory of Mr Vorides in New Democracy, and that will be a small sign of validity, for what you are saying. Part two. A few days ago Mr. Mitsotakis met with the Association of Private Insurance Companies, the same days that an undeclared worker in Thessaloniki had been beaten up by his employer and made the statement that young workers choose undeclared work. This statement, which is terrifying in itself, is twice as scary as it is, and I say again, a young worker has been beaten by his employer and was even undeclared. And since you are constantly talking about reform, what was the basic reform that you have done in the Labour Inspectorate? The main reform was to leave an audit mechanism with nine fewer organic positions and to abolish the legal support section and the information system section. I do not think there is any other control mechanism in Europe, which can operate without legal support and without an information system section. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Because you are constantly talking about infraction, there is infraction and infraction. Remember, when Kyriakos Mitsotakis was found in the Association of Greek Banks, that he didn't find a half a word to say about the fact that the Greek banks are champions of infraction and supposed work? He didn't find half a word about the fact that in a bank we found more than two hundred employees working in undeclared overtime with a fine of 1.6 million. He found half a word about the fact that cases have been recorded, that banks are prosecuting workers from the risk stairs or from adjacent buildings to avoid control. We shall now proceed to the question of pension cuts. We have been listening since this morning, 'you have negotiated, you have voted for them yourself, you have voted for them yourself'. Why do you have such a stress to acquit the International Monetary Fund? Why would you forget that there was the International Monetary Fund? Why should you forget that you have advisors at the moment in your party, Mrs Xiafa, a man of the International Monetary Fund, who continues to defend the pension cut? Why would you forget that at the time when the negotiation took place, you said that the program did not come out and the cutter would come, so what? So they need some measures. Because when this government fought, some were on the side of the International Monetary Fund. And the government won this battle for both pensions and collective agreements, when you called us the idea of the second assessment of collective agreements, when you said so much and so much. I'll say one last sentence. Just now we heard the New Democracy spokesman say that EVCA is not coming out and that you will see that the 2019 budget is in the air. We've lived three years of destructiveness and you've constantly fallen out of it. You keep insisting. Why do you keep insisting? Because your programme is a memorandum, a memorandum for work, a memorandum for a social majority, and you need a disaster to legitimize it. You think this disaster will come. Unfortunately, you're going to fall out one more time. And you're going to fall out again, because it's not just the damage to the work you're invoking. At the moment, unfortunately, there is a very big issue in the country, how you legalise the far-right agenda. There is, for our part, a front to defend labour against the logic of social cannibalism. And if you think this logic is marginal, let me close with the statement made by one of your own and today's central executives in the Manola case: "The caretakers were in defense, because the immigrants were running over them with bats. They shot in the air and the scouts, as they fell, hit some immigrants." Because you don't have a problem with violence in general. You are not generally condemning violence. You are fine with the violence that is being practiced against the weak. You have a problem with social reactions, with the democratic claim to change the world for a better and fairer world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Chironis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. I am rather sad that I will have to start with a subject where there is systematic self-determination of people who want to insist on the irrationality and humiliation of our Greek language. I shall therefore begin with the definition of nationality in the 1997 European Union Regulation. So he writes it in English, and I will say it in English: “”Nationality” means the collective bonus between a person and a state and does not indicate the person's ethnic origin. “Multiple nationality” means the simultaneous position of two or more nationalities by the same person.” To translate, then, into Greek: "Nationality or citizenship means a legal bond between a person and a state and does not mean the ethnic origin of the person. And double triple citizenship means that the same person has more than one citizenship. It has absolutely nothing to do with this legal definition in our passports and passports and the identities of all people with ethnicity, who continue here unwise to say, insisting on the President of the New Democracy. And we know why he's doing it. Because there's a Valley Ethnicity, there's a Flemish Ethnic, but citizenship is Belgian. There's a Scottish nation, but citizenship is British. So on the basis of citizenship, since 1991 - and this is what your President wants to hide - by Regulation 3567, which you signed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Samaras, we have commercial relations and passports for these people who are talking about today, write 'Macedonna'. We have heard the other pitfall that sads me and sads me. Mr. Averoff says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u330	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u331	...he wasn't talking about the Macedonian language spoken here, he was talking about the Macedonian language in Titus. That's another one. And another is, of course, the Macedonian language, which Penelope Delta mentions. Another is the Macedonian language, of course, mentioned in the OSCE document, which is the report on the elections in FYROM in 2004, which was no longer Tito. The OSCE expressly states that this document is released in English and in the ‘macedonian language’, the ‘Macedonian language’. I posted it on my blog. I now come to the Minutes and the definition of the contract signed by Greece, not to mention nonsense. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is a pity, therefore, because today we are talking about language and ethnicity is clearly in the neighbouring country. What we are interested in right now and what the Prespecies Agreement finally says is no recognition, because neither the Indian language nor the Turkish nor the British have we ever recognised. What we are pointing out is that this language is not the language of Alexander the Great. While without the deal, our neighbours said so on Gruevski. So that is what we are clear today and we do not recognise any languages or ethnicities. We are now going to what has been said. I will only deal with one thing, which many people have said, and it is easy to hear from the benches. Why haven't we heard the previous pension reductions? Why do we continue with memorial? Why all we do is keep the personal difference? Why not give every man a 1,000 euro pension, not give what he is entitled to? Because he really deserves it. And the answer is very simple. Because since 1951, all the funds reserves have been closed down by the then governments and have fed the client state. And here I will testify in the Minutes, with the indicative interest rates of the time, the official interest rates of the Bank of Greece, what would be worth 100,000 euros, of what we stole from the coconut in 1950. So it would be worth this EUR 100,000 in 2008, which I have finished my study, EUR 38,893,000. And if we do this every year, these 100,000 euros would be worth 2.24,000 euros. And if we do not steal EUR 100,000 - which, as you can see, was not EUR 100,000, the fund reserves in 1950, but that was a lot of euros - and we calculate a hypothetical figure of EUR 16 million, they would be worth EUR 367,154,305 000 today. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So this money is missing from the fund money and the only fair way to make up for who it is? Shall we increase the replacement? But in order to increase the replacement, the contributions should be increased. You must certainly give a fair pension to either greatly increase contributions or, of course, build an insurance policy for the future. After the pigeon's been stolen, how will the money be found? So tell us the people who say that, like the respectable JRC, where we'll find the money. We all know that. The JRC itself estimated that in 1975 - and has tabled a proposal for a law - they had already stolen EUR 57 billion. The calculation is of the JRC, with a proposal for a law that it had tabled. I'm asking, then, very simple. It's the only fair way, and it's the one we did. We are creating a national pension, which is out of replacement, which we are giving to all people who are entitled to a pension. It is not the pension fund's burden but it is the budget's burden, so that there is a return gradually and slowly to the sums stolen. And if our economy goes well, because with us it goes better, this national pension will grow and this insurance will be fairer and more and more. But to give birth to the money you've been stealing since 1951, it's not going to be in any magical way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u332	Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will use the phrase that the Prime Minister said: 'This is a happy day'. Indeed, he did not have time to finish this sentence and the Minister for Rural Development, Stavros Arachovitis, came and said that he was abolishing the excise duty on wine. So right away, the good news comes. And so we are pleased to vote now for bills, such as today, which bring satisfaction and relief to Greek women and Greek citizens. So today we see the labors of the Greeks and Greeks and the uninterrupted efforts of the government to bear fruit. So it is always sowing to harvest, we trim our trees to bloom and collect the fruit. That's how it happened this time. Because we legislate not to cut pensions, a target set by the government, despite the fact that many have questioned it, and also the possibility of achieving it. In fact, I would like to refer to the President of Officerial Representation, who has been able and made clear that this is a transaction product, that we have given Skopje to get no pension reduction. But is the president of the L.A.P. serious? I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, not to vote for it. If it is a transaction product as you consider it, and that democracy, as the Golden Dawn says, sold Macedonia, then don't vote for it. You're gonna be accomplices? Either vote for it, because you will admit that it is law right or do not vote for it. There are no double standards. Decide until the end of the vote. So we have a budgetary margin that we can clear - you want to clear it - bills which affect the people. We voted with the knife in the neck. We had the International Monetary Fund. We now have the budgetary margin to clear it up. And we're glad we're clearing them up. And we're going to vote for more, more, which were a burden on the Greek people, no matter whether they're ruining your schedule, we're ruining the plans you've made. You've made the cut-off flag. You go to your channels - not to say which channels, we are not even going - and you have made prices for how much the pension will be cut, whether you will cut 500 euros or 1,000 euros. You've done your calculations too. So now we have surpluses and we can make the programmes that we have set as objectives, because we have the financial margin. Thus we will not have a reduction in pensions from 1 January 2019. Then we have a route from 2015 to today. Over the last three years this government has been able to do what coexistences and governments over the last 40 years have failed. So I hope that, at least, our children and grandchildren will not live what we have been through since 2009 and you have implemented the memorandum. So the Prime Minister does exactly what he promised and announced in the International Report. I do not want to mention now to your Vice-President, who had broken his plans when Pierre Moscovici said that pensions would probably not be cut off. To some extent, I justify the New Democracy because they have suffered what psychologists say panic. You have a panic, because retired people now see their incomes as no longer being curtailed. They can now count on what they received, not that you had cut them from 30% to 50% in 2012. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. SYRIZA did what he had purposed to get out of the memorials. He did it. So now we're getting to have an insurance system that has a surplus. In 2014, when they received it, it was bankrupt and damaged, and now it has a surplus. At least the insurance funds can have the pensions secured and one and a half million people will not be subject to the pension cut. Definitely the battle has been won. So we will improve the lives of our fellow citizens and the government will go ahead on the basis of its objectives. It will end its term of office and its new term of office that the people will once again give their vote to continue it, in the next September 2019 elections, will continue and arrive where SYRIZA intends to reach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u334	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Tsironis began his speech with a reference to the Greek language and gave us lessons about language, nationality, etc., at the same time as he referred to "Master Averov". Averov, dear former Minister, is immeasurable, so certainly not "sir". As long as we were fighting here about whether Tsipras who interpreted the nationality or Mitsotakis's interpretation of what he said about Macedonia, at the same time Mr Zaev made this statement: "I am Macedonian...", Mr Tsironi, "I speak Macedonian language" and no one can question that." So the answer to the Tsipras - Mitsotakis dispute does not give the dictionary, Mr. Tsironi, but your partner in the agreement that made you ridiculous, while Tsipras was playing it great here and said he sent strict messages, in a way that he doesn't make it public, because he does it secretly. So if, in fact, Mr. Tsipras has sent out strict messages, he certainly hasn't received them is Mr. Zaev. I'm saying this to understand the size of the error you're in. Of course, New Democracy has never spoken of treason either Mitsotakis or any of us. We never talked about treason. We didn't say that you're the ones who think you're hurting Greece. You have retreated from your real position. The real SYRIZA conference was never "North Macedonia". SYRIZA's position, ladies and gentlemen, was "Macedonia". "Macedonia" you told them to SYRIZA. "Macedonia" told them by Janakopoulos who went with SYRIZA youth. "Macedonia" told them by Tsakalotus who signed the declaration to be called "Macedonia". "Macedonia" said Katrugalos and the others. So you, indeed, have left your initial position. You called them "Macedonia" and you are now pressing 'North Macedonia'. So you who had this position obviously do not consider betrayal to make this agreement, because that is what you like! But don't make fun of us. Mrs Merkel asked for this topic from Costas Karamanlis and said no to her. And we all remember how much cold there was in Karamanlis - Merkel after the veto in Bucharest. He asked George Papandreou and said no. He asked Antonis Samaras and said no. Don't tell me now that it didn't pass through Mrs Merkel's mind that if she didn't give the pensions to Tsipras, Tsipras would have to make an early election, and since Mitsotakis said no, he would lose the only chance after fifteen years to make this deal. So it is quite obvious that you have received the pensions for the Ambassadors' Agreement! There was an exchange and a political transaction, with the difference that you didn't do it as traitors. You did it because you had a wrong position from the start. That's our difference. And you will also be judged by the Greek people and by the history of this. But you will allow me to make two more comments from the debate this morning, so that I can then come to the pensions on the substance. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to condemn the inappropriate attack by the Prime Minister on your former colleague Mr Tatsopoulos from the Step. I have not heard the Prime Minister speak in such a vulgar way, a pavement in Parliament. When Tatsopoulos had made the relative misguided statement about half Athens, he was your MP. You were colleagues. And any channel journalist dared to talk about this statement, you went out - and you were right - and you said "these are gossip and we shouldn't put them in the political dialogue". And what you were saying, when Tatsopoulos was in your parliamentary group, came and told Tsipras here in the House. It wasn't a waste of Tatsopoulos when he was a member of Tsipras. It's a waste, now that he's taken over Tsipras, and he's cursed him. But this is Tsipras, small and insignificant, and such a person shows. It's a Paulakis without beards. Now let's go to the Petsite. Mr Tsipras spoke today in the House about seventy minutes in total. It was provoked on Mr Petsiti's point too many times. Did you hear him mention the name 'Petzitis' once again? Well, the Prime Minister has not heard that a friend of his, on Facebook, who had pictures of his office at the Maximos Mansion, of the 5,000 euro income has gone to 200,000 euros and has taken money from Laurentis Laurentiades, for which justice has committed a felony for your CEO? Wasn't Mr. Tsipras supposed to say anything about this? And I was surprised that Mr. Pappas said he was his classmate. And I read a very nice online, ladies and gentlemen. "Profession: classmate Nikos Papa". That's a good profession! You did raise the basic salary, Minister. You raised him not to all Greeks, to Mr Petsiti, but increased him from EUR 5,000 per year to EUR 200,000 per year. And, of course, Mr. Tsipras didn't say anything, because it's obvious that he's got his nest too dirty. It's the only logical explanation that, in seventy minutes, he hasn't said a word about Petsite. This is really very interesting. And I'm closing. Mr. Tsipras and me personally accused of cultivating. However, the case of pensions and the way in which this debate takes place, Minister - I would like a little attention - shows who is cultivating the division in Greece. You voted for a law that we did not vote on cutting the personal difference, not on pensions. The pensions have been cut, so don't let us fall into the same trap. The pensions have been cut by both Minister Katrugalos and Minister Ahchioglou. Now what we are talking about is cancelling the cut in the personal dispute. Note, however, the opposition did not vote for your law and in the summer it brought an amendment for you to cancel, and Mitsotakis in the European People's Party said that this law should not apply and Brutsis was yelling everywhere so that the law does not apply, and indeed the Earus you found him, would take out the cards you were saying. All of us who were yelling where we could not do so, did this not help your Government in negotiating to cancel the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u337	I'll be right back. So if we all said the backwards, wouldn't it be much harder for Tsipra to take this measure today? Instead of coming to Parliament, Tsipras, who is in favour of unity, because I am in favour of splitting and Mitsotakis, and saying: "All the political system together gave the battle, so that the cuts in personal dispute do not apply," he came again with "Or we or they".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u338	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u339	For at the same time as Tsipras speaks of culture of national division, he invests in the national division, with the difference that this national division will not save him, as many pirates as I have heard today, where Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kontonis, said that you represent PASOK in 1980, Mr. Kurublis stood up to speak in favour of Andreas Papandreou and how much he loves him, and he respects him and has respected him and defended him. And listen - listen, he rose up in the Step of the House and spoke in favour of Andreas Papandreou and the social PASOK of 1980, Panagiotis Kammenos, who had published a book in the 1980s, accusing Andreas Papandreou of being the leader of “17 November”! The man who in his book said that Andreas Papandreou is the leader of “17 November” that he is a murderer, a terrorist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u341	...he came here and told us how much he loved and respected Andreas Papandreou and Tsipras, who loves and respects Andreas Papandreou, sits in the government, with the man who called Andreas Papandreou a terrorist. Only you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, can do this! Just you! You have taught new measures in politics. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u342	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u343	I ask for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u344	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u345	Can I say a phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u346	No, no phrases. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u347	I'll just say one sentence. I have the right, I don't ask for it as a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u348	Where do you have that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u349	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u350	Please. Mr. Rabbit, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, in the Greek Parliament every day we have great times. Normally, everything that's going on should go for an inspection in Delfinario at such a level. We have seen the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, also rightly say -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Rabbit, I'm sorry. I would ask you very much to be quiet, and you will not be able to do so with the Bureau. There is a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA who may intervene or ask for explanations to be posted on any matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u353	Members may request the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I asked you to speak on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u355	Please. Please. Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u356	I'm going on, Mr. President. There is no reason to fight with the MPs of SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Together they had voted, and the third memorandum, together, will vote for other things if they are. And Macedonia's name together wanted to give it until some time ago, until the New Democracy saw that the first rally had a terrible resonance on the Greek people and reacted and was differentiated there. I was saying before that it has really very much fun and it is very great that we see the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Adoni Georgiadis, saying - and rightly say at this particular point - how much fun people who have been squeezing PASOK for decades, now glorifying the then PASOK leader Papandreou, saying that it was a very good fight he did, saying that many old PASOK ministers and PASOK executives now in SYRIZA have gone into the swimming pool and are all clear. And three minutes ago, Adonis Georgiadis defended Tatsopoulos. We are talking about laughing at cement in the Greek Parliament! The man with whom he was killed, the man with whom he was unbuilt in a telepath, interviews, anything, defended him, because he is now in New Democracy. So after he's come to the same "magaz" now, we'll defend him from doing our job, mock the victims out of Greek citizens a little more, and do our own thing. As well as the Vice-President of the New Democracy forgets what he said until 2010-2011, when he was in another parliamentary party and devoured the New Democracy. It's over, it's gone, it's out, it's not happening now. Now we are another, we are a beautiful New Democracy, fighting for things that we believe in! And because I saw New Democracy now wrestling for the Macedonian and we heard her Leader a little while ago talking about the slogan that is said in the squares by the young children and which has a great deal of truth, that "democracy is selling our Macedonia", that is where we have to say some things that have not been heard in the Greek Parliament, because some people do not want to be heard. SYRIZA represents his ideological position. That's it. He wants to name Macedonia. Its views are on national issues. Besides, the Prime Minister with his occupations then when he was young and the various SYRIZA officials say that the Aegean belongs to its fish, Macedonia belongs to its bears and something like this crazy and mad. That's what they want and that's what they're doing. We are going to New Democracy now, which supports our Macedonia and does not want to sell it. Does anyone really know about an extraordinary ministerial meeting on European policy on 16 December 1991 in Brussels? I am telling you exactly what had been decided, not to say other things: 'The European Community and the Member States - also require that, from the Yugoslav republic in question, commit themselves before its recognition to establishing constitutional and political guarantees ensuring that there is no territorial claims in a neighbouring State of the Community and that it does not carry out hostile propaganda activities against neighbouring states, including the use of a name involving territorial claims'. This is done on 16 December 1991. A month later, on 22 January 1992, in Gimaraes in Portugal, a decision is taken second time by the European Union and the European Council, which reiterates the position taken by the Community and the Member States in Gimaraes at the request of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 'The European Council is prepared to recognise the State with its existing borders' - in Skopje we are talking about 'in accordance with the declaration of 16 December 1991, but by no means including the term 'Macedonia'. That is what has been done in 1991 and 1992. Then we'll go to New Democracy. On 7 April 1993, while there are these decisions, which give all the right to Greece not to recognise Skopje under the name "Macedonian", we see the Macedonians of the New Democracy and then its Chief, Mitsotakis, saying that at that time he and Kiro Gligorov recognizes this name as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. These, if you want, are tabled to the Minutes, because the Greek people don't know them, because they shouldn't be learned. I'll get them some other time. That's the reality. So it was also recognised from there that the "Macedonian" started the whole thing. For us it is Skopje of course, it is not "Macedonian". So, starting in 1993 and while the European Union and the European Council had justified us not to recognise the name 'Macedonia', that the name 'Macedonia' should not exist, New Democracy agreed to exist in Macedonia in the 'Macedonian Republic of Macedonia'. Since then a huge struggle has begun and we see that ultimately this little dot on the map, the Skopje, have been struggling to identify themselves, with a name they don't deserve and are not entitled to. We also see the Greek governments that sell that name out every day. And so we arrive a few months ago, when SYRIZA says that there will be this recognition of that name. The New Democracy does not make any move as a Qualified Opposition. In fact, at the first rally held in Thessaloniki, she says that she should not participate either her executives or support it, but then seeing the enormous resonance she has on the Greek people, she begins and is changing her mind. And he says, "If we're going to take a vote more than that, we're going to elect a government, and we're going to do some fake self-response, we're going to play it one more time." So he's got the story. So what Mitsotakis said a little while ago, the slogan that all democracy is plucking out Macedonia is reality, it's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u357	Do you repeat it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u358	Once again, I will repeat it. So we see the SYRIZA position here, we saw it a few hours ago. In fact, the Prime Minister, Tsipras, spoke - he did the patriots here a little bit - for patriotism. Who? Tsipras and SYRIZA talked about patriotism. And he said, "Let's not go on like this now, because if they go on, we won't recognize them, we won't accept the agreement." And before he came down from the Step of the Parliament, Zaev goes out and says he is a proud "Macedonian" who proudly speaks the "Macedonian language". The Prime Minister went down, I don't know where he's gone now, at his house, that statement was forgotten. But of course they will pass this deal at any price. And if some people want to say that this is where there was no treason and that everything has just been done by mistake, we continue to say the opposite. So here we see the SYRIZA executive - to see that everything is not random and the Greek people know it very well - someone named Lampsides, who will also be a candidate mayor in the region of Kalamaria, to make a announcement - yesterday I think or today early, and to call for the gathering that the Prime Minister of Greece, Tsipras, will speak on the 14th of the month in Thessaloniki. And he has called on the world to attend by making a statement that is written in Slavic and indeed in fake, as they call it. So that's the announcement that SYRIZA's executive got out. No announcement from the symbiotes! No announcement from the ANELs! No announcement from all these patriots! I did not say that he would be deleted, because that is not the case, because it is their permanent position. Please hold this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see, then, that SYRIZA's executives are envisioning for Thessaloniki, for our Macedonia. That's what they thought, that's what they think, and that's what they're still doing. So don't make fun of us talking here about patriotism. And here we have - I'm telling you - continuous acid and ridiculous things, co-pilot Panos Burned out, ripe and say things. The Group of the European People's Party did indeed have a meeting today to decide on their position. What parliamentary? Five are all left and four, I don't know how many people they are. And what did they decide? They have decided what they have been telling us for so long, the fairy tale they are doing, that they support this government, that they are allowed to negotiate, yes, they are entitled to make time, ground, everything, to pass the agreement through their own Parliament, yes, they will come here, unfortunately, this thing until the end of January. And after he has given all this plenty of time to his coup d'état, Tsipras, to humiliate our homeland, there he will lift up the jaw of war and shoot, behead the government and go away. So they've seen the Greek people, so we've been rated by everyone we're out of this Chamber. They think they can really laugh at us in our faces. So this mocking is hugging with Tsipras and the SYRIZA ministers, who sell the country. But if he had a trace of patriotic conscience, he had to have thrown that government away from the first moment. And here comes another question now. In fact, we have heard the SYRIZA Ministers teach us about democracy when a decision they make is about 85% of Greek citizens. 80%, about 85% of Greeks don't want this deal. But they don't know. These are little laughed-out kids who've been fooled. The truth and the good of the country Tsipras knows her, the ministers of SYRIZA know her. They know what's good. The rest of Greece do not know that it is for the benefit of Greece that Skopje is recognised as "Macedonia", they do not know that. This 80% of people who come out with blue-white, tearing when they hear the national anthem, who serve their homeland and don't get crazy papers to sit in their homes, are not patriots, they don't know the reality. Tsipras and his plus ministers know the good of Greece and Macedonia. For our own good! That's the way it is, so they've found it. And the question falls here: Since Tsipras is in this difficult position - which is not, because he will gladly sell out Macedonia - why does he not leave the hot potato in the New Democracy? Because that's where a lot of people will laugh. So the New Democracy of the Macedonian people for the last eight months should come and see if it does not vote and if it does not apply this agreement. But this is not what Tsipras will do, because the political system is transporting containers and the New Democracy must not be burned on this national issue at this time. Tsipras and his co-government must take all the weight to him so that the New Democracy can then come in and play innocent blood for what has happened. But I have read to you here that since 1993 the New Democracy has been selling it out. That's how the political game is in our homeland. We are being sold off, betrayed and spoken in the name of democracy by those who represent 15%. So the rest of us, being 85%, are the bad fascists. I would like to refer a little to the bill, but as the debate went today I did not have time. I have to say that the solution will be given by the Golden Dawn within the Greek Parliament and outside Parliament by the Greek patriots and especially by the Greek youth, who once again proves that it holds the blue-white, knows very well what it is doing and you all know - and you are in trouble - that during periods of economic impoverishment the Greeks may not have gone on the road to protest for 50 or 100 euros, but on national issues the Greeks have come out on the road, they are single and they will fight. And one last thing: As we understood the example from France and the yellow vests, this democracy that you all represent, does not understand either from the right or from the right or from the right. He understands from a race. When the world goes on the road, when the people rise for what you're doing, then your wizards and your smarts go for a walk and you become God's lambs. This will also be the case in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u359	Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, may I say a phrase on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u361	It's not the world, Mr. Cironi. You want to direct the conversation? Please. Let the Minister table the legislative improvements, to state which parliamentary amendments he is accepting, to inform Members, and then I will give you the floor. What if you take the floor after three or four minutes? Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u362	In the parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Gas and Mr Pavlides, which I said was accepted, the correct deposit numbers are general 1850 and specialist 169. That's a correction. Second correction, another amendment by Mr Manda has been tabled on the conditions for the participation of doctors of the ESS in calls for positions of the year 2019, which is accepted, and is number 1849/168. Thirdly, we are tabling some legislative improvements to the Ministry of Finance's amendment. We are actually removing from the Ministry of Finance's amendment the provisions in the Labour Inspectorate's amendment, some of which are changes in the employees' employees' wages of the Labour Inspectorate. They won't go any further. They will be removed from this general amendment from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chironi, what's the staff? First you will mention what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u364	The fact that Mr Georgiadis referred to my face with a reduced character, which is not about what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u365	You have a minute to say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Georgiadis arguing against me said I was wrong. He used only one argument that Mr Zaev said "Macedonna", that he speaks the "Macedonian" language. But today without the Prespecies Agreement, all the residents of this country say Macedonians, that they speak the "Macedonian language" and all we are going to ensure is at least not to say that they are descendants of Alexander the Great, as Mr. Gruevski says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u367	Well, it was nothing other than personal, so it was. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I want to denounce reproduction within the Greek Parliament of this misery for comrade Manolis Lampsidis, who allegedly wrote in "Macedonian" or I don't know what, and this shows the conclusions made by Mr. Rabbi of the well-known Nazi format. I want to report it. From the first moment, Mr. Lampsidis has disproved these make news. This is known throughout the wider society of Thessaloniki. And it is another proof - and I am ending with this, Mr President - that the extremist nationalist circles are doing everything they can to create a climate of polarisation in Thessaloniki ahead of the Prime Minister's speech on Friday at the Old De Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u369	Good, Mr. Mada. Before you take the floor, Mr Georganta, I would like to inform you that we will give the floor after Mr Georgantas to Mrs Christodoulopoulos, because she will follow me to the Bureau at 20.00 a.m. If there is no disagreement between the other colleagues, who do not think there is, I would suggest that - in that sense - they are last on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u370	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u371	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, thank you. In the five minutes I have to raise three issues. Firstly, with regard to the Skopje, because today much has been said in this House, I have one word to say, ladies and gentlemen. No serious, responsible Prime Minister, aware of his historic moment and responsibility, would there be no one who would not denounce this agreement on its way. The top for me is the day of the first vote, where Prime Minister Zaev votes in a polling centre, behind which is the map of "Greek Macedonia", as they want to call it. It cannot be voted, and back to be Thessaloniki along with Skopje, a state and no one will react from the official government! I can't think about it. It outpaces me as a Greek congressman, it outpaces me as a Macedonian. It's the top one. Everything else is other words to be loved in here. Zafe voted and we were spit in the face. From behind it was the image of 'Great Macedonia' and we are still talking about whether the agreement is good or not? I would like to believe that in the next period, whether in the circumstances that are created or in the understanding of the subject by an even greater part of the Greek people, we will also have SYRIZA Members who will feel the burden of this choice. I'm leaving Skopje. I'm going to the bill. Some of SYRIZA's colleagues are coming here and they are glad that they are voting today for the non-pension of pensions. And they applaud that. I ask them: why did you at some point admit that you voted for a pension cut? Did you ever admit in 2016 or 2017 that your legislative initiatives lead to a reduction in pensions? Didn't you applaud in here the wonderful Katrugalou law, the interventions you made, which maintain a healthy insurance policy, which does not lead to another reduction in pensions? So while you were applauding those choices, now that you get them back, you get them as good and you re-approv them. I'm out of this, too. But I would also like to say two words on the amendment to the 'Help at Home' programme, to make things clear. Mr Ministers and colleagues of SYRIZA, the "Help at Home" programme "has been running for many years beyond the decade as a programme financed by European money. You all know that very well. Since when is it covered by national resources from the budget? From 2011 onwards. To be clear, from 2011 onwards, there is, in theory, the possibility of permanent staff to cover these positions and create organic positions. Was there before 2011? Oh, no. It was a European programme, which we waited every year for funding, sometimes supplemented, sometimes struggled for coming, sometimes stayed unpaid for months all over and covered. Since 2011 there has been this possibility. How many years do you have been ruling since 2011? Four. The New Democracy ruled two and a half. While there was the possibility, these seven years of doing what we were calling for, and once it is a well-established structure, which, in fact, has provided a great service to the social protection of vulnerable groups of the population, you four years have done nothing about it. Indeed, it has been permanent and the opportunity for permanent staff has existed and the financial capacity has not been the big issue. Because as far as I can see, Minister, this programme cost the state budget 60 million a year from 2011 onwards, and it will cost 62.5 million now, because we have a few additional posts. So leave it to your own government that comes and solves a matter. This issue could be solved from 2012 onwards. It just happens not to be solved with you, to start with you. Because as this amendment is written, the way these exceptions are formulated, of course it will be solved for workers after 2019 - unfortunately - because, apart from others, you are putting the call at risk with the exceptions, particularly in relation to the self-government elections. That's why I blame you. You are putting two very important exceptions to the ban that exists a month before the self-government elections and until the new municipal authorities take over, both for the change of agencies and for the recruitment of permanent staff to the municipalities. I hope that these exceptions will not create a problem in this notice, because it is indeed a structure dedicated to skilled staff, which has provided this quality work and permanent work must be created for them. Only one comment on this. I received a letter from the Federation of Deaf Greeks, who reasonably, I think, are asking for an additional moleculation to those who have an adequacy of Greek sign language. Because you understand that many of the thousands of those who benefit from the programme need this particular knowledge so that they can also be given assistance. I think that within the general spirit in Parliament in voting for this amendment, you can see this aspect as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u373	Mrs Christodoulopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u374	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me your position to speak before I go to the Bureau. I want to start with a statement. Our debate today on an observer, who does not know the faces and things in Greece, would perhaps be a form of dissident. That is, on the one hand, to vote for the abolition of the pension cut, and on the other, on the other hand, there is a passion, a disagreement, a constant opposition, a trial of intent, which is inconsistent with this draft law, for which we all agree that it is right, that it is a good thing, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. Why is that? I think what is being judged today is the last act of the drama, while what has happened and determines the moment, is before. The observer can't see the process prior to it. We all know that the opposition parties and, in particular, the New Democracy and the PASOK were one of these systemic forces that voted for memoranda, which they considered an opportunity to modernise the country, which, if the lenders did not put it, would have devised them themselves. And all this literature on the reception of the Memorandum Policy has created the results it has created, the political crisis, the fall of governments, which could not govern over two years. And SYRIZA comes in 2015 and signes the third memorandum. He never hid that he experienced this signature of the third memorial as a wound. He never hid that this event was a defeat, he never hid his grief whenever he was called upon to vote for measures against society. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what society understands, is listening to it, and that is why it has a different approach to SYRIZA. During these difficult times we had the warfare from the Opposition to complete the programme quickly, to complete the evaluation, to immediately implement the measures that we had adopted, so as not to create a problem in the course of the economy, unlike us who were looking for gaps, contradictions, cracks to vote for some measures that would alleviate the social forces that had suffered the painful consequences of the Memorandums. And that society understood and taken into account. It's not like he didn't understand it. He knew what was going on all this time. So we have now arrived after these historic events - in my opinion - at times when we have all lived in this House, to vote for the abolition of the law on pension cuts. You will remember that at the time we accepted a whole criticism, that we supposedly did not have countermeasures, and today we are voting not only on the abolition of the pension cut but also on the countermeasures that were then in that last evaluation agreement. What is going on, after all, with all this process? And I'm asking that, why do we have to give some answers? We have tried, at the time of the humanitarian crisis, to help people by voting for the social income of solidarity, by voting for the law that offers free health care to all people, regardless of whether they are insured or not, and by using all this for the benefit of society. And these people understand them, watch them, and count them. So we come to this day, thanks to the strong negotiating insistence we have had. The IMF was pressing us that it would not pay off and we signed the pension cut law. But today, when the Treaties have changed, we can finally abolish this. This is where conspiracy theory begins. Here it was discovered that this was all because we gave the Prespecies Agreement and gave us not to cut pensions. For precisely because people, because they do not have a comprehensive political plan for society, do not understand exactly what is happening, how the contradictions are formed, how the incidents of the struggle have been recorded before and of the silence and tolerance of the people today, if they are on the record, if they record consciences and how they will be expressed, so they are looking for conspiracy theories, while SYRIZA has been talking about Macedonia since its establishment. He had no way of hiding it. He said all these procedures and the stories with the name and the name, it's a foolishness. Nowadays, then, a conspiracy theory is discovered, what they gave us, they took us, we gave, we took. Society, however, understands that all of this is an escape, and today it is given the opportunity to see it, those who are trying to make an overall assessment of the memorials, to see how they were implemented by the previous governments, how they were implemented by us, how this unique course was. Do not forget that in the two previous memoranda, the world was on the way and pushed the governments and at the same time governments were making use of the fact that the world was on the way. None of this happened to us and we were fighting alone without anyone pushing us. And they called us "Marie Antoinettes". They despised the bread and they wanted to give it a pantry. We were told we were doing charity. Today the Greek society has understood if we did charity, and where this bill is incorporated, with which we are abolishing previous laws. I think this is a historic moment for Parliament. And the fact that it is passed by all the parties in this House shows that they are aware of both the correct and reasonable of this legislative proposal today. And that is worthy, beyond the need to identify the political forces differently, in view of the pre-election period and want to say something above. The point is this and the observer didn't make a mistake. Just what he made a mistake, is not to appreciate the process at the theatre, the previous dramatic acts until the final act, which is the current redemption of this law, which we had to vote on at other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the High School of Nikosian Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is now time for the accounts to be cleared. All that we have been listening to in the past period, concerning the reduction of pensions and how tragically things would have evolved in our country, has proved to be nothing but a misleading policy, in relation to the opposition which was also sought in the early elections. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] On the substance of the matter over time, the mismanagement of insurance as a result of the uncontrolled and targeted benefits advanced by the governments concerned for voting reasons is evidently contributing to the country's bankruptcy. Who has commanded the previous years is well known. The problem was already known, at least since the end of the 1990s. The Sprau study shows the reality: The amount of pensions that the system redistributes has climbed to a level much higher than that corresponding to its potential. In 2000, therefore, the study in the basket of useless people in 2010 in bankruptcy. It doesn't have to be an expert to figure out that this logic was not driving anywhere. The insurance hole was covered by the State budget on the substance with an indirect increase in contributions, which they charged to unsuspecting citizens. And since the revenues from taxation were never sufficient in the times of Greece's public finances, the hole in the insurance was covered - like the other public holes - by borrowings that were "done" because decades of debt. The crime the governments have all committed over the last decades who have conducted micro-policy and have shown unprecedented populism, has been called upon to deal with it in 2016 between the pressure on creditors and the legitimate popular reaction. It was evident, under the economic circumstances at the time, that any increase in contributions was more likely to lead to a reduction in inputs than to an increase in inputs. That is why we proceeded in 2015 to the regulation of debts - the known 100 instalments - and in 2016 to the reduction of the contributions for the vast majority of free professionals. The project, as expected, yielded. So today, with the sacrifices of the Greek people and respect for the hardship of the Greek people, it is possible not to cut pensions which are paid to the citizens. In 2014 - I recall - the problem was whether pensions and wages would be paid. In 2015, it was the year we tried to put the situation together and in 2016, it was the year we had to legislate - as we did - a viable and accessible insurance system that could "lift it up" the economy. So we did. I just remind you that the Katorugalou law did not impose any total reduction in pensions, as you claim. On the contrary, it was imposed in the context of the third evaluation. And with Law 4472/2017 it was planned to reduce from 2% to 18%, since of course the targets were not met. The targets were caught and unfortunately you were lost, because you invested in something that you thought would give you the elections. Today, however, we come here and instead of discussing this issue, much of the debate was about the so-called 'Macedonian'. I would not speak at all on this subject, but I was provoked - and I was very strongly provoked - by the Chief of Police of the Hellenic People when he said that this result, that is, the non-summary of pensions - insulting the Greek people - is not about the sacrifices of the Greek people, it is not about the government respecting the fighting of the Greek people and it has achieved concrete results, but it has been a transaction in relation to the agreement. I would like to remind him, then, very kindly that he was not my own father who said in ten years that we will have forgotten the issue, nor will my sister who in 2008 in Bucharest said that he was in favour of a complex name with a geographical designation. Also from this, the Step of the House in front of five Macedonian MPs - I do not think it is necessary to mention their name - said that it is also in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, since it will only concern geographical definitions. And Mr Samaras' Minister for Foreign Affairs said from the United Nations Step that he was in favour of an agreement that would have the so-called complex name. That's it to restore things. As far as the substance of the agreement is concerned, I am unfortunately obliged to say that you have not read the agreement at all. Let's have you watched, at least, the meeting that the State Department held. I'm not even talking about the subject of language. It goes without saying that it relates to a language belonging to the family of southern Slavic languages and nothing to do with ancient Greek Macedonia. And he could not have, since those who created their alphabet, one was born in 815 C.E. And the other in 827 C.E. I'm talking about Cyril and Methodium. So in the 9th century you cannot compare to any language spoken five centuries before the birth of Christ. But even in the other big part, which is considered - the experts at least as expressed to an audience of experts, I stress this - that we took what was meant to be the name - the end of the "Macedonia Republic" definitively ends, and in its place comes the "Republic of Northern Macedonia", which is the geographical designation, was our target for the century - there is also the other cause concerning the term "nationality". If you read how the northern neighbours translate the text from English to their own language, to the south-Slavic, you would find that they are referred to as the term ‘grazdanstvo’, which is etymologically but also signifiably attributed to English as ‘citizenship’ or to Greek as ‘costship’. Nor do they put the term 'national' himself. And 'national', really, cannot be rendered by any contract. These conventions are governed by the Vienna International Convention, which defines what can and cannot be agreed. So let the words be counted. As far as the agreement and the excesses which are heard by the two nationalists are concerned - the leader of Skopje is already in Hungary, this is the fate of all the nationalists - on our side will be left out for too many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to vote on the non-extension of the pension reduction. At this point I would like a little to look into the past and remember exactly what opposition has been saying on this issue since April this year. Remember that we were told that it is impossible to achieve this because there are international agreements which bind us and that we lie to the Greek people that the reduction in pensions is impossible to achieve by the present government. The most important thing of all is that the pain had taken them back then and the opposition - in the meantime - had tabled amendments, in the middle of the day, to abolish this provision. And I say 'there was pain in them' because everyone realises that the people who reduced pensions to 43% is impossible - not to say unthinkable - to show such a warmth and such interest in what the law that had been passed by the House on our days, under the death and pressure regime, in order to close the second evaluation. Since then, we have said that we will try not to implement this measure and no one has believed it by Opposition. That is why very easily they had been indulged in this rhetoric, which you finally saw when it ended up. I would therefore like to say that the attitude of the opposition parties at that time has shown what they believed in this particular act of the government, the current one, that is, no vote - abolition of the reduction in pensions. They firmly believed that pensions would be reduced. The most important thing of all is that they had included it in their programme, not only because the law that had been passed provided for it, but because the poverty and desertification of society was the permanent policy that they have followed in recent years. Today, then, they came here to justify unjustified. The Vice-President of Parliament was right to say that. What did they say? That what we have today succeeded and are forced by de facto to vote is the product of a transaction. Instead of claims, we are, ladies and gentlemen, in front of conspiracy scenarios. Where do these claims come from? Is it from a statement by a European official that he has entered into a deal with the government? Did it arise from a real incident, which they make through these claims? Nowhere. These are inventions that show deep-seated analyses, so that they can at the end say that there has been a transaction here again. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how can you in front of such scientific fiction scenarios, in conspiracy scenarios, answer? Can he answer in a reasonable way? Can he answer with reasonable arguments? Can he respond with real facts? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already taken up an amendment which I have tabled to prevent farmers from confiscating agricultural subsidies in Zakynthos because of the earthquake that has tested my place and is still causing problems. I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arahovitis, because, in cooperation with him, this amendment was tabled. However, I would like to say that what will apply to the state of emergency for the farmers in Zakynthos should apply to all Greek farmers. And I would stress that, Madam President, for the simple reason. Farm subsidies are the vehicle to keep agricultural production alive. If we confiscate agricultural subsidies, then we are actually dismantling agricultural production. And what is in the design of the Ministry of Rural Development must be directly legislated for all the farmers in the country. And I believe that the government can implement it directly in legislation. Madam President, a few days ago I had spoken in plenary and referred to an unacceptable decision by the Competition Committee, as regards the operative part and the amount of the fine, which it had imposed. Unfortunately, I noticed that a formerly-approved journalist - the 'former' - was consumed, not only in contagion at my expense - who is also used to highlight what man has - but also in lies and slander. It seems from a formerly acclaimed journalist that he has changed to a Marinaki graph, who, you all know, how much he likes me. I thank him for this writing. I'm very honored. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that today the rural world in Zakynthos, not only for this amendment, but also for the fact that the Minister responsible for Rural Development announced the end of the wine tax, will also be very pleased with the Ministry of Finance, of course, Mrs Papanatziou. I would like to say, therefore, that today's sitting, like the previous one, is of historic importance, because today it has begun to erupt all those Memorandum taxes and all those measures, which were classified as anti-grassroots, and this government is fully in line with its announcements. That is exactly how the credibility and political integrity of the government are confirmed, with measures that they implement exactly as they had announced. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u379	At 20.30 a.m. the Minister has asked to intervene. Mrs. Arabaji has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin on the basis of what former Minister of Justice Mr Kontonis said, on the basis of the amendment approved by the Minister for the farmers of your constituency. Of course, we consent and have nothing to do with people who have actually been affected by this adverse phenomenon. But I have two questions to ask the government. I wonder what Mr Arachovitis, with the assumption of his Minister, said from the Step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki and, of course, did also repeat his former predecessor, Mr Apostlelos, about the incomprehensibility of agricultural subsidies, which I am passing away, why do you have to remember this here - you have taxed, by law of your own government, Mrs Papanatziou, EUR 15 000, have gone for a walk? I also want to ask the favourable treatment that the affected Zakynthos farmers have not had, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Ministers, the farmers throughout the country, who, due to the severe consequences of climate change, have suffered the greatest loss of income in recent decades, plus tax and insurance measures and the evacuation of production costs, which your Government has kept them? And one more question I have to ask. Does Zakynthos get cotton? Because I see in the amendment that there is a provision for cotton. As far as I know and the few I know, Zakynthos has no cotton. And I would like to ask: has this incorporation of this provision been accidentally or possibly? I ask and I would like an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, to go to the bill today's meeting revealed in the most vile way the arrogant and arrogant face of this government. We have followed an unprecedented provocative and cynical Prime Minister, who has charged the country with EUR 100 billion and two memos in order to get rid of his delusion, to laugh smug in this House about the damage it caused in the country. He also revealed, however, a deeply dangerous Prime Minister for the interests of this country, a Prime Minister, who, when he heard the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, heard about the truth about the transactions behind closed doors and under the table on the subject of Macedonia, rediscovered the tales of traitors, of nationalists and extremes. We watched together the Ministerial Council standing up to applauding, supposedly being affected by the sale he heard, when the same ministers, as parliamentarians four years ago, in this Chamber, you yelled at and raved about traitors, about Cholacoglou, you asked to lay hangings on the Syntagma Square for us, which we voted on, not of any kind of sale, but fiscal adjustment measures. Do you have the courage, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of condolence, to give us lessons of patriotism and political decency? It is a shame, because the bitter truth, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs, is what our President has told you. You exchanged the "Skopje" with the reduction of pensions. You have exchanged an economic measure, which you should not have voted on, with a major national retreat. Trade Macedonia, with the directed and supposed exit from the memorials. You gave it all for power and sell Macedonia for your ministerial chairs. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, dear colleague, coming from Macedonia, the people of Macedonia and the whole of the country will not swallow it or forgive it with the "bottles" and the tips you share, in the eyes of "father". Therefore, do not in vain with your bizarre and self-sufficient reasons, coming here today to unblock your bills, as all of us remember, especially the Greeks and Greeks who have paid you very much, that the unjustified law on the reduction of pensions you brought him and voted only on you, as well as the tax reduction law, brought him back to you and you voted again, since you had already reduced it once, since you had already reduced it, that the twenty-one cut in pensions, the scrutinisation of widows' pensions, the cutback of the ESS, you did, of course, the reduction of pensions by 35% in main and 45% in subsidiary and again that the "summary law of Katragalou", which you so advertised, finally minus pensions, Minister, as you said by the lawmakers and wasted your soap in committee. Show, then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a little contraction. Finally - because time is too short - I remember the words with which the Prime Minister closed his speech. Cyannically and self-sufficiently, he wished - he said - good courage to the Members of the New Democracy for the difficult days ahead. The good courage - unnecessarily the so-called magnanimity of the Prime Minister - we wish it to you, for the bitter defeat that awaits you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Kelles has the floor, and then the Minister will speak. Keep the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this is not the first time you've brought in a bill of fragmentary and unconnected provisions. Three and a half years now, you have been used to us in legislative manipulation and fragmentation. Of course, you are bringing amendments, amendments, amendments, until the last minute. So today, we are spectators at a theater of irrationality. Only you have achieved this, voting painful measures by yourself and then voting for their abolition, applauding yourselves. In fact, I wonder: Do you read what you are voting on or not? At the moment that we are talking about, one in two Greeks owes tax, while the outstanding public debts touch the 138 billion euros, the growth forecasts are constantly being revised downwards and the Public Investment Programme is falling by 1.3 billion euros. And now, you come and legislate not to cut pensions, and you do well. Who has brought this law to cut pensions, Mrs. Ahtsilou? He's not here, he's out. Didn't you bring L.4472/2017? Didn't you vote for him? Did the New Democracy vote for him? Oh, no. Was that a Memorandum obligation? Oh, no. It was your choice. So ask for an apology from a Greek people. It's not a matter of celebrating because you're repairing your own mistakes. We also tabled an amendment to that effect in July 2018 on the non-budget of pensions and you refused to vote on it. During the debate on the bill in committee, important positions have been made by the bodies and important things have been heard from the representatives of OSCE and ADED, who have pointed out what we have been telling you constantly, both within and outside Parliament. Your attention has been drawn to the degrading rates of the Katrugalo Law, which scans pensions from EUR 900 to EUR 1,300 and brings them to EUR 900 to EUR 850. I ask: Do you have anything to say to these people? Will you abolish this particular law that creates the problem or will you continue to hide behind your finger? By the way, with these widow's pensions, this unacceptable, the embarrassing thing you have done, do you intend to do something? Because we don't see any corrective action. And I keep going. In addition to not reducing pensions, you have followed exactly the same tactic as the insurance contributions and the tax rates of legal persons. Has anyone asked you to vote for their increase? Oh, no. It was your choice. And now, you voted for their limited reduction, and that's only 25% of the professionals. You also voted for the return of some lazy retrospectives with four years of delay and that, not because you wanted it, but because it was a court decision. And I come to Part II of the bill, which concerns the incorporation of the directive into the national legal order. It goes without saying that we are not negative in Union law, but some points are concerned and we should take account of the suggestions made by representatives of insurance companies and associations. In Part III we have reserved for a number of points, which should in any case be the subject of separate legislation to be discussed, because they are not urgent, apart from Article 1, which includes the non-reduction of pensions. Apart from that, and in the rain of amendments, which are mostly irrelevant to the bill, it is important at last that you have brought the regulation on the abolition of excise duty on wine. I am pleased that this issue has been mentioned several times by the previous Minister, Mr Apostleos. It was an unfair measure, which affected agricultural production and winegrowing. It took two years to implement your promise, but I will say: it's slower than ever. Also, the amendment on 'Help to Home' is an important social regulation and we will, of course, be positive. Tomorrow we shall be discussing the budget, where we shall talk about your things for the whole four years. In favour of last-minute regulations, the people are not being deceived. You will soon be judged in your polls, because the Greek people fortunately have judgment and comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u383	Thank you. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning we have, unfortunately, watched very acute tones. A controversy between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Responsibility. In fact, after eight years, which the country is in budgetary adjustment, the Greek people are going through a great deal of trouble and are looking to find hope to be kept from somewhere. And instead of today having political maturity and having opportunities in the political system to agree, converging and converging, we have seen this polarisation, this confrontation, with a view to the small two-party division of the Greek people. They forget, however, that in these nine years of fiscal adjustment we are the only country that has kept this adjustment so much. Why? Why SYRIZA and New Democracy forget that their common achievement is their antimony front since 2010. Perhaps that's why their common destiny was the prick on what they said in the election. From the Zappeia of New Democracy, we went through the duoulia that SYRIZA would hit and the shaded memoirs with a law, with an article. The memorial shift, of course, did not help to understand and cut off these bad habits. But today we see that others say today, but tomorrow and 'as it suits us'. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the country needs modesty, it needs political and economic stability, shocks and long-term solutions. At the same time, we heard here today - I would never expect to hear it - Mr Kammenos to be a defender of the patriotic PASOK by Andreas Papandreou. What a hypocrisy, my God! Did he forget that Mr. Kammenos was writing books that he was the leader of November 17th? He forgot how many convictions he had, why was he slandering the Papandreou family? On the other hand, we heard the Prime Minister talking about PASOK's bankrupt leadership. When, Prime Minister? Then when did we fight ourselves, in 2010, to keep the country standing by the naughty bankruptcy? What you're covering up with today with your immortal partner, Mr. Karamanlis, who gave us the debts he gave us? You said then that we were a Pinochet government, pilgrims and germans. Executives deserve it - he says - for making the political transfer against the election of the president in 2014. Then you remember the redeployment of the transition to SYRIZA with ministerial court and parliamentary seat. Who? These gynaecologists and policy hunters, who have brought them to the most worthy political men in Parliament, those who voted for all the memoranda. Because the speaker and voted against a memorandum and was deleted, however, remained ideologically in one place to support it, because he believes that this democratic party and PASOK offered most of the country. If we take the positive and the negative today, the balance for the country in what PASOK offered is the weight for the positive ones. So, today, for bad behavior of some people from this area, you can come and fly the retreat of collective responsibility to all PASOK executives. On the other hand, it says, 'the world is with us'. What world is with you? The world, when you had a delusional and blurred mind and promised rocked rabbits and gave you his vote, so that he could come in 2015 and continue with the Thessaloniki Programme again with appointed MPs? Now let me see how many dirt the bag fits. Now that the management of the crisis has all three ideological features, and the Greek people are now unhappy about how to vote. He will think who told him the truth from the first moment and who has deceived him. Let's see, now that you're going to come down to the Greek people to ask for his vote, how many of the people you cheated with you and how many of them you've brought them up to great executives will be elected. You don't find any mayors to put you down to the self-government election. Do you have the impression that these percentages, which the paid websites give you, will the paid polls come and find them next in the polls? You're long overnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u385	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u386	Madam President, I would just like to conclude by saying that Mr Katrugalou' s insurance reform, for this Armageddon, is something that the trade unions have put forward and that I too, too, can present. The counter-reformation of the insurance system is as it says in the document submitted to the committee of Parliament, "by far worse than the memorandum of insurance laws, which were tabled during the crisis." It is much worse either in terms of adjustment rates or of poverty benefits, which has become pensions. And today you have the logic, not of ten, I take one, but you take a cane of oil, and you give an olive to the world that you've entangled him in this sense of poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u387	Mr Ahtsoglou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, the legislation that we are going to vote on today for the cancellation of a definitive and irrevocable pension reduction measure, which would apply from 1 to 2019, is a fact which confirms certain positions expressed in the previous period and, at the same time, disguises equally strong other positions and predictions that have prevailed in the public debate in the past period. It confirms, first, the permanent position of the Greek Government that this measure was inappropriate, structural and budgetary. Structurally for the insurance system, because the insurance system is standing on its feet and has long-term sustainability, without having to intervene in pension expenditure and in budgetary terms, because the Greek economy with the initiatives taken by the Greek Government can achieve the budgetary targets without needing fiscal adjustment measures. This was a permanent position which the Greek Government expressed during the negotiations and is now confirmed in the clearest and most practical way. Secondly, this cancellation confirms a second fact, a second position, which is that the fiscal adjustment cycle has been definitively closed. Above all, this is confirmed by the 2019 budget, but also by this measure even more, because we are ending with budgetary constraints, and we can now go to measures that are expanding, that is, measures to strengthen social benefits and at the same time to alleviate the public's tax and contribution. Therefore, the second, which confirms in any case the specific cancellation of the measure is that the cycle of budgetary adjustment is being closed definitively. There is a definitive end to the process of the memorials, as the country has known them over the last eight years and, in addition, the country, the parliament, the government, can now move on to political choices, be able to move on to policies that choose to cancel measures which are inappropriate to a situation of relative economic freedom, without direct enforcement or coercivement by external institutions, whether they are European institutions or the International Monetary Fund. The annulment of the measure, however, I said that it disproves some positions and provisions as well. which have dominated the public debate over the past period and indeed in an open channel of communication with many media, which at the same time raised the issue of pension cuts very strongly, while this government said "do not bet all your money there, because we are trying and will succeed in our position to cancel the measure". And with regard to destruction, which was basically the core of the planning of the Officerial Opposition, its dominant reason was not only about the reduction of pensions, but also about the state of the Greek economy and the country as a whole in terms of its overall course. Because it was not only a permanent disaster that pensions would be degraded, but it was also a catastrophe for the fact that the Greek economy was not going well, so cuts would come, budgetary constraints would not be able to put an end to the financial constraints, so pensions would be cut off. The country is not going well, so it will not be able to leave the memorandum, so we will be forced into a next memorandum. And on this basis it was based on the fact that the reduction in pensions would constitute precisely the confirmation of the new memorandum, which comes to the country and then that the situation of the insurance system is so bad, tragic, bad, which will necessarily lead to the reduction of pensions. It is therefore a disaster on many levels which has been misused and I think that today it is losing all its size. I was thinking, to tell the truth, whether it should be my position today, to refer to the conditions under which the second assessment took place. The position taken by the International Monetary Fund, the veto, which was assigned to it by the European institutions, is that of insisting on the discussions that took place at the time, all of which have an experiential character, which I do not think is of particular interest to Parliament. However, what I think is of political value is the attitude taken by the Greek Government at the time and so far, that is to say, a attitude of day-to-day work and hard insistence on the cancellation of the measure, and it has managed to take precedence over this position, but also the attitude of the Qualified Opposition in all this effort by the Greek Government. You know, I heard Mr Georgiadis a moment ago, almost saying that he supported us in trying to cancel the measure. If we weren't, he said, and we'd keep and support you in this effort, you wouldn't have succeeded. How exactly did you stand up for us in this effort to understand it? Did you support us in this attempt, when we negotiated for the second assessment, and we heard you say, 'Take so many more measures to close'? Did you support us when we negotiated labour relations - and you, with your President, said that these are the ideas of the Left - that the collective bargaining in the country, which now thanks to them, tens of thousands of workers can achieve better wages? Is that how you stood up for us? Did you support us when Mr Moscovisi came here and left the door open for the cancellation of the measure that you attacked him, because that would get your program out of direction and cancel the opposition account? Was that exactly the support? This kind of political support, I do not understand it here. I think there are two factors here - at least that's how I see them - who defined this attitude of Officer Opposition in this whole case. The first is obvious: the acquisition of political benefits by investment in destruction. "The government sends pensioners to Kavala, so we are better." Clearly. The second and most dangerous, in my opinion, is the overall picture and intention of the country's insurance system. A position, expressed by the events of the Officerial Response as it was a government, i.e. the dissolution of the country's insurance system, 1,1 billion deficit in the insurance system after twelve successive pension cuts and four hundred thousand unpaid pensions and one single one. This was the picture given by the Qualifying Anti-Civilisation, as long as it was a government, in the insurance sector, as long as this government is trying to set up the insurance system on its feet, with 'fake news', that the insurance system collapses, that there are bombs on the foundations of EKKA, that the contributions are white and that pensions will also be reduced by the attitude of its planned positions on what insurance wants for the next day, the Pinochet insurance, which delivers pillars of the public social security system to private insurance companies, without any protection of the current pensioners and insured and with a huge hole, which would create the application of such a proposal to public finances, a EUR 55 billion gap, as I have said. But I have heard Mr Brutsi, and we have to respond to a few issues, because Mr Brutsi said that some truths need to be spoken, because there is the reality that is being violated. So he said, Mr. Brutsis, about that the state of the economy in the country in 2014 was at a balance and we, the SYRIZA government, went to a naughty budgetary retreat. Mr. Brutsis, you agreed a primary surplus of 1.5% and brought a primary surplus of 0.4%. Right? That definitely means off target. And it wasn't the first year this was happening. Since 2010, there has not been a year since, to achieve the budgetary objectives to which you have agreed. That was why the institutions had then led to say that the programme, which you signed, was inversely off course. So there was no question of us ending this program clearly. As much as you want to say that something like this would happen, it didn't seem from the data. You agreed on primary surpluses next year, about 3%, while last year you were unable to catch 1.5%, and you agreed on 4% in the medium term. How exactly would you take those goals when you hadn't achieved any of the previous years, that would happen? So, all this conversation that "the program was going well, it would be over and then Tsipras came, who made a mistaken negotiation and took us to an unnecessarily memorial" doesn't seem to be confirmed by reality. In December 2014, the yield of the ten-year Greek bond was more than 8%. What exactly was the balance of the Greek economy? Let me also ask: If that picture was balanced, in what very perception of reality is today's picture more unbalanced? With today's picture, we have since 2015 and after full achievement of the budgetary targets, primary surpluses lower than those agreed by you - I am not saying, and once again above your own - the full achievement of the objectives and unemployment which is reduced by about six and a half percentage points from when you were government. So, in what very perception of the reality that picture was balance and today’s picture is unbalanced? I'm saying this because you're telling me that reality is being violated. I'm on my way to insurance. You insist that the new insurance is dramatically reducing pensions. You said it cuts them 35%. Repeat the information I had told you last time in the House: The average pension at the IKA, before L.4387/2016, was EUR 728. After Law No.4387 is EUR 722. I also say this for the JRC Members, who have huge differences in pensions, who do not actually respond. The average pension of the OGA was EUR 469 before the insurance law. After the insurance law, it's 481 euros. There's an increase in the pensioners of the former OGA. The average pension of the former OSCE was EUR 927. The new law is 902 euros. There is a small reduction in the pensions of the former OAU, because the system calculated by the OAU's pensions provided an amount that was independent of the actual contribution they had paid. So, as a general rule, we are about the same in terms of average pension levels. I repeat, if these pensions are low - to accept - they were low before. It is not the new law, which breaks them down. Thirdly, you said about contributions increases again. I repeat - the Prime Minister said so - that 88% of the free professionals, self-employed and farmers paid up to 200 euros a month with the new insurance policy. The percentage of these professionals, before the law, was 27%. 27% paid up to 200 euros a month. With the new insurance, 88% pays up to 200 euros a month. In what sense is the new insurance burden on the insured? Fourthly, you said again that as long as the state budget finances the insurance, it cannot be a surplus. Let's get to it. The public social security system has state funding. The funding of the Public Social Security System is from the contributions and from the State budget. This is the public social security system in all European systems. If you don't want State participation in the insurance system, you can tell us. This is another conversation. It is good to say that this position clearly, because your President refers to the penetration of the private sector, to take over the current pillars of public security. In all European systems, public systems, we normally have State involvement in the public social security system. And that's what it's supposed to be about us. In fact, this has been clarified very clearly by Mr No.4387. It says that the national pension paid to all pensioners who meet the retirement age is financed by the state budget. The state budget will always cover national pensions and good, because this is the public social security system. What does he mean to have a surplus of money on the EBRD? He will say that, when EFCA started and we budgeted him with the given state funding, at the end of the year, the revenues were much more than expected. Why? I have responded several times: as a rule, because of the decline in unemployment. That was the main factor. Revenue increased because employment in the country increased. That's what happened in 2017. This is done in 2018. And probably, that's what's gonna happen in 2019. The 2019 budget - you will see it for the EBRD you are saying - includes state funding - we have slightly reduced it, because it makes no sense to build beastly surpluses in the insurance fund, since it goes well with its revenue - and it has the normal income that we will have from contributions and normal pension expenditure. If things go better than this, there will be a surplus again to the EMCDDA for 2019. You said something about the loan we got for the settlement of due dates. Yes, we received a loan of 500 million for the settlement of arrears, for the payment of pensions, which we paid for. And we put another 250 million on it, 'cause we're paying for the pensions. And you had taken a loan to pay the ones, and you didn't pay them. That's the difference, that you got a loan to pay the one-offs, and you didn't pay it, you didn't clear them, we got a loan to pay the pensions and we paid them and we put in more. And because you said that these are burdening the debt, the SYRIZA Government is the first, since 2016, which covers, not only its costs, but also pays all the public debt interest, because in the period 2016 to 2018 we have a surplus of the general government, not just a primary surplus. We have surpluses in the general government, and that is why we can normally pay the interest on the loan. And along with the restructuring of the debt we have achieved this summer - because you cannot forget that when you make your account - we managed to get the debt into a viability path. This is in relation to what Mr Brutsi said. To close, 'cause I don't have much time. This government has made a very clear political decision to strengthen the public social security system. A similar decision has also been made for health, to strengthen the public health system. We protect pensions, reduce contributions, pay dues and close wounds of the past. And the measures that we are voting on and are taking from 21 August onwards, in practice, confirm this. Such, is the current pension protection measure for 2019. It's the increase, which will see six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners from 1-1-2019. Therefore, for the first time in ten years in this country, we will not have a pension reduction, but we will have pension increases and wage increases. Such measures are the measures we take to combat infringement in the labour market, because we cannot see the insurance sector being disconnected from the labour market. The same is the reintroduction of collective bargaining, which enables wage increases. Why can't one see the insurance separate from the labour market. Such a measure is our actions to reduce unemployment. We are bringing results to 18.6%, because we cannot see the insurance policy without seeing the labour market situation in the country. We therefore prove that in practice. These actions are the ones for us, which are the fulfillment of our debt to society. These actions are those which continue to link us to society and as long as the time goes, they will connect us even more. And for those who do not understand, it is these actions which separate us from the old political system, which only serves specific economic interests. The more these actions will connect us to society, the more they separate us from the service of the economic elite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u390	Madam President, on a point of order. I want to make a comment on what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u391	Aren't you going to have second thoughts?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u392	That'll be my dentistry. Now let me put myself on the table, so that we can have a little bit of an interest in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u393	I say this because the next Members have announced. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u394	I won't talk long and I won't exacerbate the climate. I want us to have a qualitative debate, because we are entering an interesting part of a technical debate that may not be of interest to the world, but I want what I said and my position to do again. Let us tell the truth and the reality which Mrs Ahtsoglou diligently hides. Madam Minister, the New Democracy is the party that has maintained the social, public and universal nature of social security. I don't understand why you're bringing it back. It's my proxy position. Social security is something that the New Democracy has maintained and remains unchanged. So you pick her up. I do not understand your suggestions and your questions. I now come to economic matters, which you have said. Yes, indeed, the recompense and the redistributive system involved in the state budget is in most European countries. Nobody said anything different. But when the state budget, with your own figures - the paper I keep, is with a budget that you submitted and we will discuss tomorrow, but also with the EPCA that you submitted three days ago - we pay EUR 25 billion for the main pensions, when the contributions for 2019 are EUR 9.5 billion, it means that the state budget is too critical and must exist. But what does that say? He says there are no surpluses. How do we do it? In the question - the shape of speech - you raised from the Step of the House that you are creating surpluses for what is the answer. You don't answer. I told you the evidence. With your own information, Mrs Ahtsoglou, - you submitted it the other day - you write: "EKA's surplus budget for 2017: 715 million". You say so. In code 6,000, you've got an emergency income of 1 billion. I mean, you've suddenly taken out of the state budget of 1 billion and overthrown the result. That's called alchemy. In 2018 you have a surplus of 581 million, again 1 billion extra revenues. Then again, make alchemy, cooking, to present the unprecedented one. In history, no Minister has ever presented a primary surplus in an insurance system financed by the state budget. And what I said and did not reply to the end, which is the most critical, is this: three days ago you tabled this paper here, which is the budget of the EPC. It's been published. It's not new. So you say that the surplus for 2019 will be 245 million. I have caused you, from a step of the House, and I have told you: with mathematical certainty, this budget will be overturned, it cannot stand up and you will be forced to refinance it. Hold the date we're talking. So I tell you that, first of all, the 2019 budget is in the air, secondly, that what you have tabled is not true, you have done so for reasons of impression, it is an alchemy again and very soon you will be forced to deposit new money from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u396	Madam President, may I have the floor to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u397	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u398	The first is why there are hints - it says - that the New Democracy is not in favour of the public social security system. No, there are no hints. They're programming positions. The President expressed you. It's not a question of insinuation. It is a very clear position, expressed by your President, not once, but many. So he said that subsidiary insurance, which is currently under the constitution, is on the public pillar of social security - guaranteed by the state - to be voluntary and, if the people are willing to do so, to private insurance companies. I did, last time I had the opportunity, a presentation of what this would mean for the public social security system, the insured and the pensioners, and I said that because our system is 'pay as you go', that is, today's contributions pay today's pensions if you draw the contributions of people insured outside the system and tell them 'those who want to put into insurance', you actually leave the payment of today's supplementary pensions unresolved. It's simple. I didn't say anything complicated. I'm just explaining what the New Democracy's proposal for insurance means. That's not a hint. It's a clean spot. If you draw contributions from the system at the moment, today's supplementary pensions cannot be paid. Two and a half million pensioners will be in the air. Are they gonna stay in the air? I guess not. They should be covered by the state budget. What would this state budget mean? It would mean a burden of EUR 30 billion, as calculated by the Ministry of Labour, with the data it has. In other words, 30 billion euros in a country with a GDP of 190, to figure out what this issue means. There are not only current pensioners, however, who will be affected by such a development. There are currently members of subsidiary insurance who, for what they have already paid, have to expect a provision. That's good. Either we leave them in the air, because the contributions have gone, they have gone to private insurance companies or the state will have to go back in to cover this hole. How much does that hole have to be covered? Approximately 25 billion. The total cost of moving to Pinochet insurance, as your Member said, is EUR 55 billion. I'm not the only one saying it. It is not just the services who have worked in this costing. They call it topical, as you will see, socio-security analysts. That was your proposal, which I think, if something very clearly bears witness, is that we do not protect today's insured and retired people, we do not protect public finances. Where exactly are we headed? What do we care? I guess we're gonna go ahead with the private insurance companies. Do not forget that Mr Hatzidakis, at the same time as you formulated this proposal, was telling a television interview how excellent returns private insurance companies have and how much of an increase those who put their money there will receive. So it's not my problem. This proposal comes from your own lips. Secondly, as far as the surplus is concerned, I think I have explained exactly what a surplus means, what it means when you make a budget end up being surplus. But to respond to the second level of what you say: you say that we are doing an alchemy, that is to say that the insurance has a hole, because the contributions are not enough to pay pensions. I can tell you again that here we have a disagreement of principle. Public insurance is not a bank, it's the state's provision. The state budget is being intervened to strengthen pensions. But let's put that aside. You say that, since the contributions are not sufficient for the payment of pensions and the state budget comes in, Ahchioglu makes an alchemy and instead of the state budget giving what is missing, it gives more to show a surplus. This is not right and one can see it from the following difference: we can see state funding for insurance as a percentage of GDP. Right? Is state funding in insurance, as a percentage of GDP, about the same in recent years? If so, is it the same to us and to you, then why do you produce deficits and we produce surpluses?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u399	What was that? We have never said anything about surpluses. You didn't answer us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u400	I will no longer let dialogue take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u401	Madam President, do not come back to breakfast, please! That's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u402	No, we're not coming back. We've explained why he's coming back and coming back. I shall now give the floor to Mr Fotilla, then to Mr Psychogios alternating, then to Mr Manda as the Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, who has a six-minute left, and finally to Mrs Papanatsiou, who has asked for the floor. Ms. Papanaceu, I'll give you the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u403	Madam President, how many more speakers are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u404	Ten people. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking about a title for today's bill. The first to come to my mind is the title of a theatrical play, which has been played these days with great success of the great writer Pirantello, "Tonight we are improvising". And not to blame the great theatrical writer, the only thing that fits is the title, because "Tonight we improvise" is based on an excellent theatrical text - he has what we say in film, script - and your work is based only on improvisations, assholes and hypocrisy. It's - I'd say - a kind of stand - up comedy. And we'd have fun if this bad joke wasn't playing on the back of the Greek people, who came to power with the promise that you would improve life and end up with the worst nightmare. Of course, like any play in the play, the critics come. So listen to the reviews of your work: The figures published by IOBE in November 2018 are very revealing. 57% of our fellow citizens, just as they are making it out of 57%, which is marginally making it, 14% have been forced to resort to any savings, to pay their tax obligations and the various taxes that you have imposed on them. For saving, not a reason! Corresponding data had been published several days ago by the European Commission for the Management of Poverty in Europe. Our country, on your government, is in the last place. And besides, what has been foreseen since the beginning of 2019? A shock! Those workers, in other words, who are retired from New Year's 2019 and who will find that the salaries they are entitled to will be up to 40% lower than the earnings of all those who are lucky, retired until 31 December 2018. In a few days' time, they will be informed when they read the detailed clearing notes of their older colleagues, who will receive the unreduced pension in January 2019. There will be a detailed record of the amount of the pension, based on the recalculation of the Katrugalos Act, how this amount is corrected by the amendment of the Deputy Minister Petersburg and how this amount of the correction is lost by 100% by pensioners who come out of the pension from 1-1-2019. And who will be the ones who will be driven and abused more than the pensioners of 2018 and earlier? Workers with the majority of years of insurance and the highest contributions paid. The more they paid, the less they'll get. These are the consequences of the Katorugalos law, which is a piece of bread and bread, due to its devastating effects. And well, we're destroying it. The representatives of the GFCM, the ADEDY, the ancillary funds, who, in particular, told you the same thing about the Katorugalos law, all of them are of the New Democracy? And the saddest thing you're doing is that our country will officially have the saddest privilege of many speed pensioners. Listen: those who retired before May 2016, those who retired after May 2016, but before December 2017, those who retired after May 2016, but before December 2018 and those who retired since 2019. Of course, all of this is not surprising, as we have not been surprised by the arrogant attitude and position of the Prime Minister earlier than this step, a Prime Minister who has really lost any contact with the citizens for some time now. He wasn't ashamed to tell our fellow citizens in Matty that they lost property and loved people that - listen! - He doesn't give them their money, even though they deserve it, because they're gonna waste it. A Prime Minister, who beggs for the votes of colleagues to pass the poor Ambassadors' agreement to the House, is more than a few months in power. The whole world has reacted to Mr Zaev's nationalist krone, even our neighbours, the Bulgarians, even the 'kombar' of the agreement has reacted. Only Mr. Tsipras had nothing to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me for a minute to refer to Ministerial Amendment 1839/158. It is an amendment which is proof of the complete failure and collapse of the n. SYRIZANEL's 4472/2017 for supplies to health. The New Democracy has said from the outset that this law is a Stalinist inspiration. In fact, the only thing that interested the government was to centralise supplies, with the aim not of the best results of the measure, but of hatred and complexity. With this amendment you are asking for the dates to be transferred further so that you can make sure that your 'children' are taken care of. Today, a year and a half later, all supplies are made by direct assignments, manifestly illegal. These illegalities will be called upon to handle them, of course, the New Democracy as an upcoming government. And after you've shielded the members of the ESDP Board with the impunity, now you're trying to do the same for the committees. Really, why do the committees have to have an impunity too? I cannot comment on one point in the amendment, which states that supplies will be made binding on the specifications drawn up by the EPC. Really, who can tell us about how many kinds the NSAF has as a debt? He should have five thousand species. Is it for five hundred? Is it for 50? Does it have five? Does he have one? To conclude, I note that the New Democracy is committed to abolishing this law - an abortion of Mr Katrugalos, a law punishing workers and pensioners, who have worked hard and see their labors not to be rewarded. We are not like you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZANEL. We will reward the productive part of society, those who wish to work honestly and hardly, contributing to the progress of the country. And there's most of them. Trust me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are also a majority in the Chamber right now - importantly - and Mr Minister, we have seen, over the past period, a Civic Opposition to wish or not to wish at least to welcome the forthcoming pension cut. This has also been done for various reasons. Or because you prefer to immerse society further, if it helps you to come back to the government or possibly, as you have shown in the past, because the horizontal reduction in pensions has been a friendly practice, which some of you have also put on the ideological cloak, is a structural measure. But this draft law ruins your strategy once again. It is also linked to the other legislation which has been in place all this time in the House aimed at restoring the injustices, alleviating the middle and grassroots strands and strengthening their incomes. For our part, we are in no way claiming that this is a success story. We are well aware that we have a long way to go to heal the wounds and ensure - apart from survival and dignity - that we meet the needs of many. But it is our obligation, against a people who have made so much sacrifices and fought to stand up, to do so. And I think it is necessary to remind you of the Step here, because it is not the case that most of the media are showing up, what has been done lately. With the financial area, which we have secured since the end of the programme since August 2018, we are fighting all fronts to breathe all those affected by the economic crisis. We have therefore already voted for the reintroduction of collective agreements, by the application of the basic principles of expansion and more favourable regulation. They have already started to apply to certain sectors, such as, for example, the difficult hotel staff sector, where a young employee of twenty-one years who took EUR 511, today, at the moment we are talking, takes EUR 780. This, of course, presupposes the continuous and persistent control of the Labour Inspectorate, but also a labour movement, which will demand the widening of collective agreements, of course, will denounce the illegality. While all this is done, ministerial decisions are also expected to increase the minimum wage and abolish the underprivileged, which is disgraceful of the country's working youth. In addition to this, however, we have legislated the one-off payment of retrospectives to stewards, judiciaries, doctors of the ESS, academics, state orchestras and other professional groups, the reduction of insurance contributions for freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers, with an income of 10,000 euros and upwards, as the lower incomes already pay far less and, of course, the further reduction in the insurance contributions of new scientists in 2019, the reduction of HPAI by up to 30%, the distribution of social dividends, and for this year more than three and a half million beneficiaries and the resetting of the profit tax rate in businesses to 25% by 2022, from 29% currently. We have also arranged for the extension of school meals to be done in edu­cation and high school, and many other positive measures. At this point I would also like to refer to the important ministerial amendment tabled in this bill, which provides for the grant of social security contributions for young people, private sector employees, under 25, which will also balance the minimum wage for small and medium-sized enterprises. Another crucial amendment concerns the permanent recruitment of the 'Help at Home' programme, the final number of which is expected to be three thousand two hundred. They are workers, which cover constant and constant needs of the social state and their offer for over fifteen years, which has been in hostage with renewed contracts, is undeniable. I cannot, of course, refer to the amendment on the abolition of excise duty on wine. It is therefore time to cancel in practice, ladies and gentlemen, a tax which created problems and distortions, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises and wine producers. It disproportionately burdened them without having the desired results. We were committed to abolishing it and that is what we are doing with this amendment, reducing producers and strengthening the overall operation of the industry chain. All this proves, in the best way, our central aim and the social mark of our policy. Finally, from the other provisions of the bill, I would like to dwell on that of Article 81(6), which regulates an important issue in my region, Corinthia. In particular, the Ministry of Finance proceeds with the concession of the building of the former Dervenio Peace Court to the relevant municipality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is an excellent architectural and history building, which can now be used for the benefit of the local society and the county, on the basis of proposals put forward and the position it has in the Corinthian Gulf. In this way, we are satisfying a consistent and stable demand from the municipality, citizens and Western Corinth, for which we have been working methodically since 2015 and then we are very happy to be implemented. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress this. By voting on this draft law, all Cassandras are disproved once again. But the road to us is still long and upward, to get to the left and to the people's boo. Here, after all, we have come from a social majority in order to fight together. This is and remains our biggest bet, and I believe that with a lot of work and collective work we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, too. I have a statement to make to this House before I give the floor to Mr Manda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the 5th Xanthi Gymnasio. We welcome you to Parliament and Athens! Have a good time! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Fotillas is gone. There's another famous Pirantello project. It is 'So is, if you think so'. You are completely trapped in this, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, especially of the Officerial Representation, because you think that the reality of this historic day and the historic move to abolish the measure of cutting the personal pensions difference will not be understood by the Greek people. So you think you're deeply mistaken. In May 2017, Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech at that meeting: "In any case, since you so much like this policy mix of the fourth memorandum..." - that's what Mr Mitsotakis said since then - "... which, on the one hand, cuts pensions on the other, gives benefits, why do you get it in 2019? Why don't you apply it from now? Because you know very well that the countermeasures will never be implemented and the measures will be implemented by the next government. You are also saying that measures and countermeasures will be implemented together. Another lie. Read, ladies and gentlemen, carefully what Article 15 says about countermeasures. Firstly, it requires the vote now and the full implementation of measures of EUR 4.9 billion. Secondly, it requires the permanent achievement of high primary surpluses. Thirdly, it presupposes, to give countermeasures, evaluation by the institutions and above all - pay attention! - from the International Monetary Fund. This will decide when, how if the countermeasures are obviously given. And fourthly, of course, they only apply to the part of the overrun of the target of 3.5%. In order to implement fully the countermeasures, a surplus of 5.5% must be achieved. Enjoy Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Vlalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u410	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u411	Rejoice him, because he makes so serious predictions, he has such a serious analysis that he says two years ago. We're coming today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u412	Isolate phrases and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u413	I'm not isolating. You can see them. I read a full quote. Leave it better. It comes today, ladies and gentlemen, that what, in my speech, I was trying to say at the time, is what is happening. What was I saying? Because you are telling us various things, which are not the case, and we have made them clear from the outset. Speaking of the measure of the reduction of personal differences and the measure of tax reduction, I said: 'These both are negative measures. It wasn't in our choice. He's at the patron of dogmatic, hard class policies. We were attacked. We are trying to compensate for the countermeasures, zero participation in medicines for those with monthly individual income below EUR 700, the rental allowance for six hundred thousand households, etc. Yes, to the extent that the main issues in these two years are progressing smoothly, we must see and implement the scope for renegotiation of these tough measures." And that's what we did. Quite simply, that is what we have done. We were from the outset and knew from the outset that these measures were inappropriate, they were not structural measures. So on this line we have consistently fought and today we are canceling on this historic day the measure of cutting the personal pensions gap, which will feel in their pockets hundreds of thousands of pensioners. I continue by saying that as we approached the end of this adventure and reached the end of the third memorandum, to see a little what you said, even serious forms of yours - in the broad sense - abstract. On Thursday 13 September 2018, “KATHMERINI”: “Freno Junker in Athens for pensions”. Under the terms of the Agreement, ‘the agreed measures must be implemented. The government is optimistic.' On Thursday 13 September 2018, in the newspaper "TA NEWS": "A million hostages of games between Athens and Brussels. Scottish shower to retired people. Trues and myths for the dignified cuts. What's under negotiation in the background and what's not. How final decisions will be a barometer for the polls." Remember that. On Saturday, September 15, 2018, in “KATHMERINA”: “Retire game. The RES has transmitted an agreement which has been disproved by the Commission and government sources." On Wednesday 19 September 2018: “The Fund will insist on tomorrow's Euroworking Group implementing the cuts that have been voted on. At the extremes of the IMF for pensions. A new round of compulsion this time and with the tax-free in the first shot. Reports by Ahtsoglou and Petropoulos on the major delays in the granting of pensions." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On Tuesday 2 October 2018: “News” decode the draft budget. A pension cut, with a lot of asterisks. On Monday 12 November 2018: ‘ Berlin spoke. Overthrow to the Tsipra plan after the meeting with Schultz. Only low pensions are saved.’ What exactly do you have to say about all this, ladies and gentlemen? In order to understand, what exactly do you have to say about everything you were talking about, about what you predicted and about what your main feeders, your main supporters, made them headlines? And I'm talking about the serious ones to the "Marinists" for everyone! Let me just say two more things, if you'll excuse me. You know what outraged Mr. Hatzidakis? It is not about seeing the Minutes - I will testify for the Minutes - that you see the video of that day, to understand, because the language of the body, as some colleagues here know very well, says much more than what is said. So you know what angered Mr. Hatzidakis? He said Mr Moskovisi: "Greece will be a normal country. That's not a propaganda. It's true. As for the other countries, it will also apply to Greece and is therefore not a fourth Memorandum.' It goes on to say that 'the European Commission is making proposals'. And he also says: "When I was young, you know, we learned ancient Greek and Latin in French high school. I have made ancient Greek..." - etc. “...and it is something that shaped me in my spirit and mentality. Pacta sunt servanda. It is a corresponding expression in Latin and it means that the agreements must be complied with. This means 'Pacta sunt servanda'. But that is a multitude. Greece is a normal country in the euro area. We will examine its budget, as we examine each country's budget and along with Euclid, we will see how the preliminary draft budget respects Greece's commitments. This is what each country does."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Mada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u415	This has angered Mr. Hatzidakis and it is good to see all of us together in a nice spotlight, at that very moment. I'll say one last thing. Today, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understood who is giving a line to the New Democracy. Anyone who reads or sees the video - because this is more nice - Mr Georgiadis in relation to this misery - because of the misery, cynicism and provocativeness that has been said in this Chamber - about the fact that the government has exchanged the non-cutting of the personal difference in pensions with the sale of Macedonian or Macedonia, or whatever you want, then he will understand who, unfortunately, is guided and has the upper hand in this fact, which has a historic path in the area of conservativeism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u416	Please finish, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u417	I shall conclude, Madam President. And that is a downfall, ladies and gentlemen - I am addressing, above all, the Members of the Officerial Representation - to guide you by Mr Georgiadis, by the extreme right of the rhetoric and by this disastrous policy, which he has unfortunately imposed on the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u419	How many more speakers are there, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u420	It's six more. There's not many of them. Now we will give the floor to Mrs Papanatsiou, Minister of Finance for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I would like a little more time, because there is no other than the Ministry of Finance. I won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, today has a special symbolism: the country's exit from the memoranda. And what we have been stressing for some time now is that we now have the possibility of deciding on our own policies, which we want to follow, is a practical one. Parliament votes to cancel pension cuts, a measure imposed extortionally on our country in 2017 by the International Monetary Fund to close the second assessment. What did the International Monetary Fund say then? That Greece will not be able to catch its goals, that ECA will not manage to have a surplus. The fund has been denied at all, as most of what it has said since the beginning of the Greek crisis has happened. The economy spends this year in the third consecutive year with a surplus in the state budget. Already the figures we have at the moment, from January to October 2018, show that the primary surplus of the general government is EUR 6.68 billion, more than 500 million from the corresponding period of last year. The ETUC is also a surplus, which is also supported by the reduction of unemployment. However, the negative scenarios for the Greek economy did not only support the International Monetary Fund in 2017. A number of domestic speakers have invested in destruction. We were told at first that we would not be able to get out of the programme, then that the cut would come, then that we would not avoid pension cuts, at the same time that they did not seem to support, in particular, the government's effort to do this. On the contrary, yes. I would also like to mention, as the previous speakers have said, Mr Hatzidakis. It is difficult to forget the abhorrence of Mr Hatzidakis, here in the House, when, by addressing Commissioner Moscovisi, obviously annoyed with his optimism - as he described before the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA - for the Greek economy, the Vice-President of the New Democracy asked him what will finally be done with the pensions, supposedly to prepare the New Democracy for its programme. From the very style of the question it seemed that the optimistic climate, which existed from the side of the Europeans and the European Officer, was likely to spoil the micro-party plans of the New Democracy. Officers of the Anti-Population Officers, when they were being asked questions to the media about whether they would try not to apply pension cuts, their line was that unfortunately no, we cannot overcome the situation. The reality is cuts, let's accept it. That seems to be our difference. We take advantage of the positive juncture in which the country and the financial area are located, which we have managed to create, in order to return the benefit to him. And just these positive performances, the reality, were the basic tool used in battle, so that pensions would not be cut. On the other hand, New Democracy simply accepts the situation or is simply drafted with the philosophy of the International Monetary Fund and extreme neoliberalism. When, for example, social security is envisioned in private interests, then it makes sense that the public system passes to a second degree. Just a few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis said that "young people in the country often choose to work without insurance". We don't have to make any comment. He also referred to the Prime Minister's speech. I would like to refer to a number of issues, such as the sensitivity of Mrs Arabaji for the inconsistency of subsidies. Since when are the subsidies granted? Didn't it last year and we don't know? Why haven't you made them miserable all these years? Why are you asking us right now? Now did you remember? As far as our taxation is concerned, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has introduced duty-free on subsidies under the second pillar and up to 12,000 for 'practice' and associated companies. We reintroduced duty-free income to farmers, which you abolished in 2013 and abolished for cooperative farmers the trade fee that you imposed. I shall refer to some of the issues raised by the Ministry of Finance in this bill. I have already been mentioned several times in both committees, which deal in particular with people with disabilities. Firstly, the VAT rate is transferred from 13% to over-reduced rate of 6% for electronic spades and typewriters, and secondly, we streamline the existing framework, from which a wheelchair can be purchased, without a registration fee, by correcting certain distortions that existed. Here is also for wheelchairs and for laundry vehicles, generally where there is imperfection. We don't leave it in the future. It has been mentioned by Mr Amyras that we left it in general for cars. We are more generally working on tax matters for small and mediumsized enterprises. You'll see them next time. Be patient. From there on, I would like to refer to Mr Katsiki's amendment. It's in the positive direction. It's something we're working on at the Treasury, something similar, but not horizontally. We see it with some income criteria. Today's draft law even contained other important regulations worth mentioning. For the first time, the institutional framework for the submission of separate tax declarations for married couples and those under a cohabitation agreement is established. There's a limit on bureaucracy. We have the modernisation of the administration, as it enables the citizen to settle tax obligations electronically, such as the tax on donation, some of the fines for building, car, etc., without having to visit and enter into a process which also involves the administration. Electronically from his computer he can regulate them. We also facilitate the procedures for the transfer of real estate, as we give the possibility, in cases where a housekeeper, together with a contractor, sells a property, the obligation to provide tax information for the contractor and not for the landlord, who has been to date. We are taking another step towards dealing with the smuggling of fuels, as we are introducing electronic sealing as compulsory for fuels, so that the administration can monitor fuel traffic more effectively and identify phenomena of circumvention of the law. This regulation, of course, is designed to supplement a number of other measures which we have taken in recent years in order to combat the smuggling of fuels and tax evasion. First, a Ministerial Decision was adopted by which undertakings active in the trading of fuels through stations are obliged to transmit electronically the data from their sales documents using a cash-pool machine, including the quantities of fuel they sell. The cross-checking of data is, of course, very important for the tax authority to detect cases of tax evasion or smuggling. Secondly, we have adopted a decision setting out an electronic signal reception centre, commonly GPS, to monitor tankers. The data from the system will be sent to the Special Secretariat of the IORP, as well as other services with control responsibilities, which will process them and take such actions where necessary. That's already on pilot run. This is a very important step towards full control of fuel traffic and tackling smuggling and tax evasion. With this draft law, we give a specific provision a tax incentive to investment, as we introduce an exemption from the tax to the capital injection for cash-in-increasing operations exclusively in terms of expenditure on scientific and technological research, a measure that is purely developmental. We also grant a number of state property, a former state court of peace that has remained vacant, the municipalities that are supporting local societies, social and cultural development and some such property are also granted to the Ministry of Civil Protection, with the aim of reducing the public's operating costs. I cannot, of course, go into a number of important amendments which have been tabled today in this House and which do two other commitments by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. This is, of course, the measure of subsidising the monthly insurance contributions of young people up to 25, which will now become law, but also the guarantee of three thousand two hundred and fifty-seven permanent posts in the 'Help at Home' programme, as well as the abolition of excise duty on wine with an amendment that we brought as the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition rather than supporting all these positive speeches, which it is voting on in Parliament one by one, speaks of impulse. Really, what's all this impulse? What of all that is currently being legislated should not be done? The subsidisation of young people's contributions? Is the strengthening of the "House Help" programme? What about the reduction of HISBIA? Or is it an excuse to distribute the social dividend and the heating allowance? Aren't these all measures which relieve the world, which take away burdens which loaded up the period of the memorials, while at the same time boosting the economy and improving the economic climate? The truth is that Opposition calls all that impulse because it does not want anything positive to go to society, because it even bets today in the record of destruction. We have many days before us to discuss all this in greater detail at the forthcoming plenary session on the budget. We are simply continuing to implement a policy aimed at leaving the period of the memoranda behind and towards a development that will be built on the needs of the majority. Incrementally, but steady, we are moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u422	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr. Papaliou. Here are Mr. Yoyakas and Mrs. Aylonitou. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u423	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill and, in particular, to Article 1 on the abolition of the provisions on pension cuts, I will begin with two comments on the position of the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and PASOK. The rapporteur of the New Democracy said that the measure of the pension cut was not included in the agreement that the New Democracy - PASOK government was going to conclude with the troika in 2014. But gentlemen of Officership, the measure to reduce pensions is included in your programme. We remember the reports by New Democracy officials on the blessing of the memorials, which 'if they were not there, we had to invent them'. As is also the case in our ears, the second Vice-President of Officers: "Do not go ahead with a reduction in pensions, because our programme is based on it", that is to say, the reduction in pensions. This was heard after Pierre Moscovisi's speech in Parliament, when he referred to the possibility of not reducing pensions due to improved economic data. And PASOK's rapporteur said that the present article does not remove the cuts in the period of crisis in which the New Democracy and the PASOK ruled. However, he failed to say who decided and implemented the pension cuts at that time, the EUR 45 billion and the thirteen-fold reduction in pensions, and yet who previously led the country to bankruptcy. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, in particular Article 1, is added to a series of bills and amendments which have been passed or voted on by Parliament and which, on the one hand, mark the end of the memorandums, i.e. the exit of the country from the memorandum of austerity policies and, on the other, characterise and specialize the progressive direction of SYRIZA's policy after leaving the memorandums, a direction that is far from the policy of the New Democracy, which - if it does not overshadow - the policy of the memoranda. And that is because your policy, gentlemen, of Officerial Response, is the memorials. Before the 2016 Insurance Reform through Law4387, the insurance system was an anarchist, fragmented, irresponsible, ineffective and therefore unsustainable and socially unfair. Pineapples and horns, uncooked. This situation, in addition to the unequal treatment of the insured, and despite the many cuts, resulted in deficits of more than EUR 1 million and four hundred thousand unpaid pensions. The insurance reform has developed all the insurance funds into a single insurance institution, EVA. It established uniform rules for the insurance of all old and new retired persons in the private and public sectors, regardless of their professional activity and type of employment relationship. It has linked the level of insurance contributions to income and introduced the national pension for all as a redistribution tool for the weaker social groups, which guarantees a minimum amount of pension that is not dependent on the payment of contributions and the amount of remuneration or income. In the context of the principles of social and social justice, the new method of calculating pensions was foreseen not only for young people but also for old insured persons. At the same time, on the basis of the principle of legitimate expectations of insured persons, the amount of pensions paid on 31-12-2014 was ensured by providing the so-called personal difference. The need to complete the second assessment and to create a stable economic environment led to the resolution of No 4472/2017 by which personal differences were reduced, a measure of undevelopmental and social unfairness. However, since then economic data have changed significantly. The country, having achieved the budget targets set, has come out of the memorandums. It can formulate its own autonomous policy and achieve the objectives of the coming years, for which it has committed itself, without the reduction of the pensions, by reducing the personal difference. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important step towards lifting injustices and restoring new balances in the period after the country's exit from the memoranda. I conclude by adding that, in the context of the positive measures that are being voted on today, there are also specific amendments such as the 'Help at Home' programme which makes this a permanent institution of the social state. The programme shall be guaranteed through the establishment of permanent and stable positions by the municipalities and its full funding. For already workers at "Help at Home" there is a special moleculosis due to accumulated experience, personal relationship with the untreated, but also to the fact that they have been offering work for years to cover fixed and constant needs. This ends the work hostage and the insecurity of workers in "Help at Home". The second important amendment is the abolition of excise duty on wine imposed by creditors. He was unfair, he had no results and created huge problems for producers and wineries. Finally, the amendment to cover from the state budget employers' contributions for the main pension of employees up to twenty-five years. In this way work is being strengthened and at the same time balance is being made between increasing the minimum wage for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to make one final comment. Speaking to the Deputy Minister of Finance, I would say that the modal regulation on the incompatibility of agricultural subsidies for Zakynthos farmers could, Minister, be extended to farmers throughout the country especially when farmers, such as my constituency, Arcadia, are facing great problems and have suffered enormous damage from the natural disasters that are the result of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, too. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor. And I ask that Mrs. Alonitou be prepared, who will speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u425	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the government, in the first article of the bill, made a double-crossed douche bag. It is a word that she herself established in the international political vocabulary. The first is of course the cancellation of cuts which she had voted for. Colleagues of the government majority told the committees and not much that 'the International Monetary Fund forced us to make cuts to close the assessment and that we can now abolish them'. A similar argument had been used by the Prime Minister in this Chamber when we discussed the measures of the Multifibre Arrangement in May 2017. "The measures we have agreed required the International Monetary Fund. It is clear that it was not our choice for this mixture of policies," said Mr Tsipras at the time. As in then, the representatives of the co-government are now saying things as they suit them. Because the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that when that assessment was started somewhere in the middle of 2016 and resulted in new tough measures, neither the reduction of tax-free allowances nor the reduction of pensions were present at the table. As the government had been discussing for months, instead of ruling, the economy went much worse. Thus the institutions took not only what was foreseen in the original package but also additional measures. Amongst these are the additional reduction in pensions. You caused these cuts. Why you chose to run a negotiation to close in May 2017 a deal worse than the one you could have booked until autumn 2016. That's all to remember what happened. But, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of cuts has budgetary costs. And here comes the second piece of shit, because this cost, as we will discuss in the next few days on the budget, has an impact on the various measures that the government has announced with so much satisfaction: The reduction in the participation in medicines for insured persons, the OAED's employment programme for thirty thousand unemployed, the creation of jobs in nursery schools for parents of up to four years old. As the free school meals are singing, but also the grant of contributions to the young people insured up to 25 years old, which the Prime Minister had announced at the Thessaloniki International Fair, would be for all insurance contributions. But even this cancellation of the cuts of the different personal differences or of the family benefits and the wife's allowance does not change the great picture, which is one: that from 2019, insured persons who leave work will see reductions that are on average 12% to 16% and will reach 30%, mainly those who have over thirty years of insurance and will have paid high insurance contributions according to the remuneration or insurance category they belong to. It does not change the haircut in the new supplementary pensions for applications from 2015 onwards, it does not change the reductions in the one-off base because of the new calculation base or the pension freeze up to 2021 at least, all that was voted together with the cuts in personal differences, what the government today cancels. Nor does it, of course, change all the other reductions and all the burdens brought by the SYRIZA Co-Currency - ANEL in the last three years, from the imposition and increase of health contributions and the abolition of the threshold of the minimum pension up to the new calculation of supplementary pensions and pension cuts for pensioners with a main and supplementary pension of EUR 1.300 mixed, from the 44% reduction in the average of supplementary pensions and one-off pensions by at least 20% until the end of the NSA in 2020 and from the antisocial changes in the widow's pensions to the reduction of the national pension for disability pensions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the big picture and that does not change. What is definitely changing is a law, the Katrugalou law, which you have become in a form with many injustices, the looting of the insured and a fiscal bomb for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u426	Thank you. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is about abolishing pension cuts and incorporating a European directive into Greek legislation on the movement of insurance products. I will not deal with Part Two, the transposition of the directive into Greek legislation and its codification. I think it is very good to introduce a single legislative framework that brings together the rules on the movement and mediation of insurance products. Of course I will deal with the first issue, the abolition of pension cuts, the issue of the day at issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I was in a television panel where, among the relief measures taken by the government for 2019 and also for 2018, we do not forget this - the retrospectives of the directors, university, doctors, judges and others, the social dividend for a third consecutive year, thanks to which they will take a breath for their Christmas table of a million four hundred households, but also the extensions of the sectoral contracts to ten different professional groups, which immediately get an increase in their wages of two hundred thousand workers, so I dared mention the 'early cow', that the law on the abolition of the pension cut is coming. What was I supposed to mention? The spokesman of the New Democracy flew a temperately, angry to tell me: 'You haven't brought it yet'. And I said: 'Soon, ladies and gentlemen, do it! As a endurance athlete, I have to advise you: Keep your strengths, take some sedatives, because by the elections in October 2019 the distance is supermarathon and you will stay from fuel." Well, of course Mr. Moscovisi didn't convince you, because Mr. Moscovisi is a symphony. Didn't Mr. Juncker convince you? Didn't Mr. Sentino convince you? Didn't the German Minister for Finance convince you, Mr. Olaf Soltz? Didn't all of them convince you? Did the IMF itself not convince you that the pension cut is not a structural measure? Indeed, it is not a structural measure, and in any case the objectives are taken into account. Who? The IMF, which the IMF itself requested, demanded it, demanded it itself, in order to close the assessment. Where were you, ladies and gentlemen? You were the 'Keroon Pavilion, Shoeble Pavage!'. That's where you were. Did it not convince you that Greece was in the countries where it was measured, weighed and adored without a reference note? Does it bother you that the international press says that Greece, although largely the weakest part of the Eurozone, has but doubled the rate of growth and is the only optimistic message of forecasts for the last quarter of the European Union? [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Does it bother you that the financial staff were able not only to get the people out of the memorials that you, gentlemen of Anti-Population, but to start dismantling and dignified Memorandum Laws? This is proof of the clean exit from the memorials! Because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalotos looks at the real facts and tries to achieve his goal with the least possible consequences for the many, while Mr Stagiras looks at adapting the facts to the propaganda of his party, i.e. he looks at adapting the wishes of the New Democracy and some economic elite and presenting them as a reality of society. Of course we all want lower taxes and, as far as possible and the development of the Greek economy, this will be done. But you don't want this. Put the cheese on the face of the face and supposedly care for everyone in order to substantially alleviate your few rich friends and exploit the people then, because you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK are the ones who created the working conditions of the gala. You're the one who's reduced the minimum wage of 22% and it's your creation, the disgraceful underpaid wage who wants to take advantage of the entire juvenile colony. You are the ones who want to take advantage of the money from the workers' insurance contributions that we have set up again to increase the profits of private companies, which, if they go bankrupt, is a pity! Let those who trusted them be careful. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the size of your hypocrisy! You, supposedly, care about the Memorandum of Tax Reduction Act from 2020, which will be charged with the weakest strata you, the protectors of the poor and the weak! First of all, do not rush, because in the right time we will abolish this too. But you, because you are tired, since already within your programme included a reduction in duty, a abolition of duty-free... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll finish. I've been waiting here since this morning. I'm sorry, I mean. So you are being cut when you have in your programme the abolition of tax to broaden the tax base, as the IMF has already requested. It would, of course, make it easier for SYRIZA to do so by the memorials, so that your real program does not appear, which, in order to be implemented, wants the Greek people to be permanently located. Ladies and gentlemen of Officership, that's over! Take the hampari, what you were going to do could have some success while we were inside the memorials. You don't make it and you've lost it. It's all right, 'cause society won. This government has put the country from the memoranda, and now it can slowly implement its own left-wing policy, which concerns many, most of the society. No more crying, then. If you care about society, come to vote for everything, but all the measures of the Tsipra government! Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, too. Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the urgency procedure a bill dominating Article 1 on the cancellation of the pension cut from 1-1-2019. However, one is the determination. So the government is coming today to correct its own mistakes, its own choices. For your choice, ladies and gentlemen, was the reduction in pensions, as was the recalculation of all old pensions and the maintenance of the reduction as a personal difference. Your choice was to cut the personal difference with Law 4472/2017 and Law 4459/2018. The first time we pointed out it was an unnecessary measure. We stressed the problems and injustices of the Katrugalo Law. We have heard the bodies set out to give concrete examples of the injustices suffered by pensioners because of the Katrugalos law. I would remind you that we, the Democratic Independence, did not vote for the cuts proposed by the government and tabled a proposal for a law on the non-repair of pensions. In fact, our proposal had been invoiced by the General Accounting Office of the State since July 13th. However, you have never brought her to a debate. What are you doing today? You come and copy the first part of our proposal. You come and adopt our own proposals. This, of course, gives us pleasure. What remains now is for the government to adopt and the rest of our proposal for the abolition, of course, of the Katrugalos Law, in order to save both new pensions granted reduced since 2016 and the widow's pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must not and cannot celebrate today the cancellation of a measure which it itself has chosen, and even when the cuts remain for young people, for the new generation that took its teams and left abroad for work, for the new generation that is not on the way back today. I now come to the second part of the bill, to the provisions on the transposition of the directive. The regulations are, firstly, a positive development which ensures the Ombudsman and the final consumer, because it enables the consumer to have a better picture of insurance products and, of course, to increase transparency in this market. Here the only thing, Mr Ministers, I would say as a negative one is that he should have come to a vote on September 30, 2018. There is therefore a directive that is late for vote and you are even giving it retroactive effect to the law, which is causing problems, because the provisions are due on 30 September and no time for adjustment is given. I would remind you that the institutions have proposed many improvements which, Minister, I believe you will consider. I'm coming to Part Three. The third part of the bill contains a number of tax arrangements, other than those which settle unfinished matters and others seriously leave questions. Let me refer in particular to Article 57, which provides for the mass opening of accounts by the AIA. We are waiting here, Minister, to determine what the mass opening consists of, which concerns and under which conditions. And I come to the amendments. The Democratic Union has tabled an amendment to eighteen articles containing the proposal for a law that we have tabled, such as provisions for the reduction of insurance contributions, such as the three-year income tax exemption and pension contributions for young professionals, such as the abolition of the injustices in widow’s pensions, such as the reduction of the tax rate in businesses from 29% to 20%, such as the abolition of the trade tax and the special solidarity levy, such as facilitating pensioning with insurance funds, such as the introduction of a uniform tax rate for farmers and the tax exemption for agricultural aid, such as the minimum guaranteed income for the individual pensioner at EUR 500 and for the couple at EUR 700, such as the pensions of AIFs, such as the reinstatement of the reduced VAT on the islands. Mr President, our amendment contains arrangements that restore injustices and correct your own mistakes and we ask you to accept it. We have also tabled an amendment to introduce the special irresponsible account of professionals and farmers, as well as the possibility of adjusting public debt, insurance funds and municipalities with a hundred and twenty instalments. The amendment also provides for an extension of the protection of first homes in auctions through the Katseli Act for one year. Mr President-in-Office, these arrangements can give professionals and households a breath and we ask you to accept them. Finally, we have tabled an amendment that facilitates the life of AMEs, an amendment concerning the extension of the reduced VAT and which provides for the bill on white clubs and Braille devices and all the accessories they use for their education and daily service. I expect to see your sensitivity and accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, differences focus on the stability of positions and the consistency of words and actions. We, as Democratic Participation and as PASOK, built the social state and ensured a sustainable insurance system with respect for the solidarity of generations and the dignity of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said from this Step forward that any legislation that restores injustices that you have cultivated, for us, is ratification and confirmation of the policy that we have followed over the years as PASOK governments. The PASOK that built and built the social state. A social state that today, as our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, always says, must and must be rebuilt for the dignity of the new generation, the retired, the worker, the disabled, with respect for the citizen and society. In this direction we are voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, too. The list of speakers has been completed here. I would like to ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers if they want and who want a second language. You all wish to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u431	First of all, we have not been placed on the amendments. We cannot go directly to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u432	Of course, when you want to take the floor. First of all, please tell me that you want to put yourself on the amendments. We'll give a total of five minutes. Mr Mikopoulou, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, I shall speak for very little. I shall be brief enough, because I understand the tiredness that has come from today's long debate. However, I think that the provisions concerning the non-repayability of pensions and the choices we make about the 'Help at Home' programme, on the grant of social security contributions for young people up to twenty-five years old, the last option to abolish the tax on wine symbolize the passage from a period of suffocating budgetary line to a time when we have now recovered - and this is visible - part of our budgetary sovereignty. With regard to the two other parts of the bill, I think they have a similar value and choices do not have budgetary costs, but create favourable conditions for citizens' choices and transactions with the public administration. With these considerations, and quite briefly enough, I think that, in the fundamental today's choices from today's bill, there can be no good reason for disagreement. I urge the House again to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, too. Mr Vlachos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u435	Thank you very much, Mr President. At a very long meeting - indeed this day is joyous and I see that it cannot be over - where we are discussing about twelve hours and what we have to say, Mr President, is that there are a number of amendments which are almost all too late, and we are not given the opportunity to work out them more appropriately. I shall now stand by some of them, since before I say a comment on what was heard by the Minister and by some majority rapporteurs who insist on this impulse. It is annoyed by the word 'excavationality'. Finally, the more you insist and the more these amendments come and the more these arrangements come in the order and the pace they come, the more you will be entitled to us. Do you not understand that it is a pretext, that it is an attempt to intervene in political matters, particularly in the election climate, with all this behaviour? When amendments were made to the seven hours, after the sitting had begun today, sixty pages on the topics that no one can clarify, look for and take a clear position either in favour or against, I will say, and here is the difficulty, if only we could say 'no', but you are in danger of wrongdoing people. On the other hand, if you say 'yes', you risk finding yourself involved in some arrangements that you didn't know about. That's the serious thing. That is why we have asked, Mr President - the President-in-Office at that time - for these amendments to be withdrawn. It's not just that they're late. The Minister said - and that is all I would say, because time is pressing - that many workers, Mr Mitsotakis, have said, prefer uninsured work. You didn't understand it well or you don't want to understand it, because we collect from many young children the dilemma: “What do you want me to secure you? Can I give you something more?' That is what is happening in practice and don't do that you don't understand. This dilemma is addressed by the young people who ask: “And why should I be insured? Am I going to retire?" So he takes some more cash, which today is very much in need, and he mortgages his future. To this new child, we must today answer that, yes, he will be retired. This is the concern of the New Democracy, which seeks other ways of becoming convincing, because what you, obviously, are not convinced and rightly not convinced. When we tell children today, Minister, they have to pay for the pensioners' pensions today, I don't know if we're moving them. And we're asking to retire a generation, my generation, my generation, which - to tell you directly - had fun. What else do we want from our children? Should we trust them both their future or give them a little bit of hope and joy? That's our agony. The rest, the titles, whose plan, the names and the rest, I fear that they are nothing, are invented. What will remain at the end of this debate is our children being given a guarantee for the next day, for their future, and I think that we can all be charged with enough good faith. I come to the amendments. Mr President, we do not want to hear this amendment in general terms, Mr President, and we do not want to hear it. We're not involved in the conversation. We cannot legitimise this process with our participation. All right, there are late amendments, there is a concession somewhere, this cannot be done. We're not participating. I come to the famous wine amendment. Now look at the wine, all my colleagues have also celebrated on this. Listen, the tabling of the amendment on taxation in wine does not turn us where we were before. The wineries have been damaged and the market in wine has mainly been altered. Don't do it again that you don't understand. Like the law today, because we're removing cuts, what does it mean? That we're going back to where we were before the law? Of course not. We're removing something. That's positive. Positive is that today the tax on wine is being abolished, but the people involved in wine and wine have to deal with problems. We have influenced them, built warehouses and, above all, - let us not hide it - a process has been invented, wine sold and moved in other ways. Let's not say more. That's the point. How are we gonna break this today? Because the tax was abolished? When we willingly or unwittingly led these people to seek other roads, other sales platforms of wine? That's the point. And finally, because you today show a superiority that you abolished it, because you promised. No, there's justice from the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u436	The S.T.E. He offended the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u437	Okay, I'm sorry, but don't look at you coming all of a sudden and you thought about it. I would like to say that it is a series of reactions and interventions that lead to it, which you are coming back to the end of the year in the logic of impulseology, because it has to do with the way it is. It is about the way you are giving something to both the political destiny and, of course, the fragmentation of certain arrangements. I would also like to say, Mr President, that we will say a little more in detail on Amendment 1850 - we will say 'no'. We shall vote on Amendment No 1849 tabled by Mr Mandash. We shall be saying 'no' to Amendment No 1848, anyway it has become 1850. We will say 'yes' to the regulation on dental clubs, this extension and, of course, we will say 'yes' to Amendment No 1846, after we clarify that there is disagreement with paragraph 3, 4, 5, and 6 of this amendment. I close, reminding myself - because I see some embarrassment or some reactions - for the famous Amendment 1852. When, Madam Secretary, the Minister itself comes at the same time as she brings the amendment, they share legislative improvements and retire paragraphs that are within her competence, then you understand how reluctant this whole text has come! Do I need to comment more on it? I would say that you should have the political sensitivity after our reactions to this particular amendment take it back and bring it back another time, in a better way, more substantiated and more convincing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u438	Thank you too, Mr. Vlacho. The special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, you saw that we attended the parties' rapporteurs, with the patience of a theatrical performance which lasted no more than three hours here at noon, and a confrontation between Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, who did not give the opportunity to the Members who had spoken to speak and to highlight various aspects of this bill. Therefore, my position will try to catch some of the issues that have not been raised. I would first like to point out that the central aim of this at noon was to give up. They all referred to PASOK. Mr Tsipras, Mr President, took the view that the generalisation of the officials who left PASOK was a step forward because, as he said, they were not expressed by the failed leaders and they went to SYRIZA to become MPs and ministers. Mr. Tsipras has forgotten that in politics the swimming pool of Siloam does not work, that they are responsible for what Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos are the ones who supported the leaderships and voted in their two hands. They had voted two and voted two more with SYRIZA, that is, four. But what is frustrating is the fact that these beards, Mr. Tsipras, sanctified and those who leave SYRIZA and go somewhere else, he says remains. I mean, cynicism and machivery all over their majesty! And we have come to this afternoon's show to live this day in vain and unprecedented. The six slander of all PASOK leaders, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos, who has slandered Andreas Papandreou as leader of "17 November", Kostas Simitis who put Greece into EMU, and George Papandreou who fought in order not to bankrupt the country, defend patriotic PASOK. This and many other things we have seen and owed as a representative of the area that I have been consistently and firmly in the difficult and easy to support, because this area, Mr President, you know that very well, has a huge offer with thousands of executives, hundreds who have passed through here, ministers, trade unions and self-government officials, and we do not agree to smash them into power for the sake of lies. The ministers, I would say, who went through the Step with decency - I cannot describe their word as inappropriate - such as Mrs Ahtsioglou, tried to tell us that we are all the same. It says, on average, we give the same pensions. It was of course almost enough to charge us earlier on the fact that we were paying excessive pensions and that it was a deficit, which is why they had to make cuts and increase contributions, so that the balance can come to an end. If so, Minister, can we all be the same, from where do the 3 billion-dollar differences in the General Accounting Report, which you have in front of you, come from, that the cuts are costing just one year, in 2019, and that, as I said in my place, is about EUR 2.250 for every pensioner? These cuts continue in young people as well and I have given you the examples of the civil servant with thirty-five years of less pensioning than EUR 330, the private worker with eleven thousand five hundred badges with EUR 438 and the widow, this crime you committed, where from EUR 1 079 will get EUR 624, i.e. EUR 455 less. So we're not all the same. You've made cuts consciously and under the wrath of the world you get them back. But the abortion you serve, that hairs pension to old, transitional and youth, you don't change it. And if you don't change it, you'll find yourself in front of you constantly new problems. In the course of the debate, a few amendments have been tabled which are worth commenting on. Mr Arachovitis supported the amendment to abolish the excise duty on wine and told us that they were also blackmailed and had a choice between the tax on private education and the tax on production. They taxed as much as the raw material is worth, unless they don't know how much raw material is worth, production, and they're abolishing it now. The small brewery tax didn't tell us anything. The focus didn't tell us anything. Mrs Papanatsiou has brought an amendment of sixty pages. And of course, we will not even vote for it to be right, because we do not have time to decode it. I have been asking Mrs Papanatsiou for six months: what about the six thousand who she told the House that it was the outstanding cases of financial controls and risking to be filed? Is that what he's trying to cure with the amendment? How many have been dropped? Who's this about? What kind of taxable stuff do they have? Are those complaints? Are they budget overruns? What exactly is it? I also wanted to say that if the government had studied this amendment in detail, it includes all in eighteen articles, it would have made good legislative arrangements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here, in my view, we have a positive regulation on the insurance premium for young people up to twenty-five years old, but it is a lack of regulation, because it is not about new jobs. We have proposed discharge five years. It brings us a positive arrangement here, which has to do with the 'Help at Home' programme. Read our proposal. The service goes to the municipalities, but does not solve the problem of servants today in a way that would ensure them, that is, with personal positions. However, we consider it right and will vote on it. A majority colleague was mentioned earlier in Mr Kontonis's parliamentary amendment on the incompatibility of agricultural subsidies. He said that this must be done all over Greece. Yeah, it's got to be done. For today, there is the long hand of the tax collector, electronically, in the bank accounts of all and, above all, farmers who receive agricultural subsidies. What matters, however, is that Mrs Papanatsiou who knows the issues, in her rhetoric previously told us that the subsidies we taxed them and that they restricted taxation. Mrs Papanatsiou is lying because she knows very well that Law 4171 says that, especially for farmers, the income is determined by the practice of farmers', farmers', logging, forestry. He doesn't say any subsidies. The subsidies were added by the SYRIZA Government by Article 72 of Law No.4330. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Hey, say it once true. So big a divorce have you taken with the truth, Mr. Ministers? Say one truth. You say you've taxed them, that you've made a mistake, and you're going to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u440	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u441	What to do, Mr President! A book of amendments we have been trying to read since we entered this Chamber. I make a few comments, as you have seen. I'm not talking about the whole thing. Also, our proposal for MEDIs, why don't you accept it, Ministers? What do we say about LEADER? We say what facilitates their everyday life, their education, to get rid of VAT or to go to the lowest rate. The setting for the clubs and Braille devices will vote for it, but it is missing. That's not good enough. Of course, we have tabled a number of amendments, as I said earlier, which you have to deal with. Have you seen where the temperature has reached the mountainous Greece, Mr. Ministers? Did you see it snow? So, the Skourlet regulation that would give the 15 million additives to the mountainous regions will you implement it? Will you accept our proposal to restore the amount of heating oil before the cutback made by your Government? Are you going to resolve these issues, or are you going to wait after the election?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u442	Please, Mr. Kutsuko, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u443	I'm done. I shall therefore vote in favour of any of the amendments which are positive, even those which are not. Obviously, I would like to repeat what I said outliningly, that we will be very happy to vote on the proposal for a law that we have tabled on the non-repayance of pensions. We are pleased that the government will vote out its own. We invite her to implement the rest of our proposals to change this monstrous feat called the Karugalou law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, too. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr President. I will start from the following: the government has secured some money through anti-development over-taxation and has recently made a cressette of benefits. This is, of course, entirely in line with the Lennist practice followed by the Prime Minister: one step forward, two steps back. Only this step was a leap, a cubism, and so SYRIZA was transformed by an anti-monotic party, like ANELs in a predominant memorial. Mr President, it is well known that the tactical neoliberal politicians and neo-bolsheviks are saying that they are patriotic formations, that they are patriotic parties. This is happening in our country with SYRIZA, the ANEL and the New Democracy. It is this mantle through which they denounce nationalism as a dome of nationalism, characterizing the ideology of nationalism as a chauvinistic ideology and thus harm home, patriotism itself. How, then, can Mr. Tsipras claim that SYRIZA is a patriotic party when it has assigned national sovereignty? So does the New Democracy. So, manifestly, the only party that is patriotic is the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn in our country. I would like to say that this money, which has been found through overtaxation, has led to impoverishment of the Greek people. So it was created by the technique of stealing the income of a batzet, and I would say that, with the result that the government is making these kinds of benefits, looking forward to misleading the Greek people once again. But the Greek people know that SYRIZA is not a patriotic party, they must not invoke neither the Prime Minister nor patriotism for the political actions he has taken. He does not recognise a maritime border in our country, this has come about at least. But the New Democracy, which is basically through its libertarian approaches to political activities, is one of the government's own arables in one way or another. In other words, we consider that this conflict to be falsified and denounce it as an overlapping adjunct to the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Katsotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. By the elections, we will have many candidacy fights set up in the SYRIZA-ANEL and the New Democracy. It is a fact that you are making a great effort to hide your single strategy, which is to support this barbaric, rotten system. Because it prevents everyone from having a job, having decent wages and pensions, free health and education, having a stable daily programme, with free time for the people to have the life they deserve, it is precisely this system and of course their political staff who support it. You are trying to present yourself differently, but you are supporting insurance, for example, since this has been discussed today, which relieves employers of their participation, moreover, you also bring the amendment, which drastically restricts state funding, to give it only for the EUR 360, which is the guaranteed national pension. Enhance rewardability, notion hostile to a public, compulsory, universal, redistributive insurance system, which will ensure a decent living for the pensioners and modern benefits for the insured. One would justify your celebrations if you would give back something from what you cut out of your pensions. 50% of the pensioners' income you and the previous ones have cut. The fact that you are celebrating because you will not make another cut is beyond us, of course, as are pensioners who will answer you on 15 December with the pan-Hellenic rally. He'll be out here. The fact that the non-cutting of pensions once again is the end of the memoranda and that you are propagandaing it is aimed at preventing the claims of losses suffered by workers and pensioners, ensuring the stability, durability of measures that enhance competitiveness and profitability. The Minister in her position claimed that now that the risk of fiscal adjustment has been closed we are moving towards measures that we choose with relative economic freedom. It is certain that you choose not to give back the 45% reduction in pensions. You choose not to reinstate the EUR 751 minimum wage. You choose to activate the Brutsi Act that abolishes collective bargaining and the minimum wage will be decided by industrialists and other business groups. You choose not to reinstate collective agreements and today collective agreements have 10% of the employees in our country. They were extended there, as you said, but also to that percentage which was only extended to 10%, because that is the reality that you cannot hide it either. It is your choice, as you say, not to remove flexible forms of work, slave offices, contractors and all that abolishes the fixed daily working time, stable work with rights. It's your choice this insurance that only has, as we said, as a state guarantee is this hunger pension. Do you first - yes or no? - the five small funds operating under the capitalisation system? Your choice is to convert the insurance from social responsibility into an individual case. The Minister withdrew us because he says that the information we give on the amount of pensions is not correct. Madam Minister, was it the lowest pension of EUR 486? Yes or no? Your government with the circular of Haikalis went to 392? Yes or no? Today with the national pension, did it go with the 15 years to 345 euros? Yes or no? Was it for a low-retirementist's pension 446 plus 230 EKE 716 euros? Yes or no? Now is 346 plus 68 euros, which is the payroll, for one who has fifteen years to 600 euros of insurance pay of EUR 414? Is that so? You, Minister, what did you do with the replacement rate? From 70% to 80% did you get it up to 43% and 35 more? Yes or no? So we're lying? Is the way you've calculated that recompense throughout the life insurance is the same as in the last five years? Is that the same thing as the last two years or the last payroll? I mean, don't go crazy. The widow's pensions, that today you leave a very large part of those who had this misfortune in their lives without pension? Is it social policy when the widow's pension has been effectively cut and is it 50%? So all this is not a celebration, it is not an exit from the memorandum, but a memorandum of understanding, so that this objective of the capital for economic stability, for capitalist recovery and competitiveness and profitability of businesses can be achieved here. As far as the amendments are concerned, we shall see them, of course, in the vote. However, we are now saying that, as far as Amendment No 1852 is concerned, and a special 171 of the Ministry of Economy, we will abstain from the vote. It is a 30-five-page amendment and our parliamentary representative here denounced this practice. We will abstain from the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u448	Thank you. Mr Papachristopoulos, on behalf of the ANELs, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. I won't waste all my time. Perhaps in Marrakesh the sixty-four states there approved the world convention on immigration, but this was also a tangible proof that two worlds are colluding. On the one hand, money, profit, offshore, economic heavens and, on the other, societies. I want here to remind you that it's been forty years. Greece has a past, not established in 2015. Who prevented the two parties - to which I belonged, but did I not have a primary role - to do these nice things that come and recommend today? Who really prevented them? Three days ago the 'Wall Street Journal' - to speak with figures - about the only state in Europe that wrote biblicals was for Greece. I don't want to repeat it. But I'll just say two numbers. Mrs Ahtsoglou said so, I will repeat them: The negative measures taken by the country were EUR 6.5 billion from 2015 to 2018. You compared EUR 65 billion, the same negative measures, from 2010 to 2014. And the nomine! Leave it, that's paperwork and they're coming out. I believe, however, that the European Union - if you will excuse me the expression, I am a fanatical supporter of the European Union - has otherwise dreamed of it by Adenawer and De Gaulle and by Greek politicians. I don't want to discriminate now. They didn't dream of this thing Macronne didn't take. A bit late to realize that the social state is a significant lever for growth. The rebels reminded him of it. Whether or not the wolf is now on the bulb is happy and some people went to rob this uprising is another matter. I'm saying that, so we can get out front and not back. And I have been amazed by a manifesto of progressive Europeans with Picketty and fifty economists, historians and politicians who have seen what we all see there is a deficit in principle in the European Union. There is a problem with climate change. Some people question it, but there is. There is the great issue of immigration that we and the Italians live in. Poverty? There is. So they made a proposal, and it is no coincidence that the largest news agencies, the world's largest newspapers, such as the British 'Guardian', the French 'Le Monde', the German 'Spiegel' and the Italian 'Republica', raised it as the first topic. Tax the rich and look at society again! I repeat that a tangible example is what happened in France recently with McCron. I believe there will be corrective action. What is happening in Great Britain is not random and we all want it to come back to the European Union. Some sixty-eight signed and I think that's the right thing to do. To conclude, I would like to say this: Without blessing our beards, this government understood something that others have not understood. It's not that bill of charity. It's a matter of fact. This austerity can no longer continue. The social state is not charity to anyone. It's a pillar of development. And thankfully, this government has understood it and is fighting it from the first to the last minute. And tangible example is what was heard in today's bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u450	The next speaker is the special speaker from the river, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you are tempted! How do we do it? I'm always talking after you and you're giving me the opportunity to comment on some things. I will only say this: Welcome to the Wall Street Journal, the Guardian and the Spiegel. That's why you just go to Google and look at what your Chief, Mr. Kammenos, said in 2015, in 2016, in 2017. What conspiracy and what a fairy tale Mr. Kammenos said with his tweets and his words about these newspapers, you can't imagine! So by invoking these newspapers, you empty your Chief. And you're doing good for him. Only for permission is Mr. Kammenos. Nothing else. You're not taking him seriously. Let's go down. The protagonist, of course, today at this twelfth meeting was no more than pensions. The couch, however, is someone else. He's the worker who with his insurance contributions keeps the insurance system alive, the pension system. He's blooding it, and that's how retired people get their pensions. What position is the Greek worker currently in? Better position than three years ago, five years ago? Unfortunately, it's worse. You have created the generation of 380 euros you and do not make us rebels by withdrawing your decision to reduce pensions from 1-1-2019, a decision that you twice confirmed and you come to triumph that you are the saviors of pensioners. Somebody needs to talk about the unemployed. One must say that without investment in this country, neither an insurance system is viable nor is there a future economic for the unemployed and nothing. And to invest here, we must first and foremost hit the corruption, the little and the great corruption that you see and hear everywhere. I don't want to talk about this amazing guy, SYRIZA's pizzer who was going to Maximou and taking pictures of Mr. Tsipras' podium. And from a pizzaman - isn't it not bad to be a pizzaman - did he, in quotes and I'm going to say it, he became a misador? In addition to corruption, there must also be bureaucracy in the Greek public. What investor will come to put his money, Greek or foreign, when red tape can destroy his investment and throw him back? In order for a substantial investment to come about, there must also be rapid justice. They cannot block investments for years and after ten, twelve years, give the green light from justice to continue the investment. What investment after ten and twelve years? In addition, to concentrate on what needs to be done, so that the next particularly intense and interesting 12-hour sitting of Parliament takes place for jobs, I say: we have to make a cultural leap in favour of excellence. As long as we're involved in meditation, this will be our future. I now come to the amendment with which you are zeroing - to be precise - the Special Consumption Tax which you have imposed on wine. And let's see your political fraud. And I say quite clearly that you have made political deceit. In this very Chamber three years ago, on December 11, 2015, you SYRIZA and ANEL Members voted to impose a excise duty on wine 20 minutes in litre. It passes in 2016, 2017 and ends in 2018. In September 2018, the Council of State comes and makes a decision to tell you that this law must be cancelled and retroactively from January 1st...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u452	Is it about the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u453	The Council of State said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u454	Is it about the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u455	The Council of State canceled this law and even with retroactive force from 1-1-2016. What are you doing with the amendment now? And I wouldn't be so acute if I didn't listen to the celebrations of some Members - thankfully the ministers were more familiar, more landed - say: 'We are abolishing the tax on wine and now the winemaker will grow'. For three years their product was more expensive and most of them absorbed - if possible - this 20-minute increase in the litre, the Special Consumption Tax that the SYRIZA - ANELs have put it into the winemakers. And now you're saying that you've been denying this tax since January 1st. How will they take back the damage you caused them? There is one more thing and here is the political deceit. You said in 2015, when you put this engraving of the Special Consumption Tax on wine, it is an equivalent not to impose VAT on private schools, schools, dance schools, etc. Does Moscovisi then come out - which you mentioned today and in the last few weeks have God - and what did he say when he was asked about both the wine tax and the alleged tax, the VAT you were going to put into education? "The commitments of Greece contained in the Memorandum of August 2015..." - in the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, that is - "... do not contain specific provisions on VAT in private schools". And when he was asked about the excise duty on the wine you guys put on wine, what did he say? 'taxation is a matter for the national authorities'. Moscovisi, who was glorified today, told him the truth, that neither the institutions had requested nor told you to place a tax on wine. You put him on your own. So today, you're making it zero from now on. What happened in three years has happened. Go now and look for the wine grower. You have to find the consumer and get the tax back - how will this thing happen? - Or will he ask you to return the tax to him? No, no, no, no, These are therefore referred to in the ‘Syrianellik’ dialect ‘political deceit’. It suits you entirely and I am sorry that you have tried to show it to such a sensitive issue as non-compliance with the principle of personal differences in pensions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, too. Mr Cavalellas from the Centron Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u457	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, I would like to say two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u460	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u461	First of all, Mr Koutsouko, I would like to say: in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 29, all income from business is explicitly defined as a profit from business activity. Therefore, the revenues from agricultural business were included in the agricultural subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u462	Does he say such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u463	This was the interpretation given by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Finance at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u464	The interpretation!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u465	We came with L.4328/2015, in paragraph 1 of Article 2, and said that only those who exceed EUR 12 000 from subsidies will be income and that agricultural compensation as a whole will not be taken into account. Look it up and see you in the budget, where you can bring anything you want. On the issues raised for young people, we already have a voted labour tax incentive for new jobs. In the next few months, we will also have the OHS of the two ministries that will complement the framework to get young people from businesses. So, we give you a breath to the young, what you said, Mr. Col. of the Police Department. Heating oil: Over the next few days we will have the ministerial decision. I declare it here, too. The mountain municipalities will include the mountain municipalities now defined by ‘KLITHENH’. ‘KLITHENIS’ has more mountainous municipalities than those in the ‘KALIKARAT’. As far as heating oil is concerned, then, in the ministerial decision we will have in the next few days, the mountain municipalities, as defined in the 'KLITHEN I' law, will take the heating oil of the above Zone. If a mountain municipality is in Zone C, for example, it will get the grant of Zone B heating oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u466	Are you going to raise the amount? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u467	You will see in the next few days what will be in the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u468	That is why we call it'submissive'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u469	It's not a pretext at all. It is precisely what Mr Koutsouko said that, because the cold is there, because the price of oil is already increased, the ministerial decision will also be that. You'll see her in the next few days. On wine tax, Mr Amyras, you have made a mistake here and I want to believe that you do not do so on purpose. The S.H.E.'s decision. It has nothing to do with the abolition of the tax on wine or the law that we have passed. The decision of the Council of State is about the implementation of the ministerial decision itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u470	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u471	Consider that there is also reflection, although we are now abolishing it, whether we should make a new ministerial decision in the next few days. Honestly, S.H.E.'s decision. It has to do with the ministerial decision and not with the abolition of the excise duty on wine. First of all, all the operators involved in the taxation of wine thought that it was for this reason and when they realized that it was not, they came and again asked for the abolition of the tax on wine, which we come and do today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u472	What was the Minister's decision about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u473	The Ministerial Decision concerned procedural matters relating to the collection of the wine tax, not in itself the tax, but the imposition of the tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u474	Because that could be questioned by the winemakers involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u475	I have the impression that we should not have a debate. Thirdly, there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we have completed the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u476	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u477	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for any discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u478	It's not a tritology. The Minister hasn't answered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u479	Yes, but I can't force what the Minister will say, Mr. Kutsuko. Can I force it? It can't be done. That is her opinion. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u480	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Amyras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u482	I would like to make a statement about the amendment, which I have omitted in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u483	What do you mean, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u484	I would like to say on Amendment No 1852, which has been made an article, because I missed it and at the vote I will not be able to say it: it is a 40-page amendment within the sitting now at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u485	I think you did. You didn't say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u486	No, I didn't. We don't even want to see her in front of us. We are voting against it. He's inside, I don't know what's wrong with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u488	Here, Mr Kutsuko, you have the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, it is the Bureau's responsibility to ask the Minister what it intends to do with the Members who have been tabled, who does not accept and who does not accept? The amendment I have tabled on the camping of Kuruta has gone to the shower.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Kutsuko, the Minister gave...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u491	You give ten properties to the municipalities and you don't speak. So say why don't you take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u492	The Minister gave an answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u493	Where did he say what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u494	The Bureau cannot oblige the Minister to say what to say. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would remind you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighty-five (85) articles, 12 (12) amendments, the mathematical article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Please make sure that you have voted for the principle of the bill, all the articles, amendments, the hotel room and the whole of it. After registering your vote, you may check it or revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask you to ask the Bureau any questions that might help you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u495	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u496	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u497	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Repeal of the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance products and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u498	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u499	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Monday 22 October 2018, Tuesday 23 October 2018, Wednesday 24 October 2018, Thursday 25 October 2018, Friday 26 October 2018 and Monday 29 October 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u500	The minutes of Monday 22 October 2018, Tuesday 23 October 2018, Wednesday 24 October 2018, Thursday 25 October 2018, Friday 26 October 2018 and Monday 29 October 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-11-S1-commons.u501	With the consent of the House at 23.21 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, December 12, 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote on the draft law ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’.
