ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 May 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Georgios Papaphippippou, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 11th Municipal School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papaphippipou has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as SYRIZA's rapporteur in today's bill, I feel very happy for three reasons: firstly, I appreciate and believe that this is an important aspect in the social state, especially in the area of protection of the most vulnerable social group, of minors, who need protection from the state. Secondly, the hearing of the representatives of the bodies before the committee showed that this bill was accepted and approved by the majority of the bodies. This, of course, means that it is moving in the right direction. Thirdly, during the drafting of the bill in committee, there was a constructive and substantial dialogue on the part of all parties in low tones, without any minor controversy. Substantial proposals have been submitted and many of them have been accepted by the Minister. The aim and main objective of today's bill is to decouple minors through assumption and adoption. Our country is experiencing a grim social reality today. Who's that? More than three thousand minor children are hosted and live in institutions either in the public sector or in the private sector. Of course, the right term is 'closed child protection and care units' and not 'institutions'. It is acceptable both from the scientific community and from all parties and all actors that the hospitality of minors in institutions has adverse consequences for these children, especially for children between zero and four years old. Unfavourable effects relate to cognitive, emotional and social. It is also accepted by all, scientific and other bodies, that the lifting of the adverse effects mentioned above can be achieved through the assumption and adoption of minors, which are alternative forms of family rehabilitation for these children. With assumption and adoption, a child is placed in a family to ensure that he grows up in a stable and secure environment that is capable of providing him with care, love, affection and supplies that a child needs to complete, emotional and socially, without adverse consequences. Thus, assumption and adoption are the main institutions of child protection and a favoured state, and especially a state such as Greece, which has incorporated into its National Law the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, has an obligation to ensure that minors in need of care and protection are placed in one of these institutions. Legislative intervention under the bill was absolutely necessary and necessary. And that's why? As I said before, the number of children hosted in institutions is huge, it's three thousand. It is also known and accepted by everyone that the interest of candidates and fostering parents is enormous. So why, despite the interest of candidate parents, fosterers and contractors, does this large number of children still exist in institutions? The conclusion is that it malfunctions the system which is responsible for promoting these two institutions, i.e. the services responsible are malfunctioning and have many shortcomings. The draft law we are debating today attempts to remove these malfunctions with innovative and progressive arrangements that strengthen scientific and institutional acceptance and adoption, promote them in Greek society, speed up their integration procedures, with transparency and legal certainty and - above all - serve the best interests of the child. This is because it ensures him in a short time, his placement to the most appropriate for the same contractor or foster family, who will have been trained to fulfil the obligations and responsibilities arising from the function of the foster family or family he adopts. The innovative arrangements for implementing these objectives are as follows: Firstly, a collective advisory body called the National Admission - Adoption Council is first introduced and institutionalised. Based on its composition, responsibilities and how it works, we are sure or hopefully confident that there will be coordination between the bodies involved in the assumption and that the situation in these areas will be improved and that the state will be facilitated to develop a strategy for adoption and assumption. National registers, which are as follows: the national register of minors, the national registers of candidate contractors and fosterers and parents, the national registers of authorised assignors and adoptions shall be established or reorganised. The establishment and proper functioning of these registers, which will be maintained by the National Centre for Social Solidarity in electronic form, will enable a reliable database to be established so that the State is aware of the exact number of minor children who are either hosted and living in institutions, public and private, or are to be provided with adoption or assumption. There will also be an accurate and complete picture of potential contractors and foster parents. The existence of these registers, together with the functioning of the ESDC, will contribute to the promotion of the institutions of adoption and assumption and to the safeguarding of young children in a family for admission or adoption. The time has come for the required social research to be carried out. It is well known that both assumption and adoption require two social research, one for the suitability of candidate fosterers and foster parents and one for it to be understood whether this candidate foster family is suitable for the particular child that he has chosen. It is now possible to use certified social workers from the CSCE to carry out these surveys. One of the major causes of the system's failure is the lack of social workers involved in these institutions and investigations. Today, the social workers who serve in the competent supervisory bodies conducting these investigations amount to only eighty. In this way, however, and since private social workers are now being introduced - as well as the possibility for a contributor to contact a social worker from another municipality or prefecture - there will also be a large number of social workers who are already serving, who will deal in particular with the supervision of the institutions of admission. This draft law also provides for the following: The training and training of candidate fosterers and fosterers from specialists, psychologists, lawyers and social workers, from the services that are supervised by assumption. Monitoring and supervision of fosters and parent and children who have been given to a foster family, the way in which fostering parents handle minors who have been protected. An additional course and training seminar for parents who already have children in assumption is also provided for. Enlargement of the circle of parents who are able to become fostering parents through integration into this cycle and families made up of cohabitants. I will return to this point at the end, because problems have arisen which are well known to everyone, for the possibility that couples of couples may also become foster parents. The financial support of all parent fostering parents, if they so wish, and its extension to three categories and after adulthood of children undergoing assumptions: those with disabilities as long as the assumption takes place, students for six years after their entry into a higher or higher school and until they have completed the 20th year of their age and to adolescents who are responsible for military obligation, while they have been under military service. The medical coverage of the children by the parent-insurance provider and, if the parent-insurance provider is uninsured, it is provided in accordance with the legislation applicable to our insecure fellow citizens and vulnerable social groups. The establishment of the occupational assumption for disabled children and serious mental disorders is also envisaged. You will allow me to insist on this, because there have been objections to this institution, and it covers a huge problem in Greek society. Many of these children are - let me speak - to unclaimed, because the prospective parent or the prospective fosterer chooses a child healthy. So these children are children of a lower god and the only way to decouple is to establish the institution of professional assumption. In addition, professional contractors will have been appropriately trained and qualified to enable them to meet their duties with a sufficient degree of competence. Finally, there is provision for the introduction of short-term vocational assumptions, which covers a huge need for children in the event of a loss of parental care due to a misconduct on the part of their parents, and there is an imminent risk to their health and life. You will now allow me to come back and deal a little more with Article 8, particularly the point that allows gay couples to become foster parents. It has also been dealt with within the House, as well as by the press, most strongly criticised. In view of the lack of time, I shall return to my remarks on this matter, because it is certain that I will...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u4	You can make use of the time of dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u5	In this respect, the criticism focuses on the fact that society is immature to accept this institution, or that it will be detrimental to the interests of the child because of the non-discrimination of the biological sex of couples and the resulting lack of the male and female standard. The scientific community, however - recently, there was a sound intervention from the side of fifty-five academics working at either universities in Greece or at universities abroad - finds that raising a child from foster parents who are homosexuals does not have any effect on the identity of their gender, on their sexual orientation or on the quality of their relations with their parents and it is considered that these parents are equally suited to the parents of a family of heterosexual people. It is imperative to establish this possibility, both for social and political reasons and for legal reasons. To start with from the legal grounds for enforcing. It is impossible to exclude homogeneous couples if and if this possibility is granted to heterogeneous couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. If that happens, this is contrary both to the Greek Constitution, to Article 4(1) and to Article 21(1), and will easily lapse in the Greek courts. It is also contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and it is understandable that it will suppress the European Court of Human Rights. But social reasons also require the introduction of this possibility. I told you that the children who live in institutions are three thousand. Therefore, it is imperative to widen the circle of people who can become foster parents. There are also political reasons for this, because this is the way to allow the couples of the same sexes to be guaranteed and their individual freedoms widened. I insist, however, once again that this will in no way be at the expense of the interests of young children, because - as I said before - it will have absolutely no effect on the integration of their personality, on their sexual orientation and on their gender identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Marku, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated - because we do not have precise data - that there are some two to three thousand children in institutions. They are children who have been abandoned by their natural family, whose parents cannot take care of them for economic reasons, who are abandoned in institutions due to disability, children who have fallen victim to crime by their natural families. Of these, only 10% seem to be placed in foster family, which is disappointing, compared with other countries where assumption as alternative care is established practice for years. The rule in our country is the foundation. Surely institutions have played an important role in childcare and should not ignore their work, but also the new role they can play in the first reception and transition. But I think we all agree that a child's natural location is the family. This is also provided for in the International Treaty on the Rights of the Child in Article 20, which was ratified in 1992. However, the same is true of a series of scientific studies which mention the negative effects of the founding effect on psychosis and the development of children. The New Democracy, recognising precisely the dimensions that have taken place in children's abandonment, has already presented a comprehensive package of proposals and interventions for the assumption, adoption and abandoned children, proposals such as the establishment of a pan-Hellenic coordination body with essential powers of supervision and monitoring, strengthening the judiciary system for the protection of minors, juvenile prosecutors and curators, strengthening social services with mobility or targeted recruitment, and introducing a certain deadline for the completion of the judicial procedures of adoption. A few months later, in September 2016, Mrs. Fotio announced that she has a draft law on assumption and adoption. Eighty-eight months later this bill came to Parliament, an attempt to replicate most of our proposals. So, at the Government's initiative, an attempt could have been made to compose proposals and consensus, an essential debate with involvement and society, so that we can now talk about the substance. Instead, we have before us a bill that brings about positive but minor changes in the current framework, which does not take drastic measures to better coordinate and supervise the institutions of child protection, which leaves the issue of child protection unaffected. At the same time, for the first time in time, we have accepted the absolute collapse of the system of child protection in the country. We have now reached the point in a legal text providing for the possibility for a competent authority to declare a failure to implement basic competence, without at the same time making any provision for substantial support for these services to staff, know-how and tools. The fragmented interventions that are being attempted without joining a comprehensive and coherent strategy on child protection, without long-term investment in structures, services and staff, can best offer only temporary solutions. Let me remind you here that in November 2014 the previous government, after a wide consultation of competent bodies, experts and NGOs, gave a public consultation draft of the National Action Plan on the Rights of the Child for the period 2015-2020, which included, among other things, a series of arrangements on the assumption and adoption of the issues. Nearly three years later, in September 2017, you proceeded with the establishment of a National Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for the National Action Plan for the child now horizond for the National Plan for the period 2018-2020. In fact, you said at the time that he was in a final stage of processing. We are already in the middle of 2018 and still the National Action Plan, which could be this required strategic framework and on the issues we are discussing today, has not yet been presented. This is an introduction to the general issue of child protection. On the subject of the bill, the reform and promotion of the institutions of assumption and adoption, one of the main problems is the lack of central planning and coordination, and that is why services and responsibilities are fragmented at central, regional and local level. So we still have, as an innovation in the draft law, a board which has only an advisory and advisory role, no real competence. We are not opposed, but this Council, with its responsibilities, does not respond to the problem. We already have the experience of the National Council for Adoption. Actually, it never worked. There was no need for a new body. It could simply strengthen the EKRD with staff through targeted mobility and with the responsibilities necessary to coordinate the other bodies. The absence of child protection institutions from the composition of the board is also problematic. Generally many of the regulations introduced could have been solved by simple administrative improvements, especially in the field of registers, and, most of all, you repeat the regulations in force with small amendments. In fact, there is nowhere to be said that you inherited some structures and institutions from previous governments. Kouveda for e-pronoia, the work of the previous government, which includes the operation of a child's online file, as well as the keeping and management of the various registries. In 2015 you cut the ribbon with drum impacts and today you legislate as if there were no. Another serious issue which is not dealt with sufficiently, in our view, is the post-monitoring of assumption, the so-called'supervision' of Article 13. It is something that almost all the institutions have stressed. You have heard our concerns and, of course, you have made some legislative improvements and that is good. However, we would also like you to see some other issues such as the local competence of supervisory bodies. I would like to mention one example from the committee. While a child located in Thessaloniki and the contractor is in Drama. Who will be the competent supervisory body? Will he be the one supervising the foundation in Thessaloniki? Will social services be in Drama? This seems to me to be clearer in the text of the law. Secondly, the supervision of assumption needs a multidisciplinary approach, not to go a social worker once a month as a spaceguard. Here we need a system of social services integrated at community level, with multidisciplinary support and a biological family based - I say this again! - and be able, depending on the circumstances, to have access to the child at any time. Thirdly, you say that they will take over supervisory bodies. But these are the same bodies which, under Article 26 of the bill, would be able to declare failure to carry out the necessary social research. How will they exercise effective supervision of the assumption? We all know about the recruitment rule. But you could, if child protection were indeed a priority, within the thousands of recruits you have made, also include social workers or even strengthen services through the institution of mobility. That's not what you did either. We are going to Article 26, to a privatisation of social services through the PSE. No one doubts the scientific training of the link, nor the internal disciplinary procedures. However, a system of supervision and sanctions should also be provided for those social workers who undertake social research experts, as is the case for the other persons involved in Article 19. Article 26 refers only to the obligation to cooperate with the supervisory body and to compliance with the deadlines. In general, regular supervision is necessary in the interests of the child. We don't put a child in a family and wash our hands. In addition to this, we must ensure, especially once a relevant allowance is granted or the professional assumption is introduced with remuneration, that we do not have an industry of contractors or the exploitation of minors in assumptions, as has happened in other countries. As far as the benefit itself is concerned, it is obviously positive to extend as an incentive for assumption. However, you do not give us any details of what level we are talking about, for example, if it is as much as the child benefit. The positive arrangements include the other facilities referred to in Article 12 to cover insurance for children by the contractor, as well as the compulsory training of candidates for contractors and fosterers. Of course, all these issues require some ten ministerial and joint ministerial decisions, which will certainly delay the implementation of the law. The public statements of SYRIZA ministers and MPs are cultivated by the misleading and simplistic impression that the law will be passed and as magical parents waiting ten years to get a child, they will have it in their arms the next day. I wish things were so simple. Time is growing, it's not falling. The Minister himself said so in committee. Three checks in three stages, one quarter each. So, certainly nine months, instead of the six months that existed in the former regime. This is not necessarily a problem, in that it is the child's best interest to ensure that the new environment offers the tranquility, hug and regularity that has been deprived. But don't lie to the world that time will be reduced. As for adoption, in an information website on issues of assumption and adoption a year ago, statements from representatives of competent bodies are hosted for adoption that there are already couples waiting for the next four years. Finally, what is the result of the long-term wait? Is it a matter of bureaucracy? Is this a matter of court proceedings? Is it a matter of lack of children available for adoption? We must explain these in the world and not for micro-participatory benefits to pretend that all the problems are dealt with. The assumption and adoption process is not a competition with other countries to improve statistics. He has demands and difficulties that should not be passed on to the finest letters. It is precisely the problem that we have developed in committee about the system of judicial protection for minors. The delays in the completion of the adoptions are great. The judges themselves and the prosecutors have spoken of the great problems that exist in committee and their inability to manage the huge volume of adoptions. Our foundations have spoken of the delays they are facing to take a mere registration act for one of the caregivers. 'This is not a matter of competence' you told us. Of course, within eighteen months, you could have made an integrated intervention, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, of course. In any case, I would like to repeat from this forefront, in the hope that the Minister of Justice will also listen, that we must immediately look at the issues that have to do either with the establishment of family courts that will proceed more quickly and more specifically with the procedures that have to do with children, or with the strengthening of the judiciary for the protection of minors. Finally, I should also like to mention the question of extending the assumption to couples with a cohabitation agreement, so also to homosexual couples. It's complicated and it's about child psychiatrics. The very reality is complicated and we must first understand it. For example, the child’s interest is served when the child is neglected in a heterosexual couple and who will find it? It can also be in the care of a couple of couples and because of an outdoor environment, stylish and vigilant, the child is unhappy, what "yes" or "no" and say, we or the law. Far from extremes, we look at the interest of the child and it is critical of which social circle and in what context it is placed. Even in America things are very different from state to state. The New Democracy has pointed out from the outset that this dialogue has not taken precedence over this issue in society. That's not a pretext. The majority of the world feels even today that we are talking about adoption and has not understood the difference between adoption and assumption. The reactions within the parties also reflect the reactions within society. Apart from the question of society's readiness, how will such a move be made, when the government, through the bill, admits that the relevant social services are unable to carry out their work? With such a collapsed system, who will offer the support that may be needed in such cases against a sceptical and cautious society? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take time from my dentistry, Mr President. At European, institutional level, however, the question of the protection of rights is also raised, as these have been reflected in the ECHR and are constantly being concealed through the case law of the European Court of Justice. So the issue is important and complex and is not afforded for political exploitation. It is not a question of tabling our credentials, how progressively or conservatively they are, nor of a line, to have an absolute view. The point is that a child, who has already been through a lot to find himself in the temporary condition of assumption, has as calm and normal life as possible and does not live any new cancellations. In any case, this is the New Democracy view and is placed in the world's crisis. But at least it is hypocritical that you, both in the New Democracy and in society, should move the finger to your partners and your own MPs. People have understood how all this is not done in the name of some ideology, no progression, no alleged protection of rights. Because if it were intended to have a substantial debate, you would have taken care - as I said at the beginning - of cultivating this consensus. These issues are not solved by a two-week consultation, nor by three committees. In total, most of the things mentioned in the bill are obvious and not unprecedented. There is no introduction of a large reform section, but corrections are being made to institutions that you have found as a deposit by previous governments. You have had the opportunity in the last three years to have solved many of the issues with administrative intervention, but you have not done so. For the New Democracy, a primary concern is to ensure the best interests of the child by operating an effective system which will quickly and sensitively ensure that every child finds a family, either temporarily or forever, that a family will be able to progress and develop without artificial disadvantages. Overall, despite weaknesses, the New Democracy is in favour of the start of the Act on Admission, and this is because the bill covers, even late, to a very large extent, our proposals for the assumption of July 2016. And we must all, together, for the sake of the children, help to ensure that the law can function in its essence. We have, of course, some reservations about the issues that I mentioned before, and we expect to see any changes in the course of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing today a bill on the taking-up and adoption of a bill, we must first think that this bill must unite many sides of the House in the interests of our children, in particular, to the rights of our children who must go ahead and, in particular, to those children's souls that are away from their family - because they cannot be with her for too many reasons - and they lack the affection and care that every child should have. That is why we in the Democratic Partnership throughout the process of drafting the bill proposed this interest. And we have proposed children's rights beyond any other kind of human rights, which - as you will see - are respected and defended. And that is why, despite the fact that the bill does not bring the cut we would have wanted, which we discussed in the committee, which would be the institution of the family court - and I acknowledge, Madam Minister, that this is consistent with the Ministry of Justice, and I hope, with the involvement of many political forces, that this piece of legislation which will have a great impact on the issue of adoption - in the Democratic Alliance, we believe that this bill contains several positive provisions which help both the institution of admission and the adoption of children's rights. And here in the introductory part, ladies and gentlemen, to those of us in whichever side of the House belongs, they are talking about maturity or non-social issues, and I would like to remind you of the large areas of 1982 in family law, such as political marriage, gender equality. These changes were then disturbed by society and they were not accepted by society at all. Today, however, it is a pretext for political forces that have not even voted on it. This large section of PASOK was followed by a section of the adoption bill. I wanted to see it in the explanatory statement. It's okay, Minister, you didn't. It is Law 2447/1996, which has brought in positive areas - I think you too admit it - to the institution of adoption. And be careful, the 1996 law, except for the lack of the next family court, does not have so many weaknesses in the regulatory area, but in implementation. And some of the arrangements, as they have been formed, of this bill help to speed up. That is why we will be able to reach agreement in particular after the changes made by the Minister and the government to the committee. And I would like to thank you, because the proposals of the Democratic Incorporation, almost universally, have been accepted. Because we have had no benefit but to help, so that there are no misunderstandings and any changes to serve, as I said, dehabilitation, the need for the child to be close to the biological family and, of course, his interests. And I begin by saying that these positive changes are first and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, the change in Article 8. Because we had also pointed out to the committee - and I would like to take a couple of minutes to explain it - that, as was the old presidential decree, which put the rigid nomination of foster parents, it could act distortingly even in the interests of the child itself when the law said that the first pair of couples were added - the cohabitation agreement was added since it became the state law and we voted on it - and of course the individual individuals. However, this rigid series involved the risk of promoting a family that was not the family that should, that is, the most loving, the family that would give the child protection and love to another family or individual. The amendment tabled by Mrs Fotou on the basis of our position and our position is in agreement. Why is Article 8 saying right now? He says the suitability to the assumption is the primary criterion. And he also says that in the case of relatives, the age limit does not apply. This amendment, Minister, is in the right direction, because it is precisely helping if we have a relative to give priority, because the child must not be cut off, wherever possible, from his roots. Of course, I would like here to stress how much we all need to be grounded in our Constitution. I appeal to all of us, and I do not want to be misunderstood about what I am going to say: There is more hypocrisy for all of us when we forget that, as the law stands today, before voting on this bill, any Greek individual can adopt a child or be a foster parent without, of course, unconstitutional discrimination based on sex, religion or sexual preference. And I would like here, ladies and gentlemen, to invoke the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which in 2008 found that French administration made a distinction against a kindergarten, which, with great care, wanted to adopt a child. The European Court of Justice has therefore made a positive judgment in the direction of defending rights. So the rights of the child are being promoted, but the rights of all follow us. For all these reasons, therefore, we in the Democratic Assent are positively seeing the changes made by Mrs Fotou to Article 8 and we are voting in favour of it. Mr President, I too would like to have your tolerance here, because we have a debate on the articles and on the bill, and there are a lot of things I want to say. First of all, as far as the advisory body is concerned, this committee: Minister, we would like to propose again, as we did in committee, this National Admission and Adoption Council, in addition to its advisory nature, also to have representatives of local government, not just the Ministry of the Interior, as well as representatives of associations of disabled people, namely the ESDP and the Poseidom, that is to say, parents and guardians. We consider their advice to be essential to the advisory body and ask you to take a close look at it. With regard to registries: Look, a lot of reason has been done if it was beforehand. Indeed, there was the register by previous ministerial decision. It is not a reform of the legal 'copy paste' nor of making a ministerial decision and making it a record. However, I will say that we are not going to stand negatively on the legalisation of the registers because they already existed. You're trying to migrate the evidence to the HICP. We wish you good luck in this work, but it is not the big issue of conflict there. I now come to two parts of the bill, which are in the positive direction, as amended by Mrs Fotio: private experts, a role which the social workers will play. We believe that the Association of Social Workers of Greece can play an important role in certification, training, advisory support for the whole institution of adoption and assumption. We therefore believe that, with appropriate amendments, in particular by establishing certifications and protocols on the basis of which adoption will be monitored, it is very important that we go to private experts and that these people should complete the work of the state services. We don't want to deport social services. However, we think that this is in the right direction, and I would like to mention the fact that, with the amendments made to the articles, we have the legislative improvement that assumption and adoption, particularly adoption, should be supervised and controlled at least every month. This, if you like, removes some reservations we had at the start of the debate on whether we will have adequate supervision beforehand and, of course, after the assumption and after the adoption. Finally, I'm going to make some extra suggestions. In Article 8(2), it would be a good thing to maintain the possibility of candidates with disabilities such as this not to prevent them from performing the task of taking over. They're not expressly in the article. If we can improve it, it'll be in the right direction. In Article 19, in the context of general and special prevention, we should provide as a preservative for the execution of criminal offences against the child by foster parents and contractors. It's an extreme case, but it's good for the law to anticipate it. It is in the positive direction, which Mrs Fotou has proposed in Article 8(2) and in the case of other criminal offences, such as robbery, but which we add to Article 19. I think it's in the right direction. Finally, for the family court, I think I'm placed. I think we can, if you like, use the debate on this bill to prepare and move political waters a little, because it is very important for judges who consider adoption - because they too have a heavy task - not to get a case of adoption or other family law in the middle of other cases, theft, burglary and other criminal offences or other urban serious cases. You will allow me, in the time left, to refer to an amendment tabled by Members of the Democratic Incorporation in this bill as a relevant issue, because it concerns the responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour, as it exists today. This amendment was also tabled as part of the proposal for a Act of Democratic Incorporation to remove the extreme injustices of the Katrugalo law on insurance or, rather, insurance, because in addition to the cuts, this law of 2016 is also a very reinsurance law. Ladies and gentlemen, because because of social data the majority, the vast majority of people in widowhood at the moment of the cuts are women, I invoke all of you. What's happened? You know very well that these women lost 70% of the pension. It has only been 50%, which is given for three years, if it is over fifty-fifths, and it does not even come back if it is under fifty-two years in the sixty-seventh. We're talking about extreme poverty, extreme injustice. We suggest reintroducing the former regime. Because Mrs Ahchioglu, in seeing these women on their own behalf, promised them that after August she would see their point, we would suggest, Minister, in our amendment to the law, that you put any date in September. But put it on. Or you'll lie. You'll lie to these women. I beg your pardon very much, Mrs Fotio, but we also hear it from you and others on the side of SYRIZA, who lie unreservedly. And as you know, the Democratic Reconciliation has said the Change Movement here recently in its conference that all this law needs serious review. What do we hear? Two-language again. We are listening to Mr Tsakalotos or to the President of this House saying 'children cannot do that, let us not talk' and now we hear it from you, Mrs Fotou, and I am sorry to say that, of the most appropriate lips. You are a good student, and you and Mrs. Ahtsioglou of Mr. Katrugalo and Mr. Tsipras. So stop lying. Don't work the world. Tell the truth to the world and, in any case, we are talking about a comprehensive review of the Katrugalo law, but at least about these widows put a date September and we will vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cassimatis is calling for a short-day absence abroad from 7 May to 10 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and an educational meeting from the private general high school Maliara. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aivatidis from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed draft law is entitled ‘Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions’. It is composed of four chapters: First chapter contains provisions for the National Admission - Adoption Council. The second chapter contains provisions on assumption. The third chapter contains provisions on the adoption and the fourth chapter contains organisational provisions on social services and registries. A critical question arises: What is the incentive of coexistence in order to introduce this draft law? A number of pretexts have been heard, but the political core of this draft law is Article 8, which allows for the assumption of minors by homosexuals who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. SYRIZA has in the past introduced various legislations. We believe that the cloak of humanity introduces ideologies of anarchism. And not only that, but it promotes what is called 'rightfulness'. Who's the cloak in this particular draft law? The political mantle, I mean. The best of the child. In an attempt to establish a scientific basis for Article 8, an intervention of fifty-five psychologists from the academic community has taken place, who in the text they sign and which has brought a provocative title, misleading, actually say nothing about the issue of assumption. I would like to stress that during the committees, the effort made by the Minister was evident - I would say that he made desperate efforts and followed up, unfortunately, many parties - to shift the centre of gravity of the debate to other articles, beyond 8, which may at least in terms of adoption and the relevant articles have some positive elements. During the committees, an internal dispute took place in SYRIZA. Since some SYRIZA Members were alleged to perceive and do not intend to politically defend this article, the Minister chose not to focus on it. I would remind you that there was a strong conflict between the young people of SYRIZA and the Members who were alleged to be differentiated. A similar internal conflict broke out both in the New Democracy and the Movement of Change, as well as in the Independent Greeks, since there were obvious differences. These conflicts were intensified after the announcement of a request for a roll-call vote from the Golden Dawn. What I wanted to stress is that during the committees I found a shift in the position of the New Democracy. It was initially heard that he would vote against Article 8. At the end of the second reading of the committees, the rapporteur of the New Democracy supported or at least took the view of the other members of the committee that the Members of the New Democracy would vote consciously. I would like to say, for historical reasons, that the cohabitation pact was passed as a state law in 2008 on government of Constantine Karamanlis. The Minister responsible was Mr Avramopoulos. Subsequently, in December 2015, the New Democracy, in particular, seventeen New Democracy MPs, led by the Head of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, voted in favour of the cohabitation pact as well for homosexuals. In other words, we find a dissatisfaction with the New Democracy, which may be in line with a libertarian, neoliberal attitude. We believe, however, that, if the majority of the Members of the New Democracy are voted in favour of this Article 8 in their roll-call vote, it will be modest, because we stress that it is an ethno-corruption article and, in fact, it is voted in favour of parties which support political correctness. The Golden Dawn approached this article at a very flat level. We are ideologically opposed to the symphony of cohabitation, and most of all, to the assumption of homosexual couples, because the institution of the family is being destroyed, which is essentially the foundation stone of our society. Apart from this approach, however, which is a purely political approach, a scientific approach has been followed, based on multiannual scientific research, undisturbed scientific data showing the following: Firstly, children, who have as contractors "family" peers, have a dramaticly low performance in the cognitive field. Secondly, they have poor socialism. And, thirdly, there are very large studies on this, which I will testify to - there are more than twice as many emotional disorders, hyperactivity syndrome, and attention dissociation syndrome. I am therefore presenting this study with some translation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The reply of the Minister for these scientific arguments was as follows: that Golden Dawn scientificizes its homophobic trend. The Minister is trying to contradict these scientific arguments. And I would say that this phrase, which she did not withdraw, is politically modest. I replied to her in committee that SYRIZA, at least in the specific draft law and related, shows a normative trend, a normative political speech, after fighting all the national ones: customs, traditions, religion, our language. That's the political memorial. On the other hand, this reference means something very specific: that the Golden Dawn uses scientific arguments. Of course what is called "science" is very different from what is called "scientificism". Because the promotion of the intervention of the fifty-five psychologists, both from SYRIZA Members and from the party leader Potami, is scientificism. As for promoting a rightfulness of coexistence, and in particular by SYRIZA, it is a given one. This is a political modus operaandi, because by anti-racist law the government is using these people, which have certain peculiarities. If some who belong to the overwhelming majority express a view that is allegedly 'insulting' the rights of these fellow citizens, it is immediately being mobilised, a mechanism which hits so-called racism is being activated. I repeat that the political use of rightfulness is critical, and these people, who have the specific peculiarities, must realise that they are being used by those who appear to be humanists. As far as the investigations carried out are concerned, I would like to say that there are indeed opposing investigations. However, in the specific studies carried out by the psychologists who claimed that there is no problem with these children who have couples of foster parents, the questionnaire to investigate these problems was sent to the foster parents and not to these children after they were grown up. I would like to say that the greatest study, which is also the key for the position of psychiatric and psychology in this matter, has already been carried out in 1996 by a distinguished Greek scientist in Australia, the Sarantaco Salvation, a scientific opinion that was subsequently raised by scientists from the United States, from Canada and from other countries. With regard to Article 5, which I would say is controversial, the government should ensure that there is no uncontrolled integration of unaccompanied minors with a refugee identity, a refugee profile, say, in this particular list, into the register. I say this because, on the one hand, it involves the integration of people who do not know the Greek state, but, even if they know, it leads to a population change. I would remind you that, as a minor, Iranian Hussein Hawari, who attempted to murder a student in Corfu in 2013 and in 2016, murdered a German national in Freiburg. In Article 8, the Minister did make a legislative improvement, adopting a position on the Golden Dawn, that at least the criminal offence of robbery should be included in the heresy for inclusion in this list. But can they be contractors who have been convicted of domestic violence, intentional manslaughter, rape and distinguished thefts? This list should be enriched. To close, from what I said and generally from the stand of the Golden Dawn in this draft law and other relevant ones, it appears that in the Greek Parliament there is a political movement of the National Guard, the Golden Dawn. Unfortunately, there is the party of the parties made up of the other political parties, which have an ethnic and nationalist attitude and politics for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in this draft law refers to the need to create an institutional framework, with a view to the family rehabilitation of children who need personalised care and care on the part of the state, so as to avoid the problems of children growing up in closed care structures. In the context of this legislative intervention, therefore, the National Admission - Adoption Council is established, the National Register of minors living in child protection units, the National Register of Candidate Parents for Parents for Patients who wish to adopt a child or become contractors, the award of social research and the drafting of a social report to private social workers of the CRL, while establishing a professional admission for children with chronic health problems, compared with a monthly salary and insurance. It forms, in other words, from a number of rules governing public and private adoption and assumption, a kind of necessary urban modernisation, but without questioning the basic direction of deregulation of the State's responsibility on child protection. On the other hand, it shifts responsibility for child protection from the state, its public structures and services to the family - physics, positive or even contractor - to the individual - parent and private sector in general. In other words, it deals with childbirth and childbirth as an individual case and not as a social issue, while at the same time maintaining and strengthening the whole system of private adoption, the action of non-governmental organisations and private individuals, which leads with mathematical accuracy to child trafficking. On this basis, therefore, the occupational assumption of children with disabilities or serious mental disorders is also established, with a court ruling on professionals offering services, as against monthly remuneration. In our opinion, professional contractors will be professional and not fostering parents on the basis of a supreme altruistic act of assistance to the unprotected child. Objectively, the incentive will be to obtain income from the professional. There will be possible phenomena, which, in order to increase profit, will compress even basic needs of the child in order to cost less. Experience from abroad has shown that professional contractors felt more professional and less parents, and that is why there are children who have changed tens of different professional contractors, with a significant impact on their psychosocial development. In its inability to justify the continuation of the political downturn and the closure of public structures for child protection, but also its anguish to give room to non-governmental organisations and professional contractors, the Government puts forward various scientific arguments, allegedly depreciating public units. We recall that in a similar way the public psychiatric units have been despised and closed in the past, with disastrous consequences for mental patients and their families. Any investigations that SYRIZA invoked demonstrate the serious consequences that might exist for a child growing up in an institution, concern the state structures, that is, the structures that governments have left without infrastructure and personnel, without scientific planning. These very foundations are the first to say that they are dangerous. The decontamination of these research data, however, combined with the defamation of the important role of well-organised and staffed social structures for the child is from the evil one and leads objectively to discounts from the scientific, social criteria for what is best for the interests of the child. So the government does this and even tries to hide behind the press statements 'better in a family than in the foundation'. It is a fat lie, which the Minister constantly repeats, in her way of doing so, that the JRC is in favour of child loathing in institutions. Where does that conclusion come from? Madam Minister, with your government and SYRIZA we are separated anyway. It is, of course, legitimate to have differences. But this is also the distortion of the position of the JRC. It is a common tactic of SYRIZA, which triggers it when it turns into the confrontation, presenting the KKE's positions with the head down and feet up. As well as making it clear, although you know our position very well, the JRC, from a start, is in favour of assumption and adoption. The priority is the family with the right environment, but not the pig in the sack, not any family, not any assumption and adoption. But the government must answer from now on: children who do not have the way out, the chance to find refuge in a family, where exactly will they go? What is the state's concern for this? None. Why does that state, your state, consider these children to be public waste? We will not accept in the name of the shortcomings that your own governments have caused, the unprotected children, especially those with disabilities and serious mental disorders, to be exposed to NGOs or to be a 'black' among professional contractors. When the Communist Party of Greece refers to the protection of the child, it means defending and extending its rights on the basis of its normal psychosomatic and social development. Clear? Clearly. The JRC's position is unnegotiable to abolish the contractual and private adoption of any transaction between natural and natural parents. The assignment of a child to a family, contractor or fosterer, must be done on the best possible terms for the child and therefore with the most stringent criteria for candidate fostering parents. Halfways, poor controls and logic of the formula "better in any family than in an institution" as a JRC are across us. The JRC argues that the State should have the full, exclusive responsibility in this area, which starts with the prevention of the phenomenon, the support of families in every way, along with the assumption and adoption of appropriately selected and trained families who will not have the profit as an incentive. There must be modern and high-level child protection units, with all modern infrastructure, staffed with permanent, adequate and well-trained staff, not only for children who cannot join a family, but also for those who already have a family, for single-parent families, for families who have disabled children and who are doomed to live at home in asylum. Is this position part of the JRC's proposal on the primary health system, with the body of the health centre, which will have the full picture of the reference population, in order to identify in good time the families and children at risk at community level, the family planning and support of single parents, in general by strengthening families in crisis, in order to limit pathogens, which would drastically reduce the cases of children required adoption or assumption? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the main and not the legal guarantee of a person or a couple's right to take up or adopt, especially for the child without a family. In our view it is necessary to set up a single pan-European body with sole responsibility for this. This body is responsible for the operation of children's state hosting units. At the same time, those legal persons who comply with the requirements of joining this institution and the rest of them to stop working in the field of child protection. The single entity, in our view, must be responsible for the preparation, training, candidate fosterers and fosterers of parents, monitoring, control, support for contractors and fosterers of families. Ladies and gentlemen, this serious issue of child protection, in our view, has classic content and the government is desperately trying to hide it. It hides it by displaying it as a class-neutral field, avoids putting it into critical questions, which we have put to committees and which we have not received: why are these few public services dismantling for the child? Why is the lack of public infrastructure and services for acceptance and adoption almost complete? Why does exploitation and marketing of children reap? Same for the abused and exploited multiple women and mother? Why are all these phenomena strengthened? Who's responsible? The recent example of the mother who left her children to the prosecutor, because she could not sustain them, highlights the problem and demonstrates the neutrality of the problem that the government and SYRIZA invoked. This is only one example of the consequences of fair growth based on competitiveness, profitability of business groups, the creation of impoverished and the state that is limited to managing them simply. In fact, the Minister also mentioned in her position at second reading in committee that no social system faced these tragedies in children not only in the 20th century but also in the 19th century. You brought it from here, you brought it from there, into the Soviet Union, you took it. Instead of telling us about the exes, don't you tell us better about the present? Let's see what the picture is in today's capitalist Russia of absolute pale and absolute poverty, which is fine letters, of course. When the Greeks sold the Greeks to America, the Soviet Union fought, from the first moment, after the victory of the October Revolution, for children's protection, for mother, to deal with illiteracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of child protection in the Soviet Union has been solved. The phenomenon with malnutrition children who faint in schools or in kindergartens was unknown. The transfer of children, where necessary, was made at state expense and not should the parent pay, as is done here and in the capitalist world in general. The protection of children's health was undertaken by institutions for the treatment and prevention of children's diseases, children's hospitals, multiclinical, children's departments of general hospitals, sanatoria, children's stations, children's health facilities, and much more. Children's polyclimates and external medical systems played a key role. General medical surveillance of children was established by pediatricians and permanent nurses. This reminder, ladies and gentlemen, is today of its own value, especially today that this government, SYRIZA - ANEL, the former, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, who is dragging on the other train, the European Union with its policy within the capitalist system is trying to cultivate the perception of workers that they have to make discounts from their real needs, reconcile with extreme poverty, the crusts of social solidarity, poor pensions, hunger, poverty, poverty, unemployment, by not being able to send their child to the nursery or by having to pay superb sums for food. Evidently, SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK avoid this debate, because it is also the hottest, politically and ideologically, at issue, which reveals their strategic identity, which is the state's discharge of the responsibility for child protection and its assignment to individuals, NGOs, volunteering and charity. The deepest targeting, as for all other issues that are today tormenting the people's family, is to disconnect them from the social and economic causes, to cover with an impenetrable veil the cause that creates them, which would be another element of questioning the capitalist system, which the SYRIZA Government and the other parties serve respectfully. Hence the attempt to limit the debate - which is convenient for the government - in Article 8 of the twenty-seven to a total of the conditions for becoming a foster parent and, in fact, for making it possible even for gay couples to become foster parents. In our opinion, with the main criterion of the smooth psychosomatic and social development of children, the JRC expresses its serious reservations about the taking up by gay couples, which is a stepping stone for extending to adoption. We reiterate that, however respectable personal sexual orientation, contrary to unacceptable homophobia and the corresponding racism of various xenophobic, racist, chrysanate groups and perceptions, does not justify the deformation of the parental relationship between the two sexes, whether there is marriage or not, whether it is a product of choice of both sexes or not. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC dares to say everything that the others hide behind their fingers, acronyms between hammer and abdominal, for the causes objectively exacerbating the issue of child protection, which the core is in the very nature of the capitalist system, in this rot, in this disparity that distinguishes it, which produces violence, imperialist wars, refugee, poverty, unemployment and leads to an increase in abandoned and unaccompanied children, who are growing obsessed, such as domestic violence, sexual abuse to children, drug addiction, mental diseases and other problems, with the result that children are being abused, neglected or choose their removal from natural parents or are sent to obstetrics and hospitals, which are currently filled with such children, who are being subjected to public services and are being subjected to resettling. That is why, in our view, it is at least unsuccessful - lenient - the previous position of the Minister, who found that children have not increased to adopt during the period of the capitalist economic crisis. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is exacerbating even more in the years of the crisis, with the intolerability and unemployment, which is reflected to a greater extent in the only parent families from which a significant part of these children come. But let the government, SYRIZA, from where they draw this information, when we all know that public institutions are nonexistent, closed or planted, with a very limited number of children, say there is no record, as well as that the vast majority of the adoptions made are illegal. Where does this evidence come from? Don't you know, for example, about the Bulgarian circuits, Romanians, about the illegal infant sales? Where do you live? Instead of disinforming, let us know what measures the government will take for the fact that in times of crisis the number of couples who wish to have a child is increasing, but it is difficult to give birth to them. On the one hand, it says, there is a multitude of careless couples who wish to adopt, on the other hand, there are few cases of families who wish to become foster families. The lack of information, education and support programmes for families to take on assumption results in families who could ensure an appropriate environment for the time that a child needs not to participate in this process. So the government is fully aware of the situation. But consciously, it does not address the issue of child protection in a substantial way and on the basis of the psychosomatic and social development of children. It is sufficient for these measures to be "qualified" - the registration of children to be taken and adopted, the decongestion of public structures for child protection, the exploitation of private social workers by means of an ECJ and others - which, however, do not question the cause of the problems, simply by taking these problems as data, seeks to reduce the impact of their consequences. No matter what repetitions are made, even if they temporarily soften the pain of children's families, the very nature of capitalism itself, its characteristics are the ones that refreshing, magnify the problem, making the lives of the working folk families even more unbearable, leaving children exposed. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, what our country really needs, our people are another type of economy and power, which is really intended to serve people's needs, where the conditions of life themselves and the rearing of children are considered before all, above all, state responsibility. Only in such a society can children and children without a family be fully guaranteed. For all the above reasons, we, as a JRC, vote 'at present' as a whole for the bill, and, in fact, we shall, in our second language. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been seventy speakers. It's obvious we're going to two meetings. Tonight we'll go at the most by 22.30 p.m. -23.00 p.m. Tomorrow, the second meeting will begin at 10 a.m., with a maximum limit at 14 a.m. Whatever procedure, i.e., if it arises, he can't go after 14:00. If the matter arises, the maximum limit will be at 14.00 hours. We continue with these data and time frames. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Petroupoli High School (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Lazarides has the floor by the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to become a contractor is a life decision and certainly a child's life. It means supporting a child and his family with a view to achieving lasting improvements in the quality of their everyday lives and in general of their lives. Unfortunately, in modern Greece, abandoned infants hosted in institutions, born from single mothers, drug users or parents who simply do not realize their role and leave their own children, are growing. This unpleasant development has brought the government to study and table a new bill to strengthen the institution of assumption in law and financial terms. The essence of the bill is that it speeds up the time for adoption and assumption, which is very important and institutionally safeguards the whole process with the aim of trying to protect children for something that we all agree on. We must stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the meetings of the committee responsible were quite useful and that it should also be created in order to produce what we are discussing today in the vote on, as the objections of all parties and the proposals for further improvement of the draft law were discussed. Several of them were heard and inserted into the deposited text. After all, the joint conclusion almost all of which was drawn up is the need to gradually destabilise children, dismantle the institutions and speed up procedures for their childbirth or assumption. As far as our position is concerned, this has already been expressed. Our view is that becoming a contractor is a life-threatening decision and surely it is decisive for a child's life, which will strengthen quality in his everyday life and help him evolve in his course in society. The role of assumption is very important as an institution for child protection. However, a great deal of attention and serious preparation is needed both in terms of a scientific and directional approach and in particular in terms of candidate contractors. For this reason, the Independent Greeks are calling for the adoption procedures to be strengthened, especially for very small ages of children and, as far as possible, for childcare to be preferred in all cases, when criteria and conditions allow it, by abbreviation of the procedures, which is imposed by current needs. But we have also expressed our opposition. With regard to Article 8 of the draft law, the Independent Greeks have stated that any form of adoption or assumption by homosexual couples who have been united under the cohabitation pact finds us opposing, as in addition to the other contradictions as we have expressed them, we consider it to be another step for adoption, which we want to prevent. Apart from the party's position, we think that, as the research has shown, we are expressing the view of society. We are all aware of the circumstances in the juvenile institutions, and we consider it imperative that these children be dismantled. This, however, must be done by modernising their legal framework and not by the detriment of their smooth and uninterrupted psychosomatic development. I should like to refer here to a point of order and to focus on a point of view tabled by a colleague. I am not going to mention the party, because here we are talking about protecting children, about the smooth development of children, and this is a prerequisite, not any party controversy. My colleague spoke earlier about the rights of some people, some couples, and so on. Of course, they also have these rights, but what prevails and is above all children's rights. Here, the need for this bill is precisely the protection, promotion and safeguarding of children's rights and their smooth development. It is strongly expressed in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, the general opposition to the provision that enables homosexual couples to apply for and become foster parents, as it endangers the right of the minor child to shape and complete his personality and psychosomatic development freely and makes this child vulnerable to possible social reactions, which the Independent Greeks do not overlook. All respectful, therefore, but we are opposed to Article 8 and the possibility that homosexual couples may be asked for and become foster parents. With regard to the provisions on the procedure for the suspension of candidates and of the selection, three electronic registers held in the HR: Minors’ Register, Applicant’s and Parent’s Register, Register of Approved Assignments and Adoption. We consider it to be a party - and we have expressed it since the first meeting - that it should be a single body that conducts research and education issues in adoption and that the division of these services into various bodies is negative for the candidate parents, but also for their control by the competent authorities. Our proposal is to unify the registers, which will illustrate the picture with possible changes, such as lifting the assumption, at the same time and with greater security and, in particular, by immediately updating the data, so that the state is aware of the exact number of children present in the institutions or who are given for assumption and adoption, the exact number of candidate parents as well as professional contractors, and in particular to know changes in their origin. It must be done, Minister, an effort in this direction as costly or time-consuming as possible. As regards the subsequent process for the completion of the assumption or adoption, three safety differences are required: two social checks and the successful follow-up of a training programme, which are considered necessary. The fact that this is the first time not only for contractors but also for potential fostering parents is innovative and necessary for the right attitude and behaviour towards children, especially for the first period of their reception and cohabitation with their new family. However, something like that must be ensured as a state, as well as a specialised service staff, because they themselves need guidance to be able to meet the new requirements, which we must, Minister, make it compulsory. This support beyond quality with their proper education may also have to be numerical, with the support of the staff who will be called upon to run the take-up cases. Here we see a central body for child protection is set up, the National Admission and Adoption Council, which will provide advisory support to children's protection bodies, resolve any problems of interpretation of the law and oversee the application of the institutions of assumption and adoption. In other words, we see that the associated design to check after the assumption is introduced. Not only that, but the body responsible for the supervision of admission is also obliged every six months to draw up a report and send it to the competent prosecutor. We are, of course, in agreement with this, but the Independent Greeks also consider it necessary to increase the number of juveniles for the legal protection and care of children, as supervision will be strengthened and to ensure immediate intervention in cases of withdrawal of admission. With regard to the professional assumption, it is a new entrant which is not yet in force in Greece and according to it there will be contractors for payment. We are also concerned here, because there is no previous experience, and that is why we are calling for the reinforcement of the prosecutors of minors, who will intervene immediately when the role of assumption is not fulfilled and will guarantee that children are not affected. We think it would be more effective to have organised services per county staffed or co-operating with multidisciplinary groups, which will take into account what is best for each child. And above all, we insist on the institution of adoption. We want to strengthen the institution of adoption with short and binding deadlines for providing the necessary consent of natural parents, checking the qualifications and suitability of candidates for parents and contractors, and for adopting the relevant judicial decisions in a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, with these proposals, we believe that this important legislative initiative is being strengthened and even more shielded. The development of neglected or orphaned children, their adaptation to society, and their well-being, necessarily requires state aid when natural persons do not respond to their parental role, but must be done in clear context and with due care in order not to disturb their healthy development, nor to disturb social cohesion. The abused, abandoned, neglected and orphaned children are all our children. Their development and development has a direct bearing on our lives too, it is our hope for tomorrow and we must stand by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Petropolis High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker from the river Mr Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The main purpose of this legislation: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions" is to destabilise children who are in the various institutions, not because they are not well in institutions and structures, but because the best institution cannot substitute the family's hug to a child's soul. In Vouliagmeni, on the hill above the plaza of "Asteras", there is the Church Orphanage of Vouliagmeni in an idyllic landscape - you will have seen it with those who have passed - with the imposing stone buildings dating back to 1920. But I saw it in the eyes of these children - we attended there for many years - that even this jealous environment could not replace family care and delight in their souls. I say this in order to stress that dematerialization has nothing to do with institutions - indulgences such as those written by Charles Dickens. As good as it is an institution, however good it may have, it will never replace the family environment, the hug, the care, the care of the family. So dismantling and, unfortunately, the publicity lights have fallen into Article 8, unjustified by the other important provisions. So I leave Article 8 for the end and go to the other parts of the bill. We have made our criticisms and remarks to the committee. Several have been heard and some remain for clarification, such as the last paragraph of Article 8, which refers to the validity of the conditions and may even cause the withdrawal of the assumption if someone loses his job. Or, like Article 12, which refers to benefits and facilities to fostering parents and is slightly in conflict with Article 8, since, in accordance with Article 8 (2) (d) of Article 8, a condition for the taking up of a minor is that fostering parents be able to cover the basic costs of nutrition, education and medical care of the fostering child by providing sufficient financial resources to that effect and by paying personal attention. I have also asked the committees whether it is a little problem to say that they are prioritised and that these children are at school free of charge without setting any income criteria. We must also see age limits - and adapt them to our times - between the contractor and the child. And a more general practice of good legislation, which I always draw attention to in the bills and is missing from this - and I told the Committee to the Minister - is that whenever we have regulations and are provided for by the law, ministerial or joint ministerial decisions, it will be good to have a deadline so that there is a pressure on the administration to issue them. Otherwise, we legislate and then it is up to the officials to make good when the provisions on the application of legislation are to be implemented. And this bill is not an exception: it refers to seven ministerial decisions, six joint ministerial decisions, but no timetable. And so a proper piece of legislation can be put into application. Article 8, as we said, singled out the interest. The reason for this was that it allows for the assumption of persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, so they may also be homogeneous. This triggered the conservative reflectives of our society, leading to excesses. Association by gay couples is a possibility that will be judged by an ad hoc expert, just as he will judge the suitability of married couples, heterosexual couples with a cohabitation agreement, individual individuals, relatives, etc. In fact, the new improved version was further clarified as it left the prioritization which existed and entered the expression 'the choice between more candidates will be made in the interests of the minor in the light of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child'. Whether he is a heterosexual, or a couple, the child is told that research will develop properly if in this family he finds love and care. This is why candidate contractors will be judged for their mental and emotional availability and not for their sexual orientation. We have seen and read extensive dialogue on the issue over the last few days with the question of whether homosexuals can be the same good parents as heterosexuals. Yesterday, eighty-three - the past few days were fifty-five - psychology teachers submitted their positive scientific opinion on the subject. The American Psychologists' Association has had a resolution on this since 2004. Europe has decided on this for years. The Greek Committee on Human Rights agrees. The report of our Parliament's Scientific Service says 'no' to discrimination. At this point let me say something that might surprise you, but it must be said. I would also like to welcome the Hierarchy's attitude to this bill. I would like to explain: I welcome it not because it has agreed. The Church disagreed with this article. The representative of the Holy Synod, who we heard at the hearing of the bodies, said that it is not so much the issue of gay and heterogeneous couples, but mainly disagrees on the issue of assumption by people who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, which considers it a loose institution in relation to marriage. I may not agree with this view, but I respect it, as I respect and welcome the way in which the hierarchy handled the issue, at institutional level, with arguments, without screaming, without screaming, of a dialogue as it should be, without a complaint, without any extremism, without extreme voices as we had - you will remember - in the recent past. And that is what I think we should all welcome. But let's get back to the kids. Some say that children with foster couples will accept bullying. First of all, I think that those who claim that children with foster parents will accept bullying, unwittingly, obviously, are pushing the ground for this stigmatisation and that is something we should all avoid. Other politicians claim that our society is not yet ready. But the easy thing for a politician is to follow public opinion. The hard part is driving her. But it's usually the hard part. We are a conservative society, and this has nothing to do with left-hand or centre-right parties, but with our attitude to change. We are skeptical, suspicious of the young, who in the words all publish and invoke it, but in practice most spend it. Take a look around you. What opportunities, what do we trust young people? How easily do we break molds to create new, adapted in our time? Many say that Article 8 and the assumption by homosexual couples is too progressive for Greek society. However, the Greek society is rather too conservative - and I would say that it is also misinformed - and it is difficult to put the rights and interests of children above its prejudices and stereotypes. Also, rights cannot be a matter of majority voting, so that the majority can limit individual rights, like stereotypes and prejudices, cannot restrict the real interest and rights of children. We have heard this from far more experienced politicians like Mr Venizelos and Mrs Bakoyannis. In Article 8, therefore, our compass must be the rights and interests of children and not the prejudices of a portion of society. So because the Potami was raised from the outset the burden for Article 8, and thanks to this it was passed by the committee when everyone expected to see where the thing was going, because the Potami took the place, they cast a lot of bile calling it "decline", "the willing river", "the useful idiots" etc. "approved" journalists, columns, websites, Internet trolls, i.e. everyone who is the famous polar slogan of Mr. Tsipras "or we finish them or they end us" have turned it into "or you will eat them or eat them". Let us make it clear, then, that we in these disastrous policies of polarization do not "smack", do not quantify ourselves. As we have shown many times, our attitude to rights is not a kart, depending on what ANELs are voting on and what is not. We consider the rights too serious a case to be left to Mr. Kammenos. The credibility of an area is judged by its principles and how much water it puts into its principles according to the political context. We, very well or badly, do not have irritated principles. But let me point out here also a hypocrisy, the hypocrisy of SYRIZA. I'm sure the SYRIZA government alliance doesn't mean they're in agreement. They agree on some key priorities, as both hugged. And rights aren't top priority for SYRIZA? And if so, how does he work with someone who's smacking them? So this is the great hypocrisy, saying that rights are a priority for you and your actions to prove that in the end it is the maintenance of power. Do not vote to expose them, some say. Let's see that, too. Let us say that the relevant bills and articles are not passed, because part of the Representation, although it agrees, does not vote for them to expose the government. What's gonna happen? SYRIZA will be heroised, saying "I brought it, I did what I could, but these pseudo-progressors did back, finding the ANELs pretext, which we know from the outset they didn't vote for." On the other hand, Mr Kammenos will be pleased, because thanks to his attitude, he prevented something that his constituents did not want and that he can take them off. Who's missing? First, the opposition, which will be charged with violating its principles for micro-political designs and loses a part of the progressive audience that is usually in the center and is what is being ambiguous every time and of course loses and the part of society that these provisions would improve his life. Even if they are minority groups. The rights are not measured according to how many ‘gulls’ are involved. So if anyone thinks he's rocking the collapsing chair from non-voting such bills, it's wrong. And note the contradiction: on the one hand he blames SYRIZA for being immoral, irresponsible, opportunist, he has no principles and, on the other, you expect moral, responsible behavior and honesty to ruin them with his partner and leave the chair if he does not pass an article or a bill. Or one will either. By voting for these bills, then, we are not backing SYRIZA. We are making mistakes to all those who are waiting for a solution to their problems now and not to a second political presence, which is where we do not know whether or not they will be solved. After all, we have so many issues to oppose the SYRIZA and, indeed, the opposition of a substance, which shakes the other side, not the opposition of the crib and the 'no' to everything, which rallys on the other side. I close this subject by saying this. Ladies and gentlemen, will we give Mr Kammens the keys to society's rights and tomorrow's keys to national issues? This House is not about micro-policy on the back of society. If it was a proposal of confidence in the government, we wouldn't vote for it. These articles, however, are a proposal of confidence in the rights of society and we say yes to that. So no matter which government brings them, we put the rights above late political plans and the two-three-day headlines. We may not have the means to display this, we may not have headlines, broadcasts and sponsorships, we may be hit from both left and right, but we know within us that we are playing a key role in changing things and not staying real estate until society is ready, which if anyone never dares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr Mavrota. Mr. Fokas, special speaker from the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all in this Chamber I think we should have as our main concern ensuring that children have better choices of life and development than those provided by an institution. That should be the objective of the bill we are discussing today. However, as is apparent from previous discussions, this is not the case for the Government. On the contrary, the aim of the government is to support its own pragmatic progressiveity, notwithstanding the fact that children living with foster parents will be stigmatized and experienced a new isolation. You seem not to understand, for once, the consequences of your actions, your extreme perceptions, your statutes, which often run counter to common sense and human emotion. Sovereign and primary is the right of the child and his proper mental and physical development, as well as the strengthening of the institution of the family. The Centro Association, consistent in this regard, will not get tired of repeating it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking here about establishing rights of children of the same sex, but about the rights of minors, who at all times seem to be defending them in this bill and, in particular, Article 8, which allows children to be taken up by gay couples. I am afraid the way opens for adoption by the provision. We had foreseen this from the Cohabitation Pact bill, that other bills will be followed that will allow children to be awarded and adopted by homosexual couples. Each adult obviously has the right to self-determination and to the lifestyle he chooses. But children don't choose their parents. The state should be here to ensure these children who are in institutions and to ensure a better future. According to a series of surveys, more important factors in children’s health adaptability and development are the quality of parent-child relationships, the quality of relations between parents and economics and other resources at their disposal. It is understood that alpha and omega for the proper socialization of a person is the family. It is the family that sucks children, which shapes their personality, which gives values and principles, which creates the foundations of the character that will accompany them all their lives. Consequently, assumption and adoption, which are the core of this draft law, should contribute to the healthy psychosomatic development of children. That is why it is necessary to grow up in a family context with a father-mother relationship. Undoubtedly, the main issue of any assumption and adoption is the needs of each child. Within the ravine of the problems that currently afflict our country, you are creating another issue in order to disorientate public opinion. You look like the "bugs" that dissolve everything, motivated by their ideas. You are constantly opening up new issues, but without being able to complete any of your actions or policies. You create impressions while you are on a runway in order to stay with nails and teeth on the chair of authority, no matter what the effects of your actions. In this context you are trying to strengthen the tank of your voters by closing the eye on a very small proportion of citizens. The reality proves that the vast majority of society opposes the assumption of children by homosexual couples, whose course is unknown what paths will follow. Why are you seeking to go against each other, indifferent to public opinion for the last time, especially at this time? You seem to be indifferent to the possible reactions of social surroundings and laughter, especially of school, to children growing up with foster homosexuals. Do you think such a choice is pedagogical? You do not care that such an operation needs huge psychological support, which, unfortunately, we have not achieved yet in Greece. You don't care about the bullying that these children will face and the consequences that this day's witnessing life will have for their psyche. As long as you are pressed by the conditions you yourself have created, as long as your days as rulers are reduced, the more you will be entering the process of giving birth to new incidents on the ravine of suffering caused to the citizens by your stay in power. You live in your world, in that of power, propaganda and enforcement, and you do not care about the daily life of the citizen, who is being beaten by overtaxation. You show a great deal of apathy for the anxiety of young people who do not find work, for workers who are unable to do so, for retired people who are struggling for the new cuts in their pensions. We are the only country we have capital controls, which is a thorn for the business world, which you face with suspicion and at the same time as the fat cow, by taking any revenue you may have. Citizens and professionals pay increased VAT everywhere. All this for the sake of the budgetary bubble of surpluses, which added the clean exit candy, while measures have already been taken for the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, we must tell the Greek people the truth: on 20 August we are not coming out of the memoranda. On 20 August, funding by the partners in the European Union ceases. We stop taking cheap money and have to go out on the markets, borrow at multiple interest rates. The memorials remain here. Our obligations vis-à-vis the Memorandums are here: pension reductions from 1-1-2019, a surplus of 3.5% over the next few years, a superstition to make use of public property for the next ninety-nine years. And we're not done. At the same time, you contribute to a difficult chaos about the scorpion that you opened up, as if it were a simple lot of poker. We do not want to join the European Union or NATO. The state of Macedonia wants to enter the European Union and NATO. They must beg Greece to help them. The state of Skopje wants to enter the European Union. To help them, but without delivering our story, our name. Macedonia is Greece and Greece is Macedonia. That was called four hundred thousand Greeks at the rally of Thessaloniki. In Athens they gathered one and a half million Greeks to defend the name "Macedonia". But even for the Greek-Turkish fascist and illusion, when the two partners do not even have a public opinion. How can the Greek citizen feel security when you daily undo yourself when you open up new issues and create new enemies when following a high-risk strategy without knowing of strategy? Do you still think citizens don't understand your communication hypocrisy? If so, you're definitely deceiving. It's not the first time this has happened to you. You have been living this since the first seven months of 2015 and you continue in the same tébo. The position of the Central Association is one and clear: stop disorientating public opinion, as you are trying in many ways with Article 8. We won't follow you in this tactic. We are voting against in principle, we are voting against all Articles one by one, and we ask the Minister to withdraw Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u21	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important bill today and it seems from the way all parties are placed. Today's bill, first of all, bridges two desires that run across the Greek society: the desire of thousands of children in institutions to find a warm hug and a home to welcome them and the desire of thousands of couples and individual individuals to offer it in either form of assumption or adoption - childcare. All scientific opinions - social workers, teachers, child psychiatrists, sociologists and psychologists - converge that every day a child passes to an institution, no matter how good it is, they are harmful to his mental and mental health and condition. The social and scientific bodies said in the consultation that took place in the House that the child is damaged within the institution, which follows it throughout his life, and especially the young children up to three years old, who are entering the institution from the beginning. What brings children to the foundations? The representative of the JRC also wondered. The domestic violence, the death, the absence of one parent, the helplessness of the other, the tolerance, phenomena over time, in and out of capitalism, we say. Is there any disagreement on that? How many children are in institutions today, private-law legal persons and public-law? Unfortunately, the state does not have that mechanism today - although we have set it up since last year, with a specific bill - which tracks every day every child is in, when he enters, for what reasons, etc. There is still an incomplete effort for the institutions. So we have no picture of those mechanisms to control a child’s movement. Within a month and a half of its operation, there will be an e-mail for the child. I'm not saying since the bill was passed, I'm saying from function. And I'm not hiding behind my finger. The law will require five to six months for its implementation, its operation. They need electronic registers, they need to give all its digitalised system to all the institutions, they need to make national registers, they really need to make joint ministerial decisions and ministerial decisions. We have, however, demonstrated that we are on time in all of this when we promise, as we have done many times in Parliament. So it will work this year. A month and a half from its operation, there will be an e-mail for the child. That's how we'll know. In other words, once the child enters the institution, his electronic file will be created that will be kept in the institution's electronic register, but there will be also in the National Register of Minors, established. What does that mean? It means something very important, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you think this bill does not bring new things. It means that no child can be given for assumption or adoption without compiling and raising his file in the electronic national and specific registers. This means that when the child gets grown up and wants to find its roots, he will have direct access to this online register and therefore will stop great tragedies, wounds and anxiety. So we guarantee the future and take care of the present. What do I mean by that? The future will be guaranteed for these children. Today, however, too many adults are looking for their roots. So, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, I say here today, that we will create the digitisation of all the files in the first instances and in the courts. Today's bill does a second thing. It attempts to end a psycho-corruption wait four to six years, many times - as you yourself said in committee - and eight years and so on, a waiting that creates great dramas and dead ends to the prospective fostering or fostering parents, increases adoptions - and, of course, we know, Mr Synergyki - from foreign countries and feeds the trade in infants. With this bill, waiting for ascensions will end in eight to twelve months, and only the procedure, which we hope - again in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice - will be pending. So it's changing the scenery. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Why was there a huge wait? Not because on SYRIZA the social state you've built before was plunged down. Unfortunately, we received forty social workers in social protection centres and forty others in the regions. These were the only two public bodies that could put social workers to the exhibition. That's why people waited all these years. How do we solve this? We are broadening this House. Firstly, we put social workers, civil servants in the municipalities. Secondly, with the large tank of the Association of Social Workers of Greece. So what's SKLAE? It is a legal person governed by public law - which you voted on and did it under public law last year, namely the TEU, the Bar Association, etc. - with thousands of members, since he grants a licence to pursue a profession, with twelve regional departments and, of course, with disciplinary boards and so on. He will create the Body of Certified Social Officers, a body with officials who will be certified by specific examinations and special procedure. This huge tank will now create the new situation so that all procedures can be accomplished. Was that somewhere? There was no, you know that. So we're safely speeding up the procedures. A third innovation of this bill, which perhaps has not been made clear again, is that it for the first time in Greece has established a clear and uniform procedure, a common procedure, for the suitability of the couple, whether it is the assumption or whether it is the adoption. That really took us two years. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I have asked for fifteen to twenty minutes instead of ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u23	There will be a slight tolerance, Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. So that took us two years, because we had to match two different legislative frameworks: on the one hand, the Civil Code with other adoption procedures and on the other, the legislation on assumptions. That was very difficult. I mean, it was a common process. What does that mean? Assuming, as you know, is a notarial act, while in order for the Civil Code to be reviewed it takes two or three years and the whole process raises it, the Ministry of Justice starts it. Here I would like to mention the great difference in acceptance - adoption - because I believe that a large part of the debate in society, fear, objections, etc. is based on the ignorance of what the institution of admission is. Assumption is an act in which the child doesn't come to you with a situation in which he will always stay to you. On the contrary, the child has to be in contact with his natural parent from the first moment and if he ever wants to go to his physical family, he can go. Therefore, in my opinion, assumption is an act of exceptional generosity, of exceptional altruism, an act that changes man himself. He won't lose the child. The child will always refer to him as his parent, because he raised him in most of his life and in the difficult time of his life. And that will be collected forever by the parent. That's why I'm telling everyone: Look at the assumption. Go in that direction, it's very important! That is why we are creating the professional assumption, an even more specific situation. In other words, their foster parents are further trained so that they can become professional contractors. What does that mean? It means that not a single child, who nobody asks, can stay inside the foundation. For example, children with disabilities have difficulties either going to foster families or to viewers. So we're creating the institution of professional assumption. Secondly, the child, the baby born and staying in the maternity ward, can be immediately taken by the professional contractor to wait until someone adopts it or becomes a contractor. I think, then, that professional assumptions are of enormous importance. I have spoken about a single procedure either in one or the other. It will not be possible to become a contractor or a fosterer or a foster parent unless it does this single procedure. That's new. And I think that's excellent. What's the procedure? It goes to the couple, either in the social protection centres of the regions or in the services of the regions, and makes an electronic request. Once she makes the e-mail application, she goes up in the special register of these two operators. They're public bodies and they're all over Greece. Immediately afterwards, the procedure that I have explained is defined as the social worker. If one has not, it shall be borrowed from the other at specific intervals. Three and a half months later to do the show. As soon as the report is done, it's going up to the special record. And then we give him generosity lessons. And that's new. It'll be short-lived. Immediately afterwards he goes to the National Parent Register. Once he goes up to the National Parents Register and because we have the National Minors Register, as I said before, the child's electronic file, that is, we know where the children are and we know where the parents are. So they can be directed. They're heading for the areas that exist. And as soon as they locate the child with the advice of the specialists, the psychologists, then the second social check takes place, the second social report that is the matching of the prospective parent with the child. The second report is done in the same way as I mentioned before, on the same strict dates, quarters. So the procedure is six months and not nine months. So, six months is the process plus education, which can be all over a month together. That is why we have been talking for eight to twelve months to complete this process clearly. And when this process is over, what happens next? In the case of an assumption, the notary act shall be placed in the registers of authorised assigns and supervision shall commence. Supervision is strict. It is for two or three years and it has not only reports every month, but also extraordinary reports. There has never been such clarity and determination of this whole process and control. This is a gift to society. It's a gift for all of us and for the children. This improper, clean, scientifically valid procedure will be done clearly and clearly. It'll be known to everyone. There are no more strange paths. There is a mandatory procedure. And that's what I think is new. So it is estimated in every step - all the steps I have described - the suitability of the parent candidate and not his sexual orientation, especially for assumption. Not for adoption, because, as I said, this, unfortunately, falls under the Civil Code and cannot be done. We are therefore giving this right to heterogeneous and homogeneous couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, to be judged by the same procedure, as are couples who have concluded political or religious marriages, as well as individual ones. All these procedures I have described are supervised by a collective consultative, advisory body, the ESY, the National Assurance and Adoption Council, which comes under the Ministry of Labour, in the portfolio of social solidarity. What's the RESANY doing? The ESY monitors, advises, promotes the dissemination of the two institutions of acceptance and adoption, coordinates the stakeholders, defines the content of the genitality courses and the qualifications of trainers, but primarily promotes the two institutions in society. That's his job. He's got skilled people, and that's what he does. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Article 8 highlighted important aspects of the draft law. He highlighted the ignorance of what the assumption is, the ignorance of scientific opinions about gender formation. And here we had the opinion of sixty-four academic experts who assure all the world investigations that the child's gender formation is not dependent on parental sexual orientation, as many people might think. It's wrong. He highlighted the ignorance of our legal culture, where the Scientific Council of Parliament considers that discrimination is not permitted. Mostly, however, he showed fear for the other, for the one we don't know. This fear is only being fought with knowledge and this is the only way to break racism, discrimination and homophobia. It doesn't break otherwise, just knowledge. So I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the House will be lifted to the occasion and that it will pave a way for all Greek citizens and children. SYRIZA's social plan refuses any social exclusion. We must be wise and bold in social rights. Our predecessors in this Chamber dared by their vote to the women...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u25	Please very much, Mrs. Fotio, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u26	I'll be done. They daring for political marriage, daring for the legalization of abortions, the coexistence pact and recently the identity of the gender. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are all taking a step together today, not boldly, but a step for sure that our society needs, a step that opens new horizons. They will follow the next steps. Let me tell you this on this occasion too. Two steps will be taken in 2018: the National Strategy of Disinsurance that our country needs and the new framework law on the institutions of the country. So we are sending a message to society today: no child in institutions! Open your hug for children, welcome them, learn from them, change through them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u27	In view of the fact that it was a special issue and handled at the Ministry level, Mrs Fotou agreed that this tolerance should be doubled. I would remind you, however, that you are sixty-nine colleagues. From what the President informed me, tomorrow at 4 p.m. the meeting will be closed. If you all want to talk, please keep the time. Now for reasons which we all know, despite the fact that it is not his turn, you will allow me to give the floor to Mr Kourakis. Mr Haritsis will then speak to support his amendment for three minutes. Then we begin five colleagues, a parliamentary representative. Two parliamentary representatives have already said. Here, Mr. Kourakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which is about to regulate the most sensitive aspect, the core of public policies on child protection, that is, the issues of adoption and assumption. Obviously these issues are burdened with social and psychological dimensions, which make them extremely sensitive not only in relation to social perceptions but also at the level of legislating. In this context, a key concern of the bill is to enhance transparency, to create the data-processing databases of the National Register of Minors and the National Registers of Candidates and Approved Parents, as well as of the Interconnected Registers, which is a huge project, which will accelerate and shield the procedures. Secondly, I would like to stress that this draft law, both on the issue of adoption and on the issue of assumption, emphasises a very specific objective, that of decoupling children. This objective is key and critical for the child's normal psychosocial development. I will not agree with the rapporteur of the Communist Party who claims that the state structures - they may be sufficiently staffed, of course - are greater than a foster family or the one adopted by a child. The personal relationship that the child develops with the parent is irreplaceable. So what this bill does is to coordinate all actors in this direction. The third major objective is to speed up procedures. A key point in this issue, apart from digitisation of the registers, is the acceleration of social research through the possibility of assigning social workers to the Association of Social Workers of Greece. I would now like to come to the provisions of Article 5 relating to the National Register of Minors and the inclusion in it of unaccompanied minors. This is, in fact, a huge arrangement for including those children who, pushed by war or other tragic circumstances, are in our country and are part of the organic nature of our new generation. There have been incomprehensible and extreme things in this Chamber, unfortunately, about the pain of the Greek genus by this provision. It must be said, ladies and gentlemen, to all tons that the state must take care of these children because they are its children. The protection of these children through their hospitality in the appropriate structures is the first task. The next step is to include them in the framework for the assumption and effort of a family and for them. I would like to close my position in the bill with a reference to Article 8, that is, the article extending the right to take over and to couples with a cohabitation agreement, homogeneous and heterogeneous. I mean, you're not born, you're done. I have heard some colleagues claim that a child with homosexual foster parents is threatened by psychiatric disorders, such as others describing gay couples as mentally ill people or perceive the sexual choice as a diversion and defending racially stereotypes of confusing children with two moms, with two dads, as they heard. I think it's time to get away from such a scandalous perception. The family balance is not dependent on whether the individuals who make it are homogeneous or heterogeneous or if the family is monogenic. I believe that love, position and devotion to children taken over by families who adopt or are fostering parents is the only criterion for this family to be appropriate. Nor of course depends - because this has also been heard - on the look of others towards a child whose assumption is assigned to a homosexual couple. We have already heard at the hearing of the parents' associations who have children from a previous heterosexual relationship say that at school the bowling is mostly done by children who are close, fat but not by the sexual orientation of their parents. Sexual choice, therefore, is not related to one’s ability to provide a child with the safe framework it needs. Sexual choice is not a condition. It's not an option. It's something that comes up with the person. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll use my capacity as a professor of medicine and pediatrics to tell you that it's not a medical matter, like sociologists should think it's not a sociology issue. It is the result of a complex, multifactorial process, so that some individuals become heterogeneous and some homogeneous. Think it's analogous to the left surgery that the children used to oppress to become right-handed. You don't choose it. It's coming up. I would like to stress, in contrast to the points in the Communist Party's disagreement, that the classic view of the family is not in line with social developments today. We must interpret things forcefully. The models of man and woman, in the context of a nuclear model of the family, do not cover the social reality of today and, unfortunately, refers to the stereotypes of a cruel puritan morality. Are you not telling me, ladies and gentlemen, that you support this nuclear standard, when we have a couple who have one or two children and separates, is there death or disappearance for various reasons, the only parent families cease to be families? Aren't single-parent families? And can't a single-parent family, who can adopt, then conclude a relationship with a homosexual partner? Homosexuality, gender identity in general, is a behavior, as we have said, old age, and we need to escape from a medieval witch hunt in relation to how we understand sexual behavior as a whole. We have also heard at the hearing serious approaches of organisations representing homogeneous couples, but also institutional organisations of child protection highlighting the fact that, in many cases today, homogeneous couples have children, they are already biological parents. We also heard about reality abroad. The case of Italy, where thousands of children live with homosexual couples, while the mental health institutions also stressed that there is no connection between parental sexual orientation and the mental health of children or their psychosocial development. So we should redefined our references to this issue and listen to the institutions who have told us are that we do not go far enough on this issue, calling for us to open up this debate even further in relation to adoption. I appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue is mature and society asks us to move faster, as we have done in the recent past on the issues of citizenship, the symbiosis pact or gender identity, and finally to escape from horrific and stereotypical concepts and references. So we have to say it clearly. Yes, the conditions are mature to move forward in realising equality in relation to sexual orientation. Madam Minister, you said that we should proceed in an inclusive manner. I would therefore say that, in terms of civil marriage and childbirth, it is time to move quickly on in the revision of the Civil Code and to establish not just a policy of destabilising children, which is, of course, very important, but also something else. It is important that we enter into civil law the right to marriage and to the adoption of gay couples, for the complete removal of obstacles to equal treatment of homosexuals, really without exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 26th Trikalon Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor. You can speak from your position. You don't have to come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I would like to say that this is an amendment which provides for the possibility of setting up an intermediate management body for the State aid actions of the NSRP, as well as for the national resources of the Public Investment Programme. This is a technical regulation which, however, is very substantial, as it enables the regions, in particular, which have so far not proceeded with the proclamation of actions to assist small and medium-sized enterprises, to proceed with the definition of the PSC, the Intermediate Body of Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship Programmes, which is already being used in the national programmes of the NRP with this role, so that the relevant invitations to tender for small and medium-sized enterprises can proceed very quickly in the thirteen regions of the country. At the same time, this regulation will be used - as I have said - for the funds provided for in the national part of the Public Investment Programme, in particular in the regulation which will come to Parliament very shortly to vote on the introduction of the transport equivalent on the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u31	Me too, Minister. You were extremely short. I am now recognizing the first five minutes: Mr. Karagiannidis, Mrs. Karamanlis, Mr. Barriotas, Mr. Kasidiaris, Mr. Lambroulis. After the word, Mr. Amyras will be taken. After the second five days, Mr. Katsikis, Mr. Danellis, Mr. Saridis, Mr. Theocharis, Mrs. Kerameos and then Mr. Theocharopoulos. After Mr Karayannides, Mrs Papanatsiou will speak - because she is here - to say about her amendment for two minutes. Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. After what the Minister has said about the bill, and after what Tasos Kourakis has said, I think very little can be said. However, I am going to focus on a single point, because it can be unfair in the bill to over-concentrate Article 8, but here we have two opinions and we have to say so. There is a perception - which, unfortunately, meets two political groups, in contrast to others - that says that children can grow healthyly in institutions. And there is the other concept that says that in a family environment children can be children and grow healthy. The second supports this bill. The second is not only SYRIZA, but - I think - the majority of society. The other argument I shall make is as follows. When bills relating to social groups come, we should theoretically listen to them what they say. It says, therefore, that Colour Youth for the New Democracy and take note of it, because it reflects the whole of the LGBTK community in what they say: 'The actions and policies that have been followed in the past by Mr Mitsotakis, with the meetings and statements, come to uncover the so-called European orientation that the New Democracy publishes with so much study, choosing to ignore - as it seems - the seventeen of the eight countries of the European Union have established without problems the education for homosexual couples. And the scientific reason and the investigations invoked by the officials of the New Democracy, trying to maintain some progressive figures, came to be disproved in the most emphatic way by a letter of fifty-five academics." I'm making a bridge because you're supporters of excellence and academics and science. When you don't like what scientists say, you just don't listen to them. So these fifty-five academics say something that is not theirs, but it is proof from the scientific community. The review of the relevant scientific literature reaches the clear conclusion that parental sexual orientation does not have a measurable impact on the quality of parent-child relationships in children's mental health. If you want to hear it, they call it scientists. People don't call it private. And I come to the JRC which also said the amazing thing: 'These are private views of some people'. I would like to remind the JRC's side that Galilee, about five centuries ago, expressed the view that Earth is round and life was at stake. He did it after study. Also, a hundred and fifty years ago two gentlemen, Carl Marx and Friedrich Engels, sat in Belgium, in Brussels, and wrote a fifty - page, the Communist Manifesto. Private views were written in this booklet. The communist movement, however, was born. If we want to strengthen it, strengthen it with arguments, not by misunderstanding and distorting these things. So scientific opinions are Americans, they are Europeans, they are a Western world, they are - I don't know - capitalism. Everything goes back to capitalism, anyway. But if we want to have an adequate wording of arguments, at least that belongs to the scientific world. I am now going to society that is not ready and has been heard against coron. I shall read, in order not to blame, an amazing text written by Kostis Lieros, a friend. He tells a party of this text: "Those who say it ignore the fact that the relationship between the couples of the same sexes today present a qualitative difference over the previous decades. These people today do not intend to live in darkness. Couples of all orientations and shades live together for many years and for many of them the acquisition of children, if it is not already a reality, is a conscious part of their family planning. The opinion of each of the political executives, who perceives themselves as a wheelchair in the lives of others and raises the marginal anachronistic views in unscrupulous qualities of an electoral clientele, is not something we should be indifferent to. It is something the Left was fighting and fighting, and we should fight it with all the forces. The deep-rooted concepts of the body, gender, sexual orientation and family are a reality for all societies. However, the maturity of a society to cope with more modern conditions of reality, to be reversed and eventually to change, is not determined purely and abstractly by the acquired speed of a train coming from the past. Much more the maturity pin has its basic foundation for public opinion, a structure that does not exist beyond some individual measurements. So let us leave the authenticity of supporting society and see what exists in society today." I say this for the following reason: Usually the rain comes out of the rain and when the sun appears. Last Sunday it didn't happen. The "Uranium Arc" at the Academy of Plato made the sixth family holiday "Uranium Arc". Tens of children, dozens of parents were there and informed, discussed and entertained. It's a world that exists. For you there is no rainbow, but there is black and white and shades of gray. You don't want to see the rainbow when it comes out to society. The rainbow, however, is here and all its colors from our side at least are acceptable. I will close with something that has been said by a JRC official, but today he will not come to vote. "We are all potentially, parents only being judged as such by our children." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u33	Mrs Papanatsiou, you have the floor to present your amendment for three minutes from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. It is the amendment with a general number of 1572 and a special number of 111. The first article concerns the amendment of Article 16 of Law 1798/1988. It concerns exemption from traffic charges on vehicles serving minors with disabilities. In particular, it is no longer compulsory to issue a marketing authorisation in the name of the disabled person for the granting of that exemption, since that right may be granted to the parents or the Commissioner and is valid until the adulthood of the disabled person. The second article regulates ADP expenditure issues. In particular, the issues of expenditure carried out by the regional and specific decentralised services of the AACC since the beginning of 2017 and until the adoption of the AACC Commander’s decision on the transfer of powers to financial control services for the expenditure of the regional services and the accreditation act of its own limitation of the AACC’s organisational units, which are separate operational units, shall be regulated. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 21 of the Financial Regulation and Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Also, in the third article with the proposed provisions, cleanliness staff issues are regulated, which have been engaged in the services of AIAE again in the period from 13-12-2017 to 14-3-2018. What's the possibility? It allows for all the exceptional reasons of the public interest to draw up employment lease contracts during and after that period. And the possibility is that expenditure relating to the cleaning of the ADP services will be considered for the period from 13-12-2017 to 14-3-2018 for which the commitment procedure for the appropriations has not been complied with, in order to be able to be paid from the appropriations for the ADP for the current financial year, subject to the conditions of legality and regularity of those expenditure. With regard to the last article: Participation in the secondary committee for the determination of the agialos and beach is for the engraving of the agialos. There is a committee in each county and in exceptional cases there is a second one. In the second, because the staff of the property services are very little, they are given with the same qualities to members again, and they can also be from some other agency in a similar prefecture, etc., in order to complete the work of shaping the sanctuary within the timescales, in which they must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u36	All right, let's go. Just a minute, Mr. Theocharopoulos, there is no such procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u37	The Rules of Procedure say that after the Minister, the Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u38	No, he doesn't say, when it's an amendment, the Rules of Procedure. That's not what the Rules of Procedure say. Let us not invoke the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, for a minute, because I know you will keep it, you have the floor and not because of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u39	Absolutely, Mr President. Minister, first of all - first of all - this practice brings us into a very difficult position and you and the way we legislate. You are bringing an amendment that in some articles, in some paragraphs we agree and in some we disagree. You are bringing an amendment, there are no articles in the bill, so that we cannot deal with it single. Such crucial issues should come to bill articles. Now on substance: You are attempting a series of legalisations of ADI expenditure, regional services, road transport, packages costs, travel expenses for the person employed with cleaning contracts. After the Ministry of Finance cleared its own expenditure with the latest bill, it is now doing the same thing with the ADP's expenditure. We believe that it is extremely problematic for the Ministry to present such a picture. What is going on here, and that is why I want an answer. The commitment procedures shall not be complied with. Expenditure in excess of registered appropriations shall be incurred without compliance with the relevant provisions or with the relevant tax provisions. There is then, basically, an amendment that settles everything. This is not the way the State operates, nor is legal certainty, and I would ask you to reply, both on the substance and on the way, because, for example, in paragraph 1, we agree. In paragraph 2, we do not agree. How can a party of counterpopulation handle this? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u40	Madam Minister, you have the floor for one-and-a-half minutes, if you want to reply too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleague, as far as I am concerned, the expenditure of the AACC is concerned. In fact, because we have a transfer to ADI from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to the independent authority and to the costs, which, until now, could be paid by the regional authorities, are now all done by the central authorities. In that sense, until the whole process was done, the ADP had to function. There couldn't be any costs. All this comes now and we cover it. Also, travel expenses for the permanent delegation to the European Union, costs incurred each time with the elections from 1-1-2014 to 31-12-2016, which you know are too late to reach the services and to be able to make payments. I would also like to mention here that there is no way of being done without documentary evidence. No way! Everything is in the legal way, everything is in accordance with the procedure with the specific appropriations for the ADP. We are not getting out of credit. There are appropriations for the ADP and the corresponding appropriations, and that is how these payments should be completed at some point. There is nothing strange or anything different from the payment of the debts that exist for these people. I would like here to stress that we are really respecting public money and what you would have seen in the results of 2017, public expenditure is reduced by too many millions. It's over 1,200,000,000 reduced. This means that whatever payment is made by us, it is after a lot of thought and a lot of wisdom. We try public money to handle it as well as possible. In this respect, both specific amendments are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u42	All right, let's move on. Parliamentary Second Athens, Mr Anna Karamanlis, has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to remind my colleague Mr Karayannides of the suggestions that he should not do so to New Democracy, but to his colleagues who will vote against Article 8 and, of course, to the ANELs, with whom SYRIZA stands. Ladies and gentlemen, while the government is stepping on all fronts, while the problems are growing and society is boiling, manifesting its wrath, Maximos is attempting to disorientate once again and divide. The purpose of the draft law is to improve the conditions and conditions for adoption and assumption. It is true that the situation in our country is much worse than in other countries. The rate of adoption falls far short of the European average, and the dazzling bureaucratic procedures discourage or prevent people who show interest in adopting or raising a child, so that infants grow stacked in the hospitals of the country and at the same time the trade in infants to bloom. The New Democracy has tabled a concrete package for two years now. On this basis we could co-formulate an adequate institutional framework. Instead, we see an attempt to appear as sectoral and reform things which, in many cases, also apply today. The characteristic is the case of electronic registers, where four of the five already exist. Did it need legislative intervention to turn it into a digital format? Wasn't a simple ministerial decision enough? There is still no regulation on the treatment of delays in the judicial system in order to speed up adoption procedures. The Minister declared unreservedly and referred to the Ministry of Justice. The bill is signed by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Contonis. But, well, for a year and a half, which has announced this bill, has it not been able to reach an agreement with the Ministry responsible and bring in an integrated proposal? As a New Democracy, we insist on the need to intervene in the judiciary, having proposed an increase in the number of prosecutors of minors and an exclusive deadline for the finalisation of the judiciary. Because this is the key to combating bureaucracy, but also corruption in this part. When the procedures cease to be time-consuming and psycho-corruption, then they will be stopped and interested parties will be addressed to the children's trading circuits. In a positive direction, the entry in the register of candidate fostering parents is not enough. In a positive direction there are even other arrangements in the draft law, such as the professional assumption with the safety margins, of course, to prevent children from being exploited, the incentives for contractors and their compulsory alignment. A procedure that could, therefore, be in a climate of absolute consensus is being seducted by communal tricks, through another demonstration of false progression, with issues that our society is conservative and which cannot accept and I am referring to the contested Article 8, which provides for the assumption of children by couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, including homosexual couples. No one denies the need for all children for care and love, let alone when talking about children abandoned or children who are hosted in institutions, for innocent souls who have experienced the hardest face of life very early. And because there are various 'progressive' charges of rhetoric hatred, I must make it clear that of course every citizen's personal choices are completely respected and are not criticised, let alone cause of insulting attacks. On the other hand, however, we cannot consent to the accusations of supposed conservatism. Another is the acceptance of the different sexual orientation and the alteration of the basic cell of Greek society. Another thing is the regulation of legal issues between people of the same sex who have decided to live together another family in the sense that humanity has accepted for centuries. Family is the first institution to contact children. Their first standards are those of the father and mother. And these time-consuming standards of the Greek family are trying to alter them, that is to say, to gradually pass from father and mother to parent and parent B, when in several countries, allowed to take up gay couples, there must also be a person in the family environment of different sex. I would like to focus on the fact that Minister Fotio hastened to assure us that assumptions by homosexual couples will not lead to adoption, perhaps to soften the spirits and absorb vibrations within the government. In this case, however, this distinction between assumption and adoption is indiscriminate, because, apart from the legal part, there are no huge differences in the daily lives of children. In the assumption the child lives and grows with foster parents, with the diligence of natural parents and adoption living and growing with foster parents, who also have custody. It will have the same effect in its psychosis, the same reactions and the same stigmatisation will be faced with his school and social surroundings. Perhaps he will feel disadvantaged when he sees a different cultural reality around him. Is the state ready to support the child against the distrust and rejection that he can get to know? Does it have the appropriate structures and infrastructure in its social services to respond to such conditions? If we are to be judged by what is provided for in Article 26, obviously not. Why, when you confess to the inability of social structures to carry out social research before admission, how will the assumption be followed, the support of the foster family and child? You cannot, Minister, put the lives of some children in the same balance with your micro-political games and of course with your look at the polls. As the government MPs in their letter have pointed out, there are not only the rights of minors but also the rights of minors. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, my conscience dictates the vote against Article 8 of the draft law. I have unlimited respect for my fellow citizen's right to choose the lifestyle that makes him happy, but I have a wholehearted right to support consistently, such as the institution of the family, without compromises and without retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u44	My colleague from the Democratic Association, Mr Constantine Barriotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. We are in the presence of a bill dealing with social rights, a social bill. If they have a common feature, the discussions of this type by this government and by this House are that practically speaking in the same week together with a major political or economic bill. From the very beginning, since the debate on the cohabitation pact, these bills have always coincided in time, but they always follow the discussion either of the implementation of the third memorandum or of other bills or in this case the sale of PPC. It is a permanent governmental tactic to seek to change the political agenda in communication with the use of such bills. It is essentially a tooling of social reforms, a tooling of rights. And this comes from a political party, which, if not the invention, certainly demands the paternity of the human rights movement. And it's not like that. But thus, with the pursuit of adversity and tension, the debate is degraded. In fact, there is a debate which is taking place in terms of maniacs and which divides Parliament into two debates on issues which were normally to be discussed in a conscious, calm and as consensual manner as possible. On the other hand, this kind of reaction and acidity triggers it first the recommendation and the nature of the government itself. "We are with children's rights" I heard more than once in the committees. In that sense, which is put in place by SYRIZA's colleagues, we are from this side and you are from the opposite side. The truth is: Who? I was wondering. SYRIZA alone? Are you with children's rights, all together, as government? Do you introduce the bill as a government? The other partner has been lost when he does not emit hate sermons. It's practically missing. Are you all SYRIZA together? Or are the pasophiles missing in this case? I was only able to comment on the term, which was not by accident in the press, describing the ten colleagues who expressed reservations at least at the beginning of the debate. The immediate result is, as I said, a public debate, irrational, acute, in terms of manhattans, which, fatally, irritates prejudices, fears and conservative reflexes that exist in society. And I am talking about good people who see a worthy system slowly changing and have reasonable reservations. We have seen it - since my little memory - since the decriminalisation of adultery and with the rights that have passed in previous years, gender equality, abortion and so on. Such reactions to society existed. The aim of such a debate should be to reassure and reassurance themselves and not to become more acute and more aggressive. But what has happened in the way these bills have been discussed in recent years is, on the one hand, the emergence of reactions for the first time within the ruling party in terms of rights and social rights. At the same time, it has led and thanks to its policy of atmosphericity, I must confess to the silence of the liberal voices that existed up to and including in New Democracy, leaving the principles of social liberalism really defenceless on that side and showing a hard, slowly over-conservative face. I will not comment on things I have heard over the last few days and, indeed, despite Mrs Marcos' efforts, I have heard things that I do not want to replicate. We're all with children's rights. We need to discuss children's rights. And we must also discuss the rights of minorities, the freedom of individuals, the rights of individuals, self-determination, etc. It has been up to the principles established by a century, at least, of racing, social liberalism in Europe, on the European continent for many years now - and, if you like, back to John the Coast. That is the European tradition, and that is what we must stand on. The tradition of defending individual freedoms and rights. The work of social rights does not offer this process. The debate without prejudice is what we must always pursue. And, unfortunately, this is not the case. To go back to the famous Article 8, for which, in my opinion, the whole debate was not really a reform of any kind, but none at all. There is nothing in the existing legislative framework - and, in my opinion, quite rightly - that prohibits the taking up of children on the basis of sexual orientation, gender, race, origin or anything else. It doesn't exist and it doesn't exist. Nor can it - and we must tell the Greek people - any such provision either in Greek, legal culture or much more in European tradition. It is something that is simply inconsistent with morality, with the spirit, if you like, of our day, in the part of the world in which we have been engaged and have tried to integrate in many ways over the last fifty years. It runs counter to the European authorities of any segregation based on racial, sexual or ethnic issues. Article 8, however, in the way it has improved and after our own intervention, is an article which helps - as in general the bill - a man in the area of assumption, modernizes it, makes it easier. We shall vote on this after the improvements made by Mrs Fotio in the interests of children, which is a given one, have been adopted. I will not repeat what much has been said about how much better children are raised outside institutions. It is something we have come up with for many years now. With this logic, with the logic of an effort that modernises and improves the existing legal framework - and there is no big reform - which improves the points of a legal framework, an institutional framework that has problems, we have approached it and made proposals. They were partly accepted, because this is how these draft laws should be discussed, and for this kind of article, we stressed that, as far as we could, the substance lies on the one hand in speeding up the process, which is in the hands of Greece, but also in the control, where appropriate, in the assessment of candidates and for adoption and parents for adoption, in the control of the life of the child throughout the period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I will not get over it. Let's not hide. Living in a society in which every day we hear of child abuse by their own natural parents, what we need to discuss and what we need to stress is the need for constant monitoring of the situation of the child at all times in the process of taking and adopting. That's what's important. We really hope that with the extradition, the completion of the decrees will improve the existing framework, which has many great gaps. We must concentrate on that. I'm sorry Mrs. Ahchioglu left. I would like to stress that, together with the abolition of the excise duty on wine, the settlement of the question of widow's pensions tends to become the two big jokes of this government. Every week they go to the next one. We have again tabled an amendment. We are ready to discuss any other proposal. But at some point, at last, this thing has to end. Either I do it like that and we can talk about it or I don't, bro. Every week to go after 15 days, it makes no sense. Finally, a comment on the amendment by the Ministry of Health, in the spirit of the observation made by Mr Theocharopoulos earlier to Mrs Papanatziou. There can be no amendments - a vacuum cleaner, which, in fact, from paragraph to paragraph are completely allergenic. The first paragraph of the Ministry of Health's amendment loads the budgets of hospitals, which are slashed and continuously slashed, and the costs resulting from convicted decisions against hospitals and doctors. They are paid directly from the hospital budgets, which, in our opinion, is unacceptable. Others shall, on a case-by-case basis, have a positive or negative impact on the state of the health system and hospitals in particular. Finally, it is impossible to discuss, once it is an entire bottom-up, completely alloprosalles and without any logical connection to each other. It would be better to submit themselves to a bill, to be articles, so that we can discuss them and contribute where we can contribute. Thank you and I regret the abuse of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr Ilias Cassidyris has the floor from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u47	Well, SYRIZA has passed very serious bills on the country's progress in a time of crisis, such as the bill man getting married to a man, the cannabis bill is free to burn minds and no reaction to society, the man's bill becoming a woman with a signature from his fifteen years - there New Democracy disagreed, said it was, but in eighteen years -- a bunch of other nationalist legislations, giving money to immigrants, filling up the country with Islamic mosques and Islam. He has passed the anti-racist law, so that if anyone reacts to all these ruthless, go to jail, go the prosecutor to arrest him and put him in an administrative fine of several hundred thousand euros. The conclusion of this whole story is today's piece of legislation that you enter, where the man who has married a man will also be able to adopt a child. We are talking about the ultimate decline, about the definitive dissolution of everything, about absolute degeneration. I would like to see the economy of the debate, first of all, defined - on the basis of etymology, based on the Greek language - what is 'natural'. If, then, the word "normal", the meaning of this word is, what is evolving according to nature. As we know, in nature, reproduction, childbearing, offspring have the potential to create. So if you are today legislating to adopt children, you are abnormal. This piece of legislation is abnormal, it's only natural. There is, of course, the famous 'caramella' for 'Racism'. I'd say there's racism. In any case, especially when such legislation is introduced, there is racism, which is being applied to the detriment of normal people. So you're racist and with this particular racism you face anyone who thinks and acts normally. Of course there is racism against children. Because - be careful - here the victims in the whole case are the children. Because the law of the state involves violence, because you say that with the law of the state and without their will certain children will experience a situation without precedent, a situation not just foreigners but a situation of total marginalisation and mental oppression and social stigmatisation. Because that is certain, that is the reality. Here in Parliament may be heard by the rapporteurs of the majority, but we do not live in a world like the world of SYRIZA, where it is all pink, where there are no sexes, where children only go to American college and to the Hill Schools. Do we live in a world where there will be children after this piece of legislation that you enter today, that will go to school and tell them the other children: "Your mom comes in for control?" And he will say: 'Not Lakis is coming'. Moms are coming, and that's why this kid's gonna be a candle. And he will ask this child himself: 'Why am I experiencing this situation?' And it is not just what you say 'bullying', that is, school bullying, which will experience a child who will be in this situation. It is, above all, what will be faced with within the world. That's why I say it again, if there's a racism, it's the racism that's taking place at the expense of these children, who, without their will, will experience this situation of marginalization and social stigmatism in real life rather than in the one you present, the virtual life of SYRIZA that has nothing to do with reality. You have also put some university students - all right we know that in universities if you are not a symbol, there is never a chance that you will become a professor, have a seat and teach - to sign a document that finds unscientific views. On the other hand, the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Aivatidis, a doctor, a coroner, a former President of the Greek coroners, is one of many "mortem" of the Golden Dawn. We're incomprehensible! We finished Greek universities, but according to your culture - your leading executives don't know how to speak the Greek language - we're amorous! We, therefore, have tabled all the relevant scientific evidence, which demonstrates that what is now being introduced as a draft law is also scientifically unacceptable. From there on there there is a ultimate goal in this whole process. The aim is to dismantle the family. Family is the main cell of the national state. Through the dismantling of the institution of the family, you aim to dismantle the core of society, to level the national state. That is the purpose. It is a classic and organized plan of globalisation, which only resists Golden Dawn. Only the People's Association - Golden Dawn with the rhetoric and political positions it expresses within Parliament and its struggle in society resists the plan of globalisation as opposed to the New Democracy party. Of course Kyriakos Mitsotakis voted for the cohabitation pact, Dora Bakoyannis will now vote for the adoption of children by gay couples. So the New Democracy cannot say that it represents the conservative voter. In this sense, I say again, it is a 'travesti' party. The morning is with the Church, the night is with the transsexuals. It is a 'travesti' party, not a party that has a specific political position and in no case expresses the conservative world in Greece. From there on there there is something infinitely more important and worse for our nation's course in today's legislation. It's the assumption of foreign children. And I am not talking about these children, which may come from war zones - this is where Golden Dawn has a certain position and of course to treat those children from war zones - but by constantly entering Greek society countless - daily come into the country illegally - illegal immigrants. It will soon be a majority within Greece and we Greeks will be a minority within our country. The major problem is the extinction of Greece, which, with every piece of legislation you are trying to impose on the country and of course it is the blow to the roots of Hellenism, is the blow to the coherent ties of Hellenism. Once Herodotus, in the 5th century B.C.E., had defined the homonym, the homonymous, the homonymous religion and the homonymone. With today's rules Herodotus would have been prosecuted under anti-racist law! When he was talking about the ommon, he was talking about common blood, common racial origin. Of course, the common blood, the common racial origin, are affected today by illegal invasion, because you want a Greece without Greeks. The homoglogue has been affected by a plan since the 1970s, even when it was the government of Rallie, New Democracy, when the teaching of the Ancient Greeks was abolished. Homosexuality, of course, is affected by the continuing legislation on Islamization of Greece and Islamic gaming, which all the wings of the Parliament are voting from SYRIZA to New Democracy, with the sole exception and voice of resistance on Golden Dawn. Of course, the homogeneity with the xenophobic morals, with the Turks that have become law, with Survivors, with the decadent reality brought by Alfouzos in collaboration with a Turk. This is the mediation system in Greece. Greece alone we see every day in the Erdogan news reports and propaganda in favour of Turkish imperialism. This whole situation therefore has to do with the Greek people, who even trusts today, fanatically, even today in the tripartite: home, religion, family, and that is why Golden Dawn is the rising political power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u48	Mr Georgios Lambroulis has the floor. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the bill takes place at a time when the issue of child protection is greatly exacerbated by the consequences of the capitalist economic crisis, with the proliferation of family diseases, domestic violence, child abuse, drug addiction, mental illness and others, as well as by the imperialist wars and the lousy European Union-Turkey - Greek Government agreements, which turn our country into a warehouse of unaccompanied refugees. Of course the government is aware of the seriousness of the situation and the problems it has to face, what does it do? It gives cause for the problem the result, as it says, of children who have been staying within the institutions for a long time, that they do not know the number of these children or their course or that, due to the lack of social workers, the adoptions and ascensions are delayed. Thus, it leaves the root, the real causes of the problem, on the one hand, to measures for the management of certain aspects of the problem in the context of its policy and with as little expenditure and responsibilities as possible for the civil state it serves. At the same time, however, the overall policy of today's government, like the previous governments, continues to create and reproduce social conditions: exploitation, violence, wars, poverty and unemployment, which lead to an increase in abandoned children, children without family or children from inappropriate family environments. And exactly what it is trying to do through the bill is to manage and reduce the impact of its own policy, a policy that is loyal to the Euro-Union strategic options for reducing the damage and maintaining social cohesion. That is why the bill is not mentioned anywhere, for example, in ensuring the best functioning of the under-financed and under-represented public child protection services, but rather in undermining their function, since these structures have been part of the policy of shrinking public institutions, gradually, for over twenty years. What's the target? The decommissioning of state responsibility and the issue of child protection and its assignment to all kinds of individuals, by strengthening their role, while maintaining the system of private adoptions, which allows for the operation of circuits and the marketing of children. In fact, the introduction of the unacceptable and provocative institution of professional contractors for the difficult cases of disabled children, with psychological problems, is replaced by an act of aid and altruism to the unprotected child, with professionals offering services against wages, insurance, etc. Target? The gain and also the deepest targeting at the same time is the influence of the conscience of our people on the acceptance of the rot of the system itself, which is that everything is sold and purchased, turning children into a merchandise. Indeed, your contribution, gentlemen, and SYRIZA, to the system and through this act is valuable. In order for the government to convince, what's he doing? It goes through oversimplification of scientific data for the stay of the child in the institution, suggesting the argument of supposedly degrading and demonizing the institutions. Really, what institutions do you refer to? To what you've left at mercy, no staff and infrastructure, no scientific design, and that's why it's dangerous? We do not defend the present situation of these institutions, but we do not tolerate, we do not accept in the name of the weaknesses, the problems that your policies have caused and caused, the unprotected children and especially those with disabilities and mental disorders to remain exposed, to become a cloak between contractors. We believe that this will have a significant impact on the psychosocial development of children, which is reflected in experience abroad. Has the same tactic also not been followed in the context of the European Union and the Greek Governments' policy to withdraw the state from the responsibility it must have in the operation of psychiatric units? So in the name of decommissioning after the psychiatric structures were deported and abandoned, the result of what was it? Patients to be driven to the private sector, those who can pay, while non-existence of state structures and mental health services sharply increased the phenomenon of the rotating door, open door as you say, in other words, entering patients in the remaining psychiatric hospitals that are narrow. It is shown in the most embodied way that the policies of privatization and trade in mental health implemented and implemented, have as first victims the sufferers themselves and their families that are supposed to benefit. We therefore believe that the assumption should be made in strict terms and conditions from appropriately selected and trained families, which will not have the profit, while for those children who do not join a family, there should be modern, high-level child protection units, with modern infrastructure, staffed with permanent, adequate and appropriately trained staff. Having as the criterion what is really an interest in the unprotected child, his normal mental, physical and social development, we believe that the state should have full and exclusive responsibility in this area, with the aim of preventing the phenomenon and supporting families in every way, of identifying in good time the families and children who are having problems through the primary health system, through the health centre which has the image of the reference population and through family planning it will support mono-parent families, families in crisis, of course, with the aim of manifesting pathogens. For the unprotected child, the child without a family requires the setting up of a single pan-Hellenic scientific institution, with scientific staff, with technical staff, who will have full responsibility for the operation of the child's state hosting units, for integration into the body of those legal persons under private law, while through the body to prepare, train and support candidate parent contractors and fosterers. So, where did you hear the JRC wants the children in the foundations? They are, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's Members, clearly a slogan and a conscious distortion of the JRC's positions. Like the protection of unaccompanied minors should or should not be a basic obligation on the State rather than non-governmental organisations? And that's what you're talking about? What are you doing? We say that adequate state infrastructure needs to be developed with the necessary staff at the points of entry and transit of refugee flows, so that children and not children can be directly protected in detention in common camps with adult and insecure conditions. The management and development of state services in the field of asylum and family reunification are required in order to promote the procedures, while for children who do not have a family, provision should be made for their immediate placement in a foster family or adoption and for the State to assume responsibility for supporting these parents, economic, social, etc. We have no delusion, that these can be achieved within this rotting system and that cannot give solutions to key social issues in the year 2018, and that is why we say that a struggle is needed through the working people movement, against this system that leads our country and our people to this rot, poverty, impoverishment and exploitation of human beings by people, while opening up the way, so that the people can really become a master, that is to say, power in our country, because only this is how the service of people's needs will be at the heart of them, and ensuring the conditions of life and upbringinging children by childbirth, not treated as an individual matter, as today, but as a social issue that must be fully guaranteed through the state, its services and structures. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u50	Member Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 13 May to 16 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u51	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from St. Andreas Arcadias High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is the Greek society so conservative that it becomes backward when we discuss human rights when we discuss the self-evident obligation of the state to give equal access to everyone for the same right? This debate I would say that we have experienced it before with regard to its atmosphere and the recent past, and when we were discussing the extension of the cohabitation pact to homosexual couples and gender identity and older than we, when the representatives of the Greek Parliament were discussing the political marriage, the decriminating of adultery and even older for women's vote. I shall therefore say that no, Greek society is not backwards. It's conservative, it's not backwards. Retrogressives are several politicians, several Members of Parliament who fear, tremble their voters and run behind their voters, saying the so-called 'caramella' - argument: 'Society is not yet ready'. And when will society be ready? And who will judge if society is ready? Society knows very well if it's ready. She's too ready to accept the assumption of homosexual couples. A little backwardness in the past, of course, will make us wiser. In 1893 at Athena Street, the road connecting Omonia with Monastiraki, were on the road for a period of four of sixty tons. They did this because the Athenians did not want to get into the electricity. They were afraid, because the press, which has not changed much since then, was coming out with headlines and said: "The land will fall to kick those who will be under trapped," meaning the passengers of the power train on the part of Athena road, which was underground, tunnel, even today. I would therefore like to say that, with information, with proper information from the world - and, of course, the world is also responsible for how it is informed and where it turns its attention - miracles can be made in that country. We do not expect any politician who hides, fears and tells us that society is not ready. We don't want him, we don't need him. Was society ready then with the decriminating of adultery? Some people had risen up and then. Was society ready for civil marriage? So we need to open our eyes and I am referring above all to the Greeks and Greeks of politics. We need to open our eyes. In 1982 - I continue with the small historical uproars and I am approaching today - we had in Greece the birth of the first and world tenths of the 'tube children', as they were then called. In other words, children who came from in vitro fertilization, a widespread method of childbirth, a method found by British doctors and, in the course of the years, the term "tube" was lost. When the Greek society first came in contact with in vitro fertilization, we had titles such as "The first twins of the tube". In England by "DAILY MAIL" we had the title "Super baby", "Super baby arrived". In Greece it was a big, hot topic. Fight who's going to be a godfather. "Alarm on Tinos for the kid's paints of the tube." Thousands of children are now born using the method of in vitro fertilization and fortunately passed into the sphere of normal and ordinary. Ladies and gentlemen, why should we vote 'yes' on Article 8 of this draft law on the possibility of gay couples taking up children? For we have the following: Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the right to family life and respect for it is self-evident. We have Article 14 of the same convention, where discrimination on grounds of sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other beliefs are prohibited. We have the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which says that there must be equal treatment of individuals, must have equal rights regardless of sexual orientation or sexual choice. We have at the bottom of Article 4 of the Constitution, which says that all Greeks are equal before the law, that Greeks and Greeks have equal rights and obligations. We also have an end to Article 2 of the Constitution, with the self-evident fact that respect for and protection of human value is a primary obligation of the state. This is our primary obligation of Greek MPs and Greek MPs. Not to hide behind the voters, but to lead to society where it should be. And your society informs you that it is much more ready for too many things than an MEP, who fears not to hit the bell against it in his local district. The protection of children is self-evident and unnegotiable for us in the Potami, but also the future parents who will accept them are a conquest of Western civilisation. How do we do it? The foundations of our country are two thousand children. Two hundred children are adopted each year. Only twenty - thirty children are led to foster families. As the explanatory statement admits, it has been observed internationally and it is preferable for children to find a home, love, care, than to remain in closed structures such as institutions. So the interest of the child is what leads us to accept, of course, Article 8. We would also like to see it extended to the river. We're in favor of having homosexual couples. We are in favour of recognizing the right of homosexuals to civil marriage, and we are much ahead of what we are discussing today. But we think it is the state's duty to choose the most appropriate fostering parents for the child's quality upbringing. That must be our criterion and no one else. Let us now come to some of the issues that I did not want to deal with, but because I heard some monsters coming out of the mouth of some colleagues, I have to answer. The American Psychology Society finds in a number of studies that there is no scientific evidence to suggest that parental efficacy depends on parental orientation. To those of the MPs and MPs who tell us otherwise, I would make them an appointment with the American Psychology Society, go against the scientists of the American Psychology Society, make them change their minds, if they have such inconceivable evidence for the contrary. But they have absolutely nothing. We have the fifty-five academic psychologists from Greece and abroad who, in their well-known text that we have all read, conclude from the following: Objections that homosexual children do not develop very well in relation to heterosexual parents, do not find support in scientific literature. Instead, scientific findings agree that homosexuals are both suited and capable as parents and heterosexuals. For me, ladies and gentlemen, three are the very important ones and the main ones we should have in mind when discussing anything in relation to children. Firstly, the quality of the relationship between the parent and the child, secondly, the quality of the relationship between the parents who belong to the child's environment and thirdly, the financial resources or any other means of disposing of children, regardless of sexual orientation. Ladies and gentlemen, the river, of course, says 'yes'. We don't care what the Annells say. We do not expect to hear from the ANELs whether they will say yes or no to cause a problem for the government. No problem. They're fine SYRIZA and ANEL, so they're gonna go all the way. But human rights, our basic principles, we do not sacrifice them for anything, and that is why we always enter into such battles. I would like to close with this: Gregory Xenopoulos, in 1904, wrote a chronograph entitled “Strange Life. For the fear of the Athenians," referring to the fear of the Athenians entering the power train and going from Omonia to Monastiraki, because they feared the tunnel that the earth would fall and beat them. So listen to what Xenopoulos said on September 16, 1904, which I think is entirely applicable in 2018. He said: "The struggle that will exist will be between old and new, coming and coming, past and future. Similar games..." - the 1900 Xenopoulos era - "...knowledge or tangible, intelligent or visible, noted the triumphant path towards progress and culture in recent years". I therefore call on the Greek MPs and Greek MPs to proceed towards progress and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2018. We're not even in 1893, where the Athenians were afraid to enter the power train. Come, then, and become passengers of the future and do not stick to the squirrel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not the rapporteur or the special speaker for the preparation and discussion of this draft law. I stand alone, wanting to inspire, not demons, but concerns, in the thought, logic and feeling of all of us, while at the same time expressing the positions and will of the citizens who have given me the responsibility of representing them in the Greek Parliament. “ And God made a male and female man. He hath made them, and God has blessed them, saying, "Be fruitful and be near." Genesis, Old Testament, Part 27-28. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Despite all the arguments in the Chamber, that's the truth and that's what I'm saying. But God did not create man alone. He also covered the need for company, ladies and gentlemen. "The good is man only, whom we help him against him." From the same book of Genesis, chapter two, without 18. So she created the woman as a peer and different from her partner, giving her consciousness and need to live together and complement each other. This husband and woman's wife blessed God and gave them the opportunity to have children, with his divine commandment "enlarge and multiply." This is a completely separate bond closer to any other family, and only for them is the "encasing of his father and mother, and clinging to his wife, and the two are saved into one's flesh." Book of Genesis again, Chapter Two, Part 24. Gender diversity scientifically documented at the level of biological, physioanatomic and emotional, advocates the need for their complementarity in order to harmonise the man and woman. Two reasons, in my view, give rise to homosexuality. The first has to do - as is scientifically investigated and to some extent documented - with genetic science and biogenetic indicators, which are different to some people. The second reason is that homosexuality arises from a man's narrow or wider environment. However, the causes of homosexuality are not entirely clear. They depend on a number of psychological, family and social factors. In many cases homosexuality is an option and not an inevitable result. The argument of homosexuals in homosexuality that love is not a sin, has an answer. Of course it's not a sin, love. But it depends on where it's headed. Love in money that makes man advantageous and capable of committing terrible crimes enslaved in this passion, is not it a sin? Is the love of a father to his daughter who is different from her father, or is it not a sin? The same love could be claimed to have for paedophiles, ladies and gentlemen. In such cases love is sin and even monstrous! In homosexual relationships is this love considered innocent? All of this actually goes beyond our logic. They've become a logic of insanity. Recognize in your memory the scenes played here in the gallery of this House when you passed the cohabitation agreement. If the deceased - and you know very well what I mean - and the outrageous celebrations of these people - if I note! - were they involved in the same theories by heterosexuals on the occasion of something that would have been relevant to them, would they be treated with the same tolerance as those concerned? I answer that no, they wouldn't be treated similarly. And you know why? Because we experience the dictatorship of the different. We're afraid to say what we're thinking, not me, because I don't. I support the freedom of speech and the movement of freedom of my ideas. So we're thinking, and we're afraid to say what we want, because we're afraid they're gonna troll us, we're going to be washed up with a million as many cosmic surnames, they're gonna sue us. I, in fact, have been sued. I was sued by the Helsinki Observatory for my views on the Coexistence Pact because I said that this was a small group of sexually outdated people. I'll soon be in court to defend myself. And when that time comes, I will ask you to lift my immunity. We will therefore be described as racist and homophobic for our opinion. It is a reproach - you see - to express it if it does not coincide with theirs. And now, after the tip of the iceberg that we have experienced with the recognition of the cohabitation agreement between couples, we reach the middle - it is certain that we will experience more - by establishing the assumption of children from these couples, the good intention of which, of course, I am questioning. And I say to you this: those people who have the ability to have sex with respect for their sexual orientation do not want to use this ability to reproduce themselves, to perpetuate their race, but want to become contractors, for children who bad institutions do not offer them all those services to have a good time. And this is where the state itself is responsible, because these foundations are not working properly and suffer these orphan children. On the other hand, those heterogeneous couples who have tried and failed to give birth to, do not have the absolute right of admission and adoption, but bypass them, because they will have it in this piece of legislation - if it is voted on - and those gay couples who are in no way entitled to it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes of your tolerance, Mr President, please warmly. Two minutes and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u55	Wait a minute and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u56	However, in this particular case, it is primarily the emotional and mental safety of children. Obviously, the environment of the family is prejudged in relation to the environment that everyday life forms in the institutions, where these children are hosted, but whose roles are distinct and mutually complemented, the family which, even conceptually, could not give characteristics of ambiguity. Family is not a word in cancer inscription to read in various ways. It has structure and pillars. The confusion in which a child will come in order to clarify and delineate the concept of father and mother, that is, the narrow core of the family, how will it be dealt with? I note the lightness with which we are dealing with this issue by our colleagues in various political formations, and I am one of them. The legalisation of provisions which bring about such unprecedented legal changes in the social core should have an absolute social consensus. And since the Government must be the political guarantor of social cohesion, I would like to ask the Minister, who is not here at this moment: he has been exhausted in every direction with dialogue and discussion, he has been meditated on every aspect of this legislation and social acceptance has been guaranteed in total? Because you know, these kids won't grow up in here, protected by "progressive" minds, who have decided how to grow up. They'll grow out there, loaded with a diversity, that'll be completely impossible to manage when social everyday life isn't ready to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Katsiki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. In laws of this particular weight, we must first and foremost ensure that the social base on which they are placed is consistent and sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Katsiki, don't make me close a microphone. Please hang up. You've taken two and a half minutes over your normal time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u60	I don't think I'm the only one. In any case, I conclude by saying that the Independent Greeks, in defending our political impulse, autonomy and self-determination, will vote against Article 8 of the draft law, urging those who are prosperous to the want of society to do the same by obeying the strongest laws of all, the laws of morality and values that no legislator has written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u61	Mr Spyros Danellis has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make something clear in the first place. My vote, Minister, is not followed by praise. This is due to the logic of 'non-optical'. Before I read the bill, from the doro that was provoked, I thought we would finally finish some of the half-works we left when we voted on the cohabitation agreement. Amongst these half-works that we have left were the cases of adoption, a term which needs to be changed and replaced by "constitutionalization" or "education", because let us not forget that the only way to describe the world and to come to an understanding is of course the language and the accuracy of the terms. Sadly, however, I was disproved. We are not yet able to discuss this, as it seems, and let the project of resolving and resolving issues that have to do with people's lives and especially with children's. We prefer to let children rot in institutions, rather than give them a chance to change their destiny, rather than ensure that they have better choices of life and development than those which an institution has given them as well as good intentions and principles as it has. But what are the objections? What arguments resist a respected part of society in the anemic liberal article 8, anticipated - attention, not adoption! - by couples associated with a cohabitation pact and obviously including same couples? The first argument comes from a sterile reproduction of stereotypes, a slavery that wants all homosexuals, regardless of sexists, paedophiles and corrupters and, of course, the only dragons in our angelically-plated society. Of course, it is Norma, which is an easy idea for the majority of society and, of course, for the use of many of these idealism and obsession. But also logically, no one comes from anywhere, that homosexual couples are not suited to parents. Researches show that they have on average a higher motivation and show a more commitment than heterosexual couples to child rearing, since they always have a conscious choice to raise children. Furthermore, they must pass the adoption test, a time-consuming, psycho-corruption and bureaucratic process before they reach the end of the road. On the occasion of time, the procedures must be shortened, without, of course, means a reduction in the actual assessment of the suitability of applicants for childbirth. So homosexual parents have proved their strong desire and motivation to have a family before they even embrace their child. On the contrary, maybe 50% of the heterosexual couples become parents by mistake. And we know that very well from us. However, I am returning to the issue of adoption or childbirth. We do not have a 'wrongly' here. We have a conscious choice, and that is why I insist. The government must allow couples of the cohabitation pact and adopt. The excuse is that childbirth is governed by the Civil Code, and it is about married couples alone. So let us amend the Civil Code in the same way as we did for the Cohabitation Pact, where little or no less we amended fifteen articles or for the consensual divorces where we amended two articles. I insist, because at least two thousand children are in the foundations of the country. Every year, the children adopted are only two hundred, while only fifteen to twenty are given to foster families, when much more applications are still pending. Families with two dads or two mothers exist in society and let's do, because of our hypocrisy and our principles, that we don't see them. Let us not allow the ostrichism of society to intrude into our legislative work. We have another responsibility. The question is to stop, as far as human rights are concerned, what we are all trying to achieve, ladies and gentlemen, not only those who define ourselves as progressive but also those who define themselves as liberals. These are the issues which concern human rights and citizens' rights. Of course, the rights of each minority are not to blame for the absolute fairness of the majority. These rights are first priority, and, of course, they are not acceptable to alleviate, tactics and micro-political considerations. We, Potami, from the very beginning of our existence, have not been defined in terms of our attitude to such matters, and we are today voting on this issue, the resolution of which cannot be postponed tomorrow. The'strengthening by the engagement', the so-called vote against such bills on human rights or citizens', is falsified and hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not appropriate to politicians. Besides, the work of politicians, as repeating the great Zack Delore said, is to open streets, to convince society to the hardest and not to mock ears and follow, or to self-sufficient, it has no role to play. In addition, according to the Constitution, the vote of each Member, anyway, must always be conscientious. The fact that in our day-to-day parliamentary practice parliamentarians are being used in order to get the parties out of their political deadlocks is an issue that must concern us as a political system for the quality of our democracy. And those who speak and are cut off for the threats that the rule of law at times faces, to think that just this respect for the rule of law obliges them to vote "yes" in Article 8 of the bill, so figuratively and half as they are today. Our alas kart relationship with the rule of law with Europeanism and liberalism cannot be the case. It only applies to false democracy, which we probably make in our minds, because we think at some point it suits us. And it is for you, scribes and Pharisee hypocrites that the monastic community of Mount Athos who remembered us and sent us the well-known letter that we have all received, while silenced in peace on all the other issues of injustice that we have to deal with, with the self-determination progressive or European or liberal, or those who are cut off, for rights and, of course, for the need to protect children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u63	Mr Ioannis Saridis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin by answering a key question today through this Chamber: Who are we legislating here today? Whose life do we change with our presence and with our vote? Who are we trying to protect? These are the real questions which should concern us every time we legislate in this Chamber. If the answer to this question today is for children, if, in fact, what we want to achieve, it is to protect childhood and treat the wounds that leave a child the separation for any reason from his parents, then suddenly, ladies and gentlemen, the articles and provisions of the bill under discussion are simplified and made easier to understand. Personally, I am very sorry for the tragic and undeniable fact that the domestic political system of the last forty years has completely failed to maintain the necessary dialogue within society, namely the debate that keeps democracy alive in a place, because it is based on the assumption of truth, of the same truth, so that it is common among the Minister who proposes laws for the citizen, the legislator who passes laws on the citizen and the judge who implements the laws on the citizen. This dialogue in our country, ladies and gentlemen, has been drowned, between fraud and fraud. He got in the way of the populists, and he was trampled. The truth in our homeland has broken into a thousand pieces and these pieces, unfortunately, have acquired a party identity. We have come to the point that the claim 'tell me what you are voting for and I will tell you what you think has happened'. Ladies and gentlemen, history and truth do not vote, are not elected and have no party identity. If the dialogue between us in this Chamber and those who are outside it and who suffer the consequences of our own actions, the results of our own decisions, that is, they were genuinely honest, then they should begin by asking the question 'for the good of whom we are legislating' as a matter of urgency. If what we are concerned with today is children, then a law that provides for fewer children in institutions and aims - we do not know if it will succeed - in no child in an institution, is certainly better than a law that provides for the privatisation of institutions or the construction of new and more institutions. What does an institution mean? What does anarchist depression mean? What does precursor form of founding mean? What does spasmus nutans mean? I read you from a book taught in our universities: "The main features of institutionalism are apathy, misery, anorexia, weight loss, limited mobility and the significant delay in intellectual evolution. Most of the heavy situations occur. Children suffering from extinction do not have the potential to create social relations." These write our books, that's the truth. Every decision we make, every decision that keeps children in institutions condemns these children to the danger of extinction. With this in my mind my proposal to the party, which was not accepted, was to vote in favour of the principle of this bill and to vote against those articles to which we disagree, thereby respecting our political commitment and choice to support what is right and to vote against what is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u65	We move on with Mrs. Niki Kerameos and then Mr. Theocharis will follow. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been watching for days now, weeks now, very closely, the public dialogue that is evolving on this draft law on admission and adoption, and I must confess that it is an image, a manifestation of the public debate that truly regrets me. And I'm explaining. The vast majority of Greeks know about this bill only one thing, only part of it twenty-eight articles: Article 8 which provides for the possibility of a child being taken by couples who have entered into a cohabitation agreement and which, therefore, provides for the possibility of a child being taken by gay couples, of course also responsible for the government, which, for voting and polarization reasons, chooses to invest in this particular article and to work on this particular debate. I want to be clear here. Of course Article 8 is an important article, which even divides Greek society. Others agree, others disagree, and each one’s view is entirely respected. However, I come to the point why I regret the public debate that is taking place around this bill. Because quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, there is not only Article 8, however important this article is. I am sorry, because it is sad that the Greek citizen who is following the news has not had the opportunity to know about the major problem that we have as a state to face with regard to assumption and adoption. Because it is regrettable that there are some three thousand children living in maternity hospitals and institutions in our country, three thousand children who are either abandoned or who have been taken away from their natural parents by appeal for abuse. Children who are healthy and who nevertheless remain in maternity hospitals for more than one year, sometimes in maternity hospitals without access to natural light, without being able to feel a parent’s affection. And, of course, the staff in these hospitals are making great efforts to respond to a project which is not the subject of work. However, the fact is that these healthy children remain in hospitals only because the admission and adoption status in our country is extremely problematic. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have this paradox: on the one hand, we have so many abandoned children who, in maternity hospitals and, in particular, in institutions in the country, can stay for up to seven and eight years, and on the other hand, we have so many young couples who desperately want to have a child, become fosterers or fosterers and who do not succeed. Why don't they make it? For example, there are only two prosecutors of minors throughout Athens today, and these two prosecutors must give the necessary approval to transfer the abandoned children from maternity to institutions and then to contractors or foster parents. Because there are no organised lists of candidates and fostering parents at national level, so that the process is not delayed when a child has already been found for admission or adoption. Because there is no coordination between the relevant bodies. Because institutions and bodies are under-represented, with the result that, ladies and gentlemen, in order to complete an adoption in our country, it will take many times today five, six and even seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, the studies have shown that children who have stayed in maternity and institutions for long periods are experiencing very often serious problems, problems with physical development, problems with their spiritual development, problems with neurological development and emotional development. And since, ladies and gentlemen, the words are poor in front of the real images, I urge you to visit such a hospital, such as the Children’s Hospital, in which such children live, and to see for themselves the unrighteous life that our state holds on these children. So this bill, which despite some of its vulnerabilities, comes in the right direction. You see, Minister, I do not have the slightest reservations about recognising the right direction and the positive effects this bill will have on these three thousand abandoned children, but also on candidate fosters and foster parents. I really believe it. But one would expect that you too would have the political maturity and the political courage to recognize that in this bill you incorporate almost all the proposals made by the New Democracy two years ago, in July 2016, proposals for specifics that he had put into the public dialogue. Proposals from the New Democracy such as the functioning of a National Register of Minors, in which all children living in child protective units will be recorded. Proposals such as the operation of an approved National Register of Approved Administers and Viewers of Candidate Parents, so that the process can progress faster when a child has been found for admission or adoption. Proposals such as establishing an overall timeframe, within which the assumption or adoption process can be completed. Proposals such as the establishment of a pan-Hellenic coordinating body, which will be responsible for facilitating the cooperation of stakeholders and services on issues of adoption and assignees. We have waited, Minister, for you to acknowledge that you are practically integrating these proposals from the New Democracy as a whole, as we today recognise that this bill is moving in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, there are issues that are beyond parties, over and above political tactics and electoral tactics and public debate, as well as the debate in the national Parliament, should concern this big picture, first and foremost, children who do not have equal opportunities in life and who are struggling and hoping to meet one day parents who will surround them with care and love. Ladies and gentlemen, these children should and should be our political priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u67	Well, there are two colleagues, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Charakopoulos, who will talk, then, as I said, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Now, Mr Theocharopoulos, I ask you - only if you agree - because he wants to speak for three minutes on the amendment, do you want to hear it, because I think you will make such a comment, because this is the same amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u68	You know her well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u69	Therefore, Mr Theocharis, Mr Charakopoulos, then Mr Xanthos, has the floor for three minutes and the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill for things that are self-evident. In 2005 American writer David Foster Wallace spoke to the graduation of Kenyon College students. His touching speech about the difficulty of consciousness, the importance of equilibrium in life, as well as the melancholy and the loneliness of adult life was entitled "This is water". It began with a fun and teaching illustration: Two young fish swim and meet a larger fish that swimd in the opposite direction. The big fish greets them and says to them: "Good morning, boys. How's the water?" The two fish continue to swim and then one turns and says to the other: "What on earth is water?" The selfish truths are the hardest to see. If we choose to close our eyes to them, they don't leave because we shut them down. I barely did, so it might be easier to see them. With the eyes closed. The International Convention on the Rights of the Child states: “When big people make decisions concerning children, they must count before all the interests of children. The state must protect and care for children if their parents cannot do so." So today we are talking about children and their good, not about parents. We talk about children who the state protects them from their own parents, subtracting diligence from the latter. We are, in fact, discussing a draft law of an administrative nature, which settles an anarchist landscape of many decades. By the way - the Minister is here - to make a leap to propose something: Minister, activate a judicial mediation mechanism for the adoption by judges specialised in family law. We must stop this suffering and the delay of so many of our fellow citizens who want to adopt it. Still, raise the number of juvenile prosecutors. Mrs Keramea spoke of their problems earlier. They're drowning with tragic consequences. I return to the bill, which lays down strict rules for families who are able to accept a child in their pockets, fighting circuits that break these spaces, exploiting emotions and human needs. But are we talking about this? Oh, no. Actually, we're not talking. We cry and cause confusion. Some with intolerance. I was trying to follow Mr Katsiki before, and I did not succeed. And those who solve the problems are too slow to keep political citizens hostages. And right now they are our fellow citizens hostages of SYRIZA, who do not solve problems at one time, but a little - a little - to keep them. Did we explain that the adoption and assumption procedure is two procedures which are practical but also essentially contrary to each other? How is adoption a process that gives a solution to two parents who can't have a child, while the assumption process is a procedure to protect the child himself? And how does this whole process of assumption take place through a scientific board, which decides at the end whether or not a couple is capable and fulfils all the conditions required to complete the assumption for each particular child? Today, without official data, it is estimated that more than two thousand children are hosted in institutions, public, public or private. A little more than two hundred children per year are given for adoption per year, according to data from the Statistical Office and even less for assumption. In fact, with this bill, the chances of giving a child assumption to a homogeneous couple are minimal. After all, that's not even the question. The point is to find every child the love that he deserves in a suitable family. Some claim: "But the Greek society is not ready." But was it ready thirty years ago, when the Asylum of Leros began, when everyone was talking about dangerous lunatics to let them go? And since when are a child's human rights weighed with society's readiness? But let us look at these terms too. Let us see it in terms of fear and fear of society. Research of academic literature in psychology science shows that parental sexual orientation does not adversely affect the child in a number of critical indicators for its development, such as social adaptation, stress, self- esteem, depression, behavioural problems. They are not homosexual couples by nature unfit to raise a child or to care for it. It is not enough, of course, to legislation alone. Strengthening the structures of the social state and specialist psychosocial intervention services is needed to fully integrate children, who can accept any discrimination. We must protect these children - and we must protect them from stigmatisation and from bowling. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time when, unfortunately, we lack sobriety in the public debate on important social issues, and that is why the political system has a great deal of responsibility. At a time when social rights are being brutally persecuted, we must all believe in the greatness of human dignity to hear at least the experts in science who teach that homosexuals are just as suitable and capable as parents and heterosexual. After all, the vast majority of these children have been taken away from custody from heterosexual parents. In conclusion, I will say a story that the President of the "Mother" Baby Center told me. It's the story of a child with a confused sexual identity that didn't want an institution to get involved, but no family was found to accept it. So he lived in the streets and was exploited by known circuits. If this child had even been given for assumption, he would have grown up in a better environment, he would have been educated, he would have had another route in his life. The children need a family to protect them and love them. This great truth, which every parent and every adult who wants, but who can't give birth, needs to enlighten our way of voting. That leads me to vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society is not made up of goldfish. It understands that the bill under discussion, which comes with delays, shortcomings and distortions, is primarily aimed at disorientating public opinion from the grim economic reality. While we are called upon to find solutions to a major issue, such as that of children in institutions and looking for family affection, the government uses it for other purposes, and let it shout for the opposite. Because this problem is actually getting worse with time. The economic crisis that many families make cannot cope with the burdens of raising children, but also the migratory flows that many unaccompanied children bring to our shores are grounds for exacerbating the phenomenon. At the same time, however, we also have the desire of many couples to adopt children. Unfortunately, the adoptions are consistently downwards. They plunge demands into an endless bureaucratic process. Candidate parents go through a psycho-corruption adventure, are disappointed, so they usually give up effort. This environment is reasonably discouraged by other couples who would like to adopt children or direct them to illegal paths for their dreams. As long as we look at the police briefing to see infant trafficking incidents, especially from Balkan countries Therefore, the primary objective of a government that would set family support as a reasonable priority would be to simplify adoption procedures, without discounts, under the conditions for parental approval. This was something the New Democracy has asked for from the outset by tabling a comprehensive proposal, highlighting the value of establishing an exclusive deadline for the completion of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, although moving in the right direction, also presents other gaps. There are issues relating to the absence of reinforcement of existing accommodation structures for children by recruiting additional skilled staff, but also to the choice of couples to become contractors and, above all, the process of monitoring their behaviour. Attention should also be given to professional assumption, which comes to give solutions to difficult cases of children who would remain in institutions, but could lead to exploitation effects. I now come to the notorious article 8. When you assured that the cohabitation pact was not intended to give birth to homosexual couples, you were obviously misled by the Parliament and the Greek people, because that was the first step to be made in order to make gay couples a contractor. And let the then competent Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradulopoulos, say that the "Government is planning laws honestly, if he wanted childbirth or adoption, it would have done so explicitly, it is a matter of concern to society and the government that it would not go beyond it indefinitely or hidden in a provision of a bill". I'm filing the relevant quote in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is, of course, a decision that deceives society, has not been sufficiently discussed and meets enormously and - I would say - reasonable reactions. This is, of course, not due to an intrinsic preservative attitude of the Greeks, as the self-sacrificing progressives claim. Because it does not mean that any measure that is contrary to fundamental principles established by a society such as that of the family should automatically be baptized as progressive and therefore positive. I fear that, behind this logic, there is clearly an undemocratic mood, when minorities are trying to impose their beliefs on the majority. The foundation of the family and the upbringing of children is based on the relationship between the father and the mother and each of the two contributes, in its nature, to the proper education of the children. Today we come to this self-proof truth to question it, in the opinion of some psychologists and the invoking of human rights, despite the fact that the opinion of some psychologists is not a scientific institution, universally accepted by the global academic community. I think that the invocation of human rights is becoming one-sided towards the people who would like to become the contractors of a child. However, there is also rights for the child, who, apparently, are not taken into consideration, because he is forced to live together with a situation which is certainly the right of every adult to experience it, but which will be the least confusing of the child himself. That is why we call on the government to withdraw, at least at the last hour, the relevant regulation. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to stress that the protection of the child, but also of the family in general, must be a priority for the state. The way we manage the problem with children who ask for family enthusiasm and love also characterizes us as a culture. Apart from any micropolitical, party or other pursuits, we are responsible for sensitive human souls and this thought should govern our actions and our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor for three - four minutes from your position to present your amendment. Then the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation will talk to Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present an amendment from the Ministry under the general number 1569 and a specialist 109, which deals with the arrangements for the daily life of the health system - micro-extensions, I would say - but an urgent one, because they create many difficulties. The first point is that in the case of damages by the courts to hospitals following the appeals by doctors or other workers, following court decisions on recruits, which have not been paid, etc., this compensation, the liquidation procedure must be carried out by the hospitals and not by the services of the Ministry, as was the case in the past, so that they will be delayed, payment delayed and interest on late payments which are borne by the State. The second point is the discharge of hospitals from fines and surcharges to the ENTSO for Waste Management in Attica, for the management of hospital waste for debts paid, but for a few days there have been increments and fines. We believe that this should not be imposed once they have been fully repaid, in order to facilitate the management of hospitals. The third point is the financial account of the legal persons governed by public law and the supervised entities by the Ministry that are required to submit to the Court of Auditors on the basis of a law, Law No 4129/2013, within two months of the close of the previous financial year. We regulate this in terms of financing and payments and not the balance sheet of total financial management, which can be carried out over a six-month period, because it is practically impossible to do so within two months. The fourth concerns payroll. There was a legislative gap in the payroll of specialists in forensic and toxicology, where for various bureaucratic reasons they had been unpaid for several months. There are few of these colleagues in the health system. It is being arranged and paid now by the Ministry of Health and not the Ministry of Education, because they are serving in workshops at the University of the ESDP and the Aristotle University. There is also a regulation clarifying the procedure for issuing Certification Acts for the classification of former doctors of the IKA - EEA in positions of doctors and dental practitioners. It is the term of office of elected members of the Boards of Directors of the Ministry's NPT which extends and ends on 31-12-2018 and is in line with the framework concerning the entire public sector. Clear the procedure for the placement of paid skilled radiation physics. The radiation physicists used to make a year of specialty unpaid. Now we predicted that they would have three years in specialty and be paid. We therefore clarify the procedure based on Law 4486/2017 and the conditions for authorizing the exercise of a profession. And finally, we are recasting to Law 4532/2018, which enables us to extend the term of office to about five hundred subsidiary doctors, who were funded through a specific programme of the ESRB. We have given them the opportunity to ensure an additional budget from the Ministry of Economy, through co-financed programmes, to extend their term of office until 31-1-2019. These are the arrangements, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor. Mr Theoharopoulos, you will also have a tolerance if you want to make a comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all - and we have said just now - this amendment procedure, which contains many articles, instead of coming as articles in a bill so that we can put positive and negative ones into it, you can understand that it is not good legislative practice and we cannot function as we should. For example, this particular arrangement, which you bring if it were separate from paragraphs 3 to 8, would be voted on. Paragraphs 1 and 2 would not have voted for it. Right now, you're bringing us to a sense. We will therefore vote'residences' in this amendment because, in the first paragraph, the hospital budgets are actually being charged with a real problem, which we see before us. In paragraph 2, you do not firstly clarify what hospitals are concerned with, how the costs of the fines already imposed are to be borne, and above all you say in the explanatory statement that it is necessary to ensure the proper operation of hospitals, taking into account the difficult financial situation in conjunction with the deprivation of the financing of hospitals by the social security institutions. While you are talking in the budget about overruns of hospitals, while you have increased the insurance contribution of health care workers and therefore the EOPY's revenues intended for the reimbursement of hospitals, you are now talking about a difficult financial situation. Bilinguality! And since there is an economic difficulty, why are you doing exactly the opposite with paragraph 1? These are questions that I understand that they cannot be discussed in such a critical bill, such as what we are discussing today. But I say to you that it is good to be able to discuss them in bills where the separate articles are to be found. Ladies and gentlemen, children have only one chance to grow up in safety conditions and this opportunity is to determine their physical and mental health as adults. So, today, with the responsibility and seriousness of protecting the rights of the child, we should focus our debate on the crucial institutions of assumption and adoption which the bill mentions, but also on how they are part of a comprehensive action plan for child protection, a plan that is evolving at multiple levels, from prevention, awareness and education to the functioning of the institutions and structures of child protection, and which proposes exclusively the interests of the child and not just the question of extending the assumption to those who have signed a symposium of heterogeneous and homogeneous couples. He singled out it because since the beginning of the SYRIZA and the co-government party of the ANEL refused this change. It is dominating the public debate once again with the well-known stereotypes, a argument that in its depth hides conservative reflexes on issues of an unpopular nature that belong to the difficult field of human rights. It is, however, unacceptable in a country that wants to be part of modern European states, instead of speeding up the steps towards the abolition of discrimination and the defence of human rights to go on tripping. And the need for progressive changes, such as this, and mottos, especially in the field of Family Law, to be blocked by fearful objections and perceptions. A characteristic example is the provision to extend the assumption to those who have signed a cohabitation agreement, whether they are heterosexual or homosexual couples. A self-evident progressive change. The right to take up by couples without discrimination of sex is a legal consequence of the cohabitation agreement which is a law of the state and which we voted in this Chamber. There is no discrimination on the cohabitation pact, there will be no one here either. It is incomprehensible that the right to equal protection of the law, as provided for by the universal declaration of human rights, should be safeguarded by choice. The arrangements for the assumption conditions may not include any discrimination. Any differentiation in the family couples would swallow - and rightly so - the European Court of Human Rights, which is based on the principle of non-discrimination. That is what we must do here, ladies and gentlemen. And our direction must be to protect rights, respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and jurisprudence. Let us finally stop running behind developments. Our country is still in the first five, in terms of number, of condemnation. Let's reclaim other prototypes. In the end, where and until where does sexual orientation affect parental effectiveness and healthy psychosomatic development of children? If we want an honest answer, far from subjective perceptions, it is enough to look at what experts say. Recent public intervention by academic psychologists from Greece and abroad concludes that the most important factors affecting the healthy adaptation of children are the quality of parent-child relationships and relationships between important adults in the life of the child, namely between parents and that sexual orientation does not affect the quality of parent-child relationships, the mental health of children or their social adaptation. We are, however, once again faced with conservative perceptions and caging in stereotypes, which we do not only meet with ANELs. This is where I want to make a parable, Minister. We just heard your co-pilot, I mean the government, Mr Katsiki, say about homosexuality, that it is a crime, corresponding to paedophilia. Perhaps we would expect them from the Golden Dawn, but this is a statement - they were described as criminals - coming from the dark past and which must be condemned. Because it is not possible, and indeed a Member of the government majority, to refer in this way to a group in our country claiming its rights. Of course, there are little times that have been unfolded and other worse, homophobic, racist positions. But today, I really think they crossed every limit. Like, of course, the arguments on'renewable society' - we have heard them from the New Democracy, we have heard them from SYRIZA Members in the public debate - are a genuine conservative and right-wing attitude and perception. Since then, politics, like parliamentary function, can only have the major problems of the economy, for example, and not the rights, which require democratic regulations, legal decisions, which define the lives of citizens. Let's put aside the story of the "responsible society" by looking at its real strengths. No one disputes that there are conservative reflexes in part of society. But was society ready in the 1980s, when political marriage went on in 1982? Immediately after society accepted it. After all, how does a society get ready? Does its political leadership not contribute to this? Should it not make a persistent effort to remove it from such preservatives and focus on the substance of matters and prevention? The Democratic Association and the Potami, the Change Movement, with the speeches of the rapporteurs, Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Mavrotas, were clearly placed on this subject, as Mrs Gennamas has said. Political leadership is not to be guided by society, it is to guide society, and in this context we are working. Of course, what can one say about Civic Opposition, which again confirms, through its leadership, that it cannot be turned into a modern, European, liberal, centre-right party. It is perfectly logical, ladies and gentlemen, that the political system should be crossed horizontally. It is therefore logical that there should be shades in each party. And of course, it is self-evident that human rights should not enter the sphere of any party discipline. At least on this subject, it seems our political system has matured. It's another matter of horizontal shades in the party system and another of what position the leaderships take. In this regard, your government partner ANELs and Civic Opposition of the New Democracy are inferior to the circumstances. Is it possible for the government partner of a modern European country to disagree with this rhetoric we heard a moment ago? Also, MPs from SYRIZA voting for pension cuts and all dogmatic austerity measures and reacting to the assumption of children in a non-discriminatory manner and are already regarded as MPs on the Radical Left? We do not, however, function on whether you have a majority or not, nor on human rights regularity. We support the extension of the assumption and to couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. As we have voted for all progressive changes without heterosy, the coexistence pact, citizenship, the possibility of building a mosque. As the progressive party which defended civil marriage, gender equality in practice, which promoted areas in the field of adoption, the commission of minors and legal support, which were positive to progressive changes, such as police identities and the religion, in all fields. That is what we are doing now. Such progressive changes to guarantee human rights are at the core of European social democracy, standing against all kinds of discrimination. The objections made by ANEL and New Democracy have two possible motives: A poorly understood view of the notion of politics about only the big narratives, but it does not catch the thread with the everyday struggles, and another that hides a deep conservatism in all the requests of minority groups. It is a structured opposition to the demand for open society. Today's debate in the House finally reveals that ideological differences are not only about who is the friend of the people and who is not, because there are many in this distinction. But it is also about an unpopular agenda, which is often about rights issues. Where fantasy prevails in political correctness, where discrimination defeats the truth. Today, then, there is a serious distinction of ideas, a distinction between open and closed society. But if we really want a modern European state, if we want to eradicate all kinds of backwardness and create a circle of equality and respect for personality to everyone, we must at last demand an open society. Ladies and gentlemen, we also prove in practice that we do not accept or reject exactly what you bring to Parliament. That's what the programme opposition does. That's our role. We are putting forward proposals, we are seeking and claiming substantial changes, and when they are achieved - as has been done in the specific issue in Article 8, which we have tabled for specific proposals, because you have accepted them and shown the availability of improvements in this particular article - then we are moving on to the next step. What did we ask to say clearly? There should be no prioritization, that is, first of all, to take precedence over the assumption of those who are in marriage, then those who are in the cohabitation pact and then individual ones. The 2009 Presidential Decree does not respond to the current situation, which has also been extended to the coexistence pact. We put the best interests of the child. We asked for this priority. You accepted it. And he points out attributes the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament: "The criterion of the interest of the child at the choice of the parent contractor, a criterion that is dominant within the framework of this institution, in accordance with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, outweighs the right of candidates to become final contractors". In other words, it confirms what we claimed the change and to which you have gone. The bill also has certain ambiguities and other issues. Each step, Minister, towards the dematerialisation of the children is positive. Allow me, however, to say that there is also a symptom here. Why? Because in some cases between the removal of the child from the family and its placement into hospitality, some transitional steps are needed. We need a transitional area. There are some difficult cases and it needs a smooth process of connectioning a child to the hospitality family. We need to move on to dematerialisation, but we need to know the difficult cases and how to deal with them. After all, we recently found ourselves in the process in Veroia, for example, the 'child Initiative' with very difficult cases there, and the way in which they try to support these transitional periods. Nor is the operation of the institution of assumption sufficient, but an information campaign is also needed. We need to look very carefully at both a priori state control of assumption and its follow-up. Because the pre-acceleration check must also be complete and effective. But also the supervisory after approval of the assumption, should be continuous and presupposes the development of synergies. It does not mean that today's most appropriate contractor will remain the most appropriate one after five years. The recent example of the priest contractor in Cyprus, a parent who sexually abused a child's contractor who eventually led it to suicide, is a typical tragic example for both of these cases. Unfortunately, our society is found by such "suitable" and above suspicion. This has nothing to do with any distinction between heterosexual and homosexual couples. Government services must be effectively activated for all these problems, because the main thing is to defend the interests of the child and its healthy development. You also mentioned that it would take five to six months to implement. And we have made this criticism for you. We doubt that, on the basis of ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions, we are calling on the risk code not to take much longer, not to take more than time to implement all of this. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to create a modern account of the future of Greece, of the prevalence, at last, of the open society of the values of social justice, equality and solidarity, progressive changes are needed, sometimes at political cost, but it is temporary, because society is soon aware of the need for such changes. And today we have such an opportunity to prove whether we will function as appropriate "supporters" of these values and whether we will finally proceed to the "adoption" of progressive policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kelles from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law attempts to strengthen the institutions of assumption and adoption. To this end, please refer to ELSTAT's data showing the dramatic reduction in adoptions over the last five years. We all want fewer children in institutions, and we agree that existing legislation needs to be improved by new regulations, which will make the institutions more effective. The bill contains some provisions, which fall within the range of our party's proposals that had already become known since July 2016, but we should highlight specific points that show "repealability" and shortcomings, and above all, stress the anti-educational dimension that the government is attempting to impose, without compromising its impact on the socialisation of children and without regard for its rejection by the overwhelming majority of society. The bill consists of twenty-eight articles. Of these, fifteen concern the assumption and only six adoptions. As I have said in committee, you want to strengthen the adminis­tration rather than the adoption, since for the first time you offer many incentives, and for the adoption of no one. And I do not think there is anyone here who disagrees with the fact that the institution of adoption is much stronger than the institution of assumption. So you could motivate the prospective fostering parents, as you give the contractors. I would also like to focus on the fact that you are reintroducing provisions covered by existing legislation, without bringing any innovation, Minister. Furthermore, the National Council for Adoption is nothing new. It has been established as an instrument under the heading ‘National Council for Resolutions’ since 1996 and has not worked. But also in its present form, it still does not have substantial responsibilities. The same applies, of course, to the registries in Articles 5, 6 and 21 that existed under different names, and also to the waiting list of candidate foster parents who are carrying the corresponding register. In short, you could define the function of fewer registries that would be more effective and would relieve potential contractors and foster parents of bureaucracy. We have proposed, as we have also proposed, the establishment of a national coordinating body for the two institutions which, however, will have substantial powers. In addition, no care is taken to support the infrastructures of existing institutions nor have you included the prospect of synergies between public and private institutions in the development of financing and the realisation of actions that could strengthen existing structures. Similarly, there is absolutely no provision for any action to raise public awareness of the institutions of adoption. I would like to point out all this because it concerns proposals from the New Democracy, which you have not taken into account. You are strengthening the institution of the assumption without, however, having a costly plan, without an assessment by the General Accounting Office of the State and OPEKA, which will grant the aid. To support the contractors, of course. All contractors will now be able to receive aid up to twenty-six years in the case of HEIs, studies and military service. However, the proven ability to cover the costs of children is defined by the contractors and you offer them a number of facilities. Such measures could also be taken for fostering families and acting as an incentive. Besides, the adoption is the one that ties the child up with the family forever and is thus protected until his adulthood. Let us not fool ourselves, the needs of the children today and the conditions of our society are such that children usually need support and after eighteen years in their studies and until they are professionally restored. We will support most of the arrangements, Minister, because we really want to strengthen the institution of assumption, despite the shortcomings. However, the country's major problem today is the lack of resources and incentives for new couples to create families, as well as support for multitude and third families. The most important issue for our country and its sustainability is demographic and the treatment of birth. Take a serious look at this issue at last and put aside the issues of progress and regression. If progressive is the dissolution of the Greek family, I'm backwards. But be sure that I am far more progressive than most of you! Article 8 provides for the assumption of children from couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement and obviously also from homosexual couples. I would remind you that Mr Paraparmatopoulos, as Minister for Justice, when he had brought the cohabitation pact, had said that it would not bring about the adoption of children by homosexuals. Of course you are on the side road today, Mr President. I've heard many put the dilemma "what is preferable? the children in institutions or in homogeneous couples;’ So this will reduce the problem of leaving children in institutions? Is that what you want to tell us? Of course, it is an indiscriminate right for everyone to choose their sexual orientation, but it is enough that this choice should become conscious, free, unaffected and appropriate. I do not question the love, which can have homosexual parents toward the child, but we are dealing with the issue on the child's side. Promoting and establishing artificial standards, affecting the child concerned, in relation to the hired, who draws from the family, is counter-educational and that is not questionable by anyone. The family is the primary socialization body, which plays a decisive role in the early years of life and later development of each child. That's why every child should have a complete hire. Personally, I am opposed to Article 8, regarding the assumption of children by homosexual couples. But you have lost contact with society. You're a government on a run-in, so you're just finishing up fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Cavadia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the institutions of childbirth and childbirth are major institutions of child protection in order to provide the necessary care, care and love for children, separated from their natural family. Care, care and love can only be given properly and wisely to personalized action and certainly not through closed care structures. Institutions, ladies and gentlemen, whether these are public, private or ecclesiastical, however good they may be, are in no way able to shield the mental and emotional health of children growing there. Their harmonious integration, the fullest possible psycho-emotional adulthood, can only be achieved in the context of a healthy family environment. That is why it is not meant that there will be children for years locked up in institutions and at the same time candidate parents who have waited for years, often losing their hopes. What are they waiting for? They just expect to have the opportunity to offer their love in a simple way. Unfortunately, in the area of childbirth and assumption, as in many other areas of social welfare, our Government has received an unacceptable situation. Actually, we've received a black hole. There weren't even any recordings that had been unprinted about how many children were in institutions. The procedures were extremely time-consuming, resulting in waiting time reaching six years. Children were missing from the registers, circuits speculated by taking advantage of the desire of our fellow humans to have a child. So today's bill comes to be a very big step in treating all these pathogens. It is coming to ease the tragedy of children and candidates. As has been pointed out - and I shall refer to it very quickly - the procedures for taking up and adopting more than eight to twelve months will be extremely accelerated. At the same time, the whole procedure in favour of the interests of the child is being established, as two stages of control are envisaged. At the first stage, the suitability of candidates to become fosterers or fosterers and in the second stage, after their application has been preceded - something also innovative introduced by the new law - and after the child to be taken has been selected, a second check is carried out on whether the particular couple is suitable for the child who has chosen. All these checks will obviously be carried out by specialist social workers. Three electronic registers are also created: the register of minors, the register of candidates and fostering parents, the register of approved contractors and adoptions. In this way, the State will know the exact number of children present in the institutions or given for admission and adoption, as well as the exact number of prospective parents. But, ladies and gentlemen, instead of the public debate focusing on these very positive things, which are at last regulated, there are some and some, perhaps even to cover their own years of insufficiency, who choose to deal with the right to take on and to have gay couples who have entered into a cohabitation agreement. These dangerous voices invoke a supposedly immaturity of Greek society. The same arguments of people who "drug the deaf and swallow the camel" have already been used for other issues: civil marriage, the cohabitation pact, for gender identity. And yet, the reality, ladies and gentlemen, has made these cries silence, as will happen now, since no one can deny reality. And what's the reality? But the existence of children in gay couples, an internationally-based state of law, which is already in existence in Greek society and which only bothers those who have allergies to everything different. It would be interesting, many of my fellow Members, who are expressing this opposite view, to be with us last Sunday at the Uranium Arc family celebration. They would have much to learn and learn. Here I would like to add the following. To those hypocritically or even ignorant, they still insist on speaking of immatureness, it is enough to quote some undeniable figures. With the existing legal framework, in 2016 in a total of two hundred twenty-three of a childbirth, the forty-three of them, that is, 20%, were made by single-parent families, that is, from which there is no parental or parental model, without having created any social disruption at all. Furthermore, we need to make it clear that it is not established by any scientific research that children who are growing up in homosexual families are adopting a particular sexual identity or are more or less socially successful, professionally or simply happy. That is why we also insist that we proceed immediately and implement something, which is also a SYRIZA conference, and I am referring to the possibility of political marriage and childbirth by the same sex couples. Obviously, there are social groups which fear that they do not know and which is why they react. Obviously, there are certain circles that consciously undermine these reactions by investing in them. They are the same circles, which have played a leading role in many darkening activities in recent years, the same circles, which either attack negatively what is little libertarian or repeat the "caramella" of non-social maturation at every opportunity. The action of these circles is facilitated by the attitude of others, who are more, who are faced with their personal stereotypes also generalise their own hesitation, giving him false social features. The role of a progressive government, however, is not to give in to social automation, unscrupulously horrendous syndrome or opportunism, but to open up streets, to facilitate society taking progressive steps, to evolve. The role of a progressive government is to discipline the social body, against issues of prejudice, diversity and racism, always in the general interest and with respect for individual rights. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are called upon to vote on a bill which will allow more children to be deceived faster than the institutional framework, minimising the damage to their emotional, mental and social development. At the same time, the bill ensures - and that is where our debate should focus - serious controls on candidate parents, always in the interests of the child's soul, which is in need of family enthusiasm. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In such legislation - and I shall end, Mr President - it is right that we all vote consciously, away from micro-participatory purposes. There are no ladies and gentlemen, there are no la carte sensitivities. You're either a human rights defender or not. So I call on you, too, from this step forward to listen to our conscience and not just to vote for the new law, but to pass by a large majority, thus sending a certain sound message to those who want to hear. For the rest, those who have closed their ears, quite simply, will be overtaken by reality itself and, after all, by life itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u81	Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u82	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a new democracy, we agree with the basic guidelines of the bill, which also include our own positions. We believe that its forecasts should be judged on the basis of the best possible protection and welfare for those who live in institutions today or cannot be with their biological family. We expect the ministerial decisions, which will largely depend on the success or failure of this legislative intervention, to be adopted quickly and on the basis of the comments we have made in committee. It is right and necessary to train the applicant parents and approved contractors, as is appropriate and necessary for the training and certification of social workers outside the public sector, so that the required social research can be carried out more quickly. All these procedures, however, must be supported by a group of different scientific expertise. General and special records for children, candidate parents and approved contractors are nothing new. They had also been institutionalized in the past. What matters, this time, is to work properly. That is why it is good that sanctions are provided for supervisory bodies and child protection units which do not comply with the information requirements of the National Register and the Special Assumption Registers. We would expect such penalties for childbirth records as well. Unfortunately, we do not have even an indicative picture of how much of what is being said in the bill. We do not know, so the taxpayers do not know how much it costs social workers outside the public sector or the training programmes for candidate parents and approved contractors, as well as the payroll of professional contractors. We do not know how much OPEKA will be imposed, which will pay financial support to contractors. It is a significant cost, not only resulting from the time extension of the payment for certain categories of children after their adulthood, such as the LEIs. It results, above all, from the payment of the aid to all beneficiaries, since until now only a small number of contractors, carried out through specific institutions, have received the financial aid provided for by the Act. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the right to take on, and by people of the same sex who have signed a cohabitation agreement, the objections are many and many. Several of us, who are negative in this case, have made two observations. The first is that the scientific data, all concerning foreign affairs, lead to conflicting conclusions and do not have that timeframe, which would give them credibility. The second observation is that, since most of the society has a negative attitude to a relative with the assumption of homosexuality, the child in assumption will generally be treated negatively in its wider social environment, with what this may mean for his good mental health and normal social integration. Since some colleagues have raised issues of constitutionality, personally, it is enough for me to say that Article 8 can be written in such a way that only heterogeneous couples are entitled to take part, without any problem of constitutionality. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, both experts and experience have shown that committees, councils and registers alone are not enough. A plan is needed to strengthen today's childcare structures to mobilise the private sector. It takes people to be informed of the assumption so that at some point, in the not too distant future, a culture of assumption has been created in our society. It needs a scientific protocol, whereby the assumption process will be done in exactly the same way by all the actors, instead of the fragmented situation that exists today. Only then can we hope for a better system of child protection and give the right of hope to hundreds, if not thousands, of children's souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u83	We continue with Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to contribute to today's debate with four comments. First observation, so we can have a size class. From the point of view of the debate in the committees, we are talking about two and a half to three thousand children, who are now in child protection and care units throughout the country. And that is my first point, in that the data finally began to be recorded. A register shall be established for children living in child protection and care units, a register for all potential contractors and foster parents. Finally, a real database is being created in terms of the protection of personal data. Of course, we cannot overlook what has happened to this day, namely that the child’s journey or part of that route was lost somewhere. Secondly, despite the fact that it has not been so lighted up in the position of colleagues so far, I would like to dwell on Articles 16 and 17 where the institution of vocational assumption is introduced. It is a sign of the true support and intervention of the state in children who are in real difficulty, children whose placement in assumption is difficult, such as children with disabilities or psychological problems. Here, essentially, it is institutionalised and assisted with monthly compensation and the parent contractor. In my opinion, it is right in such cases that everyone should be helped and supported. Third observation: Target is, no child stays in an institution. All the latest scientific assumptions, which at least I have in mind, come to the conclusion that the child's stay in institutions is not for the benefit of the child, it is not for the benefit of the protection and health of the child. In my opinion, we are talking about a set of measures by removing important bureaucratic and administrative acts, by reducing the time for the completion of assumption and adoption, by pooling all relevant public social workers, granting an assumption allowance, guaranteeing the right of fostering parents to enjoy the same permits for the care of the minor. All of this is converging in this: To get the child out of the foundation. Any solution is preferable to the child's stay at the institution. How is the child's interest served? By not staying in the foundation for a day. This includes all the initiatives related to Article 8. In my opinion, the obsession with Article 8, because it is not the only one, is essentially wrong with the bill itself. I think it is not right to lose the forest of child protection for a tree in this forest. At the same time, I believe that all the necessary insurance cycles have been incorporated into the bill, all decoupling policies are supported by modern and serious relevant scientific studies. In this sense, I support the entire bill. Observation fourth and last. Although not all the New Democracy colleagues' positions were at the same wavelength, I cannot stand here and here in plenary, but also in committee, the rapporteur of the New Democracy - and not only her - that neither too much nor too much has the New Democracy presented an integrated plan, which, over a few months' time, the government has copied it - and indeed, Minister, you have not copied it well - and that the issue we are discussing is not an ideology issue. In any case, I have a number of questions. I believe, in principle, ladies and gentlemen, that an excess of political courage is needed to move along these micro-political paths. It takes a great deal of political and spectacle to get along with such rushphetological paths and much more on the backs of the most defenceless people here in this society. Of course, I am not amazed by the New Democracy, nor by its rhyspheological openings, nor by its political opportunism. It's something I expect from the Conservative Party. But get to the point where they're talking about the collapse of the child protection system? I did not understand and I would like to present a few questions: are you really talking, that you didn't even know how many children are in the foundations? Secondly, is it not your policy to deal with, but nobody told you or anyone heard about the children who are looking to find their roots - even adults anymore - and most of the time with failure? From no one heard of what's lost in the child's path from evolution, from the child itself, from the whole of it? No one told you about the couples who came to go abroad? Some - and Members of the New Democracy - placed themselves in these problems. Really, in the decades that passed, who ruled? Wasn't New Democracy? Was it the old one? Is the New Democracy really different with a symbol of the torches from New Democracy, symbolizing the caricature of the torches? I don't understand! I could, of course, list and answer that, for the first time in history, with the 'first time on the left', a real wall of protection is being built against the most vulnerable social strata. Indeed, in response to what you said, I could list one by one of the governments' efforts, the first time with the Left in the government, for three years now, so that no citizen can remain on the sidelines. However, our main difference, gentlemen, is elsewhere and that is why I am not standing in these parts. Our main difference is that the Left in Greece comes from far away and pulls even further, far away, out of your own conservative horizon. And in her luggage, in our vision for Greece, in her racing path, in her DNA eventually, the Left has recorded goals of abolishing exploitation of human beings, social liberation, social justice. That is why the Left, even in the most unfavourable conditions - is the conditions of the recent three-year period, we have passed much worse - it can apply social policy and social justice, which are also included in today's bill. That is why any criticism of yours, apart from the fact that it rightly angers some colleagues, who feel that the law is right, is all your criticism in this field of social policy towards the Left, is to provoke laughter. Ladies and gentlemen, the values on which the Left is subdued serves society are in the public interest. In this regard, for the bill we are discussing, they serve the public interest of defenceless, minor children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr Spartinos has the floor from SYRIZA
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u87	Why on staff? He didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u88	I criticized the New Democracy. I didn't criticize anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Lambroulis, on staff. I'm the rapporteur, aren't I? He talked about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u90	He has a right to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u91	No, there was no staff. If from the Stepma, a MP criticizes another party, is that a personal matter? Please very much. Don't waste time. Come on, Mr. Spartan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u92	Didn't he talk about me? For my excess of courage? She spoke of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u93	Don't waste time. Mr. Spartin, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in our country, on the issue of adoption, is better suited to childbirth - and I shall use this term - is hopeless, so far. Unfortunately, all the governments so far closed their eyes in situations that all of us know about and should be ashamed of as a society and as a state. Institutions filled with children abandoned or abused, who even grow in a safe environment, in these institutions, lack the most important thing for the healthy development of a child: love and affection, which a family can provide. On the other hand, couples who wish to childbirth and who wait several times for six and seven years, without result, often resort to childbirth on a fee basis. As a result of this situation, circuits are being developed, exploiting the desire of these people and even reaching the sale of infants to a special traffficking, often involving natural and adoptive parents, doctors, lawyers and natural persons with criminal activity. How many years have all this been known to us? How many years at times do we see coil dislocation? What have you done, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, in order to ensure the proper procedure required? Today the government dares and brings in a radical bill, which upholds the entire process, mainly based on the interests of the child. In order to achieve this, two objectives must be met: the reduction of waiting times and the institutional and scientific safeguarding of the process, which is now becoming digital. With regard to the first objective, the Parliament adopted by law in 2016 the Association of Social Workers of Greece as the highest authority for the performance of a licence to pursue a profession and for disciplinary control of social workers. The Association will create a House of Certified Social Officers, which will contribute to the completion, in a few months' time, of the work of the social research and reports required. This reduces the total time required for this procedure to a maximum of eight to twelve months. As far as the second objective is concerned, the procedure now required is clear. It is digital, as I have already said, and it results in three electronic registers, which are held by the National Centre for Social Solidarity. In this way, the state will know the exact number of children present in public and private institutions, what is given for childbirth or assumption, as well as the exact number of candidate parents and contractors. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is a real part of the welfare state of a democratic society, which respects all the rights of the child, but also itself. Furthermore, it gives hope to candidate foster parents or contractors and leads to the dehabilization of children, which is the crucial for their psychology, since it enables them to grow up in an environment of love, care and affection. In my opinion, institutionalisation is derogating from human nature and not from the various human behaviours, to which some people have referred and often unacceptablely. As far as the differences between childbirth and adolescents are concerned, it is clear that both the rapporteurs and the Minister and other colleagues have said that they should not lead to confusion. According to childbirth, the foster parent fully replaces the natural parent and the obligations and rights. In the assumption, the contractor coexists with the natural parent and even has an obligation to cooperate with him. Childbirth, according to the Civil Code, concerns married couples alone, who fully replace natural parents. The admission can be made by married couples, by couples with a cohabitation agreement, but also by individual individuals. I would remind those who want to forget it that the cohabitation pact is the law of the state and the equal treatment of all citizens with a basic constitutional requirement. There is therefore no possibility of exceptions which would create an issue of unequal treatment of a group of citizens. In neighbouring Italy, hundreds of thousands of homosexual couples have become foster parents, without any social problems. But it is the social and political problems that Italy has today. Are we going to stick to medieval perceptions, to the detriment of children's rights? And not to forget yet that over a thousand children today are unprotected on the road, beyond these two to three thousand in institutions. Some - not all - but many of the critics of the draft law, and in particular Article 8, stand behind ideologies or worse, from micro-groups and voters. They think they can play with the government and SYRIZA. They're wrong. In fact, they play with the future of hundreds of children, our own children, this society, in which all of us live, and with the agony, too, of many couples and individual citizens, seeking a clean and fair process of childbirth or assumption, thus highlighting their true social sensitivity and real politics, beyond labels, chips and past. We as a radical leftist party, building a serious state of social welfare and solidarity, have an obligation to lead society forward by fighting conservativeism, from wherever it comes and thereby ensuring equal rights and equal opportunities for all citizens, regardless of any diversity. That's what we do with today's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u95	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u96	First of all, I would like to say that this is a little funny - because the Golden Dawn speaks of some bills, which you know is our opposition - to exist outside the entry of the Members of the Golden Dawn around fifteen or twenty policemen, when at the other entrances around the two people from the Security of the House. If you're afraid we're going to hurt you, we promise we won't hurt you. We're just telling the truth. The only thing you have to do is turn off the microphone so we don't sound. If, on the other hand, it is to intimidate us, we are giving you our word again that you are not going to intimidate us, and we will call it, anyway. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u97	What does it say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u98	Mr. President, can we turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u99	What's he denounced now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Have a seat, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u101	Look! They're outside the door waiting to get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u102	Ma'am, come here and see. They're outside the door waiting in!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u103	They're leaving! Run and go! You saw it. Don't talk if you don't know. Expose. Let me finish my speech. It'll be better for you if you let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u104	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u105	Will you bring the MATs too? You're so popular that you're coming with the MATs in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Let's get into the bill. We have heard about three or four hours ago, the SYRIZA rapporteur and many of the Members who support this bill, talking to us about scientific research, analysis and everything that shows that children who are adopted by homosexual couples do not have any consequences. But they all forgot to mention - because 'democratic' things are not specific - a research that has been carried out by the assistant professor of Sociology at the University of Texas, Mark Regneros - which was done in June 2012 - which says other things than what you believe or want to believe and say in the world. To be sure of what we are saying, the sample amounts to fifteen thousand adult Americans, eighteen to thirty-nine. In order not to think that this is an investigation which does not matter, progressivity and modern media sculpture make sure it doesn't sound. It says, then, that the children of homosexual families have a lower rate of success in the field of education, of worse physical and mental health, a higher rate of depression, a higher rate of need than psychiatric help, have a higher tendency in suicide, especially those who have homosexual men for parents. It's just a few. It's one of the things that has no effect on children. Everything is wishfully for you. This gentleman then said that in the investigations that have been carried out, which say that there are no problems for children who have been adopted by homosexual couples, the investigations have been carried out in particular between relatives and friends of a parody group who make what they want. That's what this man says. Indeed, there were cries at his expense, complaints were made, investigations were carried out, but unfortunately all of them - in introductory words - 'humanists' proved that everything that was said was true. We are therefore moving - if you do not believe in all of this - on some of the testimonies of these children. Specifically, Mrs Stefanovic says: "I have been exposed to obvious sexual activities, such as sodomia, nakedness, pornography, team sex, sadomazism with adolescents. There was no " - as this lady says - 'no guarantee that any of my father's companions would have been for a long time and often had to obey them. My rights and my innocence have been violated," he says. Then there is Mrs Barbara Klein, who says: "At the same time I was given the message that if I did not agree with them - which I did not - I was stupid and doomed to a life of punishment and hostility by my mother and her partner. They did this by encouraging all their homosexual friends in the community and they were like a religious group. The punishment, if I had disagreed, was that I should not be allowed out of the house except to go to school." Humanistic things, which aren't there for you, are on another planet. We end up with Mr Robert Oscar Lopez - these are just some of them - who describes that he experienced great sexual confusion because of the lack of a father figure in his life, which led him to a life of prostitution with customers, especially older people in his teenage age, in order to search and seek the missing father figure. That's what they say. Then, along with many others, they filed a lawsuit at the US Supreme Court to stop marriages between homosexual couples and, of course, the adoption of children. This case has gone ahead. It has not yet been decided, but we have come to a point, four states of the United States have now banned homosexuals from marrying homosexuals, following these. These to the knowledge and perhaps compliance. First of all, we hear here talking humanitarian about children, which really need help, so that they don't grow up in institutions. But we're forgetting something else. If we have now reached institutions of about three thousand children, it is because your policies, the policies of the memorandum, have not taken care of so that there are proper infrastructure in the Greek families. It is because you, for at least eight years, have put us in the nails of international loan sharks, so Greek families have no to feed their children, and many of them go and leave the children to various institutions and leave them to five days a week and take them just one weekend, or they don't get them at all, because they can't support them. So don't talk about humanity, you who've forced these people to look for food junk! Liars and hypocrites! So we are reaching a society today, in which a Moroccan man could say Swedish, a man can declare a woman or even a neutral man. In these societies we live. You want to reach us in societies loose, in people shallow, who do not have standards and ideology. Imagine a man when he does not even claim to be the gender born, whether he is a man or a woman - does he not even support that - what will he support in his life? Will he support his homeland? Will he support his family? What's to support? He is a man lost, indeed, who in the name, supposedly, of "humanism" flies into his psychological problems and what it will cause him. Imagine a man, born at all ten, at twelve, at fifteen changes his sex and a woman vice versa. This is the multicultural society, a massaman society, which you want and slowly there leads us. A few days ago, there was an investigation, which was even heard at the Delphi Economic Forum, by Dimitris Black, which mentioned some things, which were inconsistent with your views of seriousness, which you would like to tell us about society. In particular, this survey said that 98% of Greeks show confidence in the institution of the family. I don't know what you guys call a family institution, but we call a mother, a father and the children. If you say family, a man with a man, a woman with a wife and a rope, which you create, we're sorry, you keep it for yourself. And then it goes on to say that the institutions of the Armed Forces, the Police and Justice are following. Also, 85% of the respondents stated that they believe in God and 60% that they are close to religion, regularly going to the congregation. These are the investigations which, of course, do not interest you to be heard. In fact, we have heard features from many of the previous Members who have spoken, saying that society is not ready to accept these measures, which we are bringing. Really? Is that what they told you? And they said that we - he says - are for other things than what society says. You know what? That's what you leftists used to call a dictatorship. In other words, there is a government which has no match with Greek society, but which decides according to what it wants. We use the majority, elsewhere we do not use the majority, so long as we do what we want to do. So let the Greek people judge what is happening in the Chamber of Parliament, in which most of the problems have been created for Greek citizens. I would like to continue by saying that the behaviour of the New Democracy and ANEL is really a pretext. Especially the ANLLs, are coming out and conquering the government, shouting and screaming that the particular article of the bill should not pass, as many other bills have been called out from time to time. They forget, however, that with their presence and the support they give the government, this unwilling and treacherous government passes all these bills. They are also directly responsible for what is happening in our country and to leave the crocodile tears! As far as New Democracy is concerned, we really see that it comes from and behaves by the attitudes of the Bolshevian communists who decide and order on the reality. Be sure that the New Democracy would not vote in this bill. They would vote 'yes' too. Just the presence of the Golden Dawn brings them to a very difficult position. And what she's doing, she's doing it just to get away with the audience's election and election clientele. That's why people are supposed to react. If there were no Golden Dawn in the Greek Parliament, certainly the New Democracy would vote and all the MPs would vote for these things, as they did with the cohabitation pact and the mosque in the Botanic. They also support this government. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that there is a letter from the Holy Community of Mount Athos, which says that all Greek MPs should resist and not pass this bill. I'd like to testify to her in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If our fathers, the monks who hold Thermopylae, really, at the moment for our Orthodoxy, for our homeland, are to be assured that we will never sell our faiths and, indeed, we will fight for what we have said, for what we say outside Parliament and also within, at any price. Finally, I would like to refer to the SYRIZA rapporteur. He said in the morning that we cannot forbid gay couples from making the assumption, because he is against the law and that this is how they are guaranteed - he says - the rights of gay couples. Also, they say we have to respect the laws. So here's what the reasoning says. Really, what law is above logic? What human law can be above uncle? What law can transcend God and nature that make humans so? Man, woman and children, that's family. That's why we're going to keep fighting. And take very good care, because what you do will not be allowed by the Greek people and your punishment will be really hard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three educational attendants from the 50th Elementary School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A'80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in intra-corporate transfer - Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions’. The Minister has asked for the floor for some legislative improvements, which she did not mention in her speech. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u109	It's some legislative improvements. ‘1. In the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. In paragraph 1 of Article 2, after I, the following indent is added: ‘A representative of the Panhellenic Federation of Parents and Princess of Disabled Persons’. It is a request for many parties, to participate in the ESDC and a disabled institution. Here, in particular, we are choosing the PUCKAMA. It's the parents with disabilities. ‘3. Where the text indicates the words ‘parent parents’ shall be replaced by the words ‘sponsor parents’. 4. Prior to Article 28 of the draft law, the title ‘Ministry of Finance’ is added and the title ‘Ministry of Finance’ is deleted from Amendment 1572/111. 5. At the end of paragraph 2 of Article 28, the words ‘unless otherwise specified in individual provisions’ shall be inserted. You'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u110	Madam Minister, please testify to the legislative improvements in order for the parties to be aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u111	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u112	Madam Minister, since you have taken the floor, could you tell the House whether you are accepting any amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u113	Yes, I would just say that, Mr President. I have accepted all three ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if some people think that by putting policemen out of the entrance that the Members of the Golden Dawn enter will terrorize us, they are wrong. We came here and handcuffed me and talked to you, and we told you the truth. It doesn't bend the Golden Dawn. Take the decision! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] When the bill with the cohabitation pact came here, which the New Democracy MPs, a particular Minister of the Government of SYRIZA said the adoption of children would also come. You're Bolsheviks and you don't hide it. Use the tactics of the salam, part-block. But it's over. It is not enough time for you to break up this country, this nation with its great and glorious history. So before you even proceed to making the cohabitation agreement - you dare not - move on to something even worse, to the adoption of children. We have to make it clear from the outset that the People's Association - Golden Dawn shapes its perception of this issue on the basis of the holy right of the child by nature and by God to have a mother and father. You genuine children of "lightening" - within many introductorys - of social contracts fight against nature, against national identity, baptizing Greek people who come, with opaque procedures and now trying to dissolve and dismantle the institution of the family. Every child has the right to have a mother and a father. In the structure of a homosexual family, this right of the child is not respected. For the truth, this is essentially a fundamental violation of the rights of the child. Who will protect this child from a normal development with a father and a mother? The state. The state, however, not only protects it, but in this particular case it legislates the conditions in which a social teratogenicity is created. A child growing up assuming that his parents are two women or two, from the outset, is not properly informed of his origin from both sexes. You completely dissolve even what you left-wing, the fruity human evolution model with the male and female model. There are significant differences between the lifestyle of homosexuals and statistically heterosexual couples. My competitor Yiannis Lagos mentioned specific investigations that have been carried out in the United States. The disagreement of homosexual men living together is much higher than in a normal father and mother relationship and in the needs of children. For girls, the father is the most important anticipation measure in terms of the behaviour of men. This model does not exist in such a family. And is it no coincidence that the principle of acceptance of this type of family took place on 1 April 2001 - where else? - in the Netherlands, where there is also a party of paedophiles and people who like and are allowed to co-operate with beasts. That's where you drive Greece. Greece, however, is neither the Netherlands nor the United States of America. In the views expressed here by rivals from the Golden Dawn, ministers and SYRIZA officials came out and said that these views are not acceptable and that they are divisive, etc. Are you serious? For thousands of years when the foundation of the family with the father, the mother, has this been only natural and you are restoring the social order of things? The Golden Dawn will vote "no" categorically and denounce the New Democracy and the Consciousness here. What conscience? If you are conscious, vote against it. That's what it means. If you are conscious and believe in what is called a family, you must vote against it. I also denounce the PASOK, of course, which will vote 'yes'. It drags it behind this doctrine of political correctness. So is the river. As for the Party of Independent Greeks, we are again living the comedy of "yes, but". "I am voting against this bill, since there are others from the river and from the PASOK to vote for it." Let the Panos Kammenos party and the Independent Greeks leave these. If they want to be opposed to the bill, there is a road: they are now withdrawing their confidence and throwing the government down. If they don't, everything else is hypocrisy! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It is a pretext that you do not have the declared one. And we see this in a multitude of bills with the Independent Greeks, who are trying to rescue their already looted party clientele. With the "zo-patriots" together, you are making statements and bringing bills which whenever they are voted against, because there are others who vote for them. As we speak of bills, recently three Greeks made their patriotic duty in the storm caused by the Turkish threat and went to a Greek island on national sovereign soil and raised a Greek flag. And you've all come out and convicted them as dangerous. Is anyone who puts the Greek flag on national sovereign territory dangerous? Oh, no. And you are taking advantage of the ambiguity of the 1978 Act, one of the first laws of the Transition, which has ambiguity and neither too much nor too much can it be considered illegal to put the flag in his home if it is not a national holiday. For this reason, we have tabled a proposal for a law to the Parliament of the Greeks, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, a law whereby every Greek citizen will have the right to raise the Greek flag on every part of the Greek territory, even in Imia if necessary. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Finally, stop fearing and shaking in front of the Turks. You have applied to the Security Corps and the Armed Forces the doctrine of Mahmatma Gandhi, of passive defense. The police are afraid to pull their gun so you don't take them to prison and blame them and fire them. The same goes for the Armed Forces. The crew of the port, which was swept near the Imia by a Turkish warship, received congratulations because - he says - he manoeuvred and fled. Anyone who flees for your government is worthy of congratulations. In the cannon that was persecuted by a Turkish merchant ship in the territorial waters of Greece, its governor was punished for not making manoeuvring, i.e. not fleeing. Whoever runs off for you is a hero! Whoever raises the Greek flag is dangerous! In this context, two thousand nine hundred illegal immigrants went to Evros in April. There in a fence that was done well and had to be longer - only 10 kilometers long - there are no soldiers or policemen guarding it, only cameras. Whenever cameras track illegal immigrants in, police or military forces can't get in. There are open borders both at sea and at land. Golden Dawn won't stop saying it: Close the border. Protect Greece both in the sea and on land! The Armed Forces will take care of our borders and be regarded as a criminal offence or illegal entry. But instead, you say 'Open Frontiers'. Forgotten, we have also the relentless bolshevico, a professional member of the KKE in the past, Mr. Kotzias, your Minister, who says: "Turks have not crossed the red lines. Where did they pass them? Did they screw her up? They didn't sink her. They only broke her. The port ship itself. They've arrested both Greek soldiers and they've been taken captives. They're not red lines!" Red line for him is only his chair. Your chair is the red line! But as you go, it is not certain that your power will be too long. And that appeared very clearly in your Prime Minister's recent visit to Lesvos, Alexis Tsipras. The "popular", the "smiling" had gone to Lemnos previously. Desert island, Lemnos there were no protest gatherings. "You cut my pension" one said to me. 'Come on, all right'. Smile. All right, we're done. But in Mytilini? There were five thousand and more protesting residents. And what did the popular do? He brought the MATs to stop them and beat them. So you're going to make it up to the election season. The grace period is over. Only the MATs can be released. Get that news. The Greek people resist! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] As for them - including the Minister of Justice of the Constantine - who said that those who protested in Mytilini were a fascist minority and chrysayites are honouring us with what they say, but they do not respond to the reality. What responds to the reality is that you are a sad minority. It appears in all political research. Right now, if you had a political honor, you should have resigned. And in trying to get the SYRIZA of ethnicity down, you know it's going to be a national lead the Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u116	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, another bill by the government is trying to turn this Chamber into a arena, where there is a particular tender of sensitivity: who is more sensitive than the other, who is more tolerant than the other, who has values pan-human in relation to others that do not serve all human values, while in this Chamber what is counting is the accountability of the policies that are being pursued. Here, too, we have a government that has a very weak account of real and substantial sensitivity. In view of the issues of refugee and immigration all this time, I will tell you that there is no week when the international media does not focus on the situation of unaccompanied minors in our country. There is no week when an international organization does not ask the government to take steps to address the problem of unaccompanied minors. There is no week in which there are no screams of anxiety among minors who have fallen victim to sexual exploitation, victims of all kinds of farms due to the absence of any protection mechanism. For this absence of the protection mechanism, your Ministry is responsible, it is the National Social Solidarity Centre, which has to present only a minor balance sheet in the last year. I'll just read the numbers to understand. Last year, about this time, there were a thousand two hundred twenty - nine hospitality places. This year, these positions have been reduced to a thousand percent. We've got about 10% reduction over last year. At the same time last year, a thousand four hundred were expected for accommodation places, and today we are talking about two thousand four hundred people who are waiting to find such a accommodation. This is a huge failure at a time when there is a mere funding to deal with. And this failure clearly has a human and political face. It has a badge for your Government and has a badge for your management. I have before me the complaints made by all non-governmental organisations dealing with the issue of unaccompanied minors. The Sunshine organisation says that, while it has submitted its programming and application to be funded for 2018, it has not even been subject to the programme since its staff have remained unpaid. The same occurs in the hospitality structures on the islands - basically on the one island, on the island of Lesvos. In the rest of the islands, even though there is a matter, you have not managed to create any hosting structure for unaccompanied minors. In Chios you have only eighteen places in Samos eight places. We're not talking about them. We are talking about Lesvos of the hundreds of seventy positions that again because of the subordination of funds through your bureaucratic conception to the Ministry of Economy and Development still the programs of 2018 -- and it is May 2018 -- have not been met or paid. We expect some third parties to do the work that the state should do itself. Do you want me to tell you something more? I am really fed up with this delicacy of various SYRIZA officials who say 'neutrally the New Democracy', 'extreme positions'. Today, the SYRIZA office came out and said that racist statements by the Mayor of Milos, who called the "lathing immigrants" fifty-six Pakistanis who arrived by boat in Samos. At the same time, the same SYRIZA press office did not see a statement about Mr Katsiki, who here at this Step, just now had no difference in what he said with the speakers and speakers of the Golden Dawn. The exact same thing he said to the exact same tone with the same philosophy. But Mr. Katsikis is not far right in your eyes, it is necessary to stay in your chair, because through the vote of extremists in your soul, in your mind and in your word you remain in power. Unfortunately, this different dimension you give to values, their humiliation and not their service, the fact that you accept the extreme right-wing delirium, the fascist one - as you would call it, I would call it a racist delirium by Mr Katsiki - and you do not condemn it yourself, makes you lose any contact with any values that the Left may have at one time or consider that you have served. Unfortunately, you have no value but the value of power. She's the one you're serving, she's the one you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u119	Madam Minister, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I do not ask for the floor on personal grounds, but on the occasion of the bill the Member referred to the structures of unaccompanied minors and not, of course, to structures for children, for institutions, for this bill we are debating - so two issues have been raised - and perhaps because one minute's information is needed for what he said, if I may have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u121	Continue, Minister, at the end of a minute, if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u122	Good, Mr. President. My dear colleague, as far as the EPC's information is concerned, you have concealed a large part. Eleven thousand references to minors have been made from 2016 to 2018 in structures, which we obviously monitor and try to organise. Today all the structures you mentioned are under State control in the sense of both functional structures, operating and technical specifications. We've made all the arrangements with them and they're paid properly. Thirdly, the 'two thousand references' does not mean that we have two thousand children on the road. This is a very difficult story, which I would like to explain. As far as children are concerned, it's not exactly their number three thousand. Today is the first time that we are building an electronic platform that will monitor each child's movement, because many of these children have left abroad. So it's not true that there are two thousand children on the streets and a thousand percent in structures. Of course, we are trying every day to open up new structures and we will be very quickly able to inform Parliament solely on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, please give me one minute's floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u125	Please, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u126	I'd like to testify, because I didn't testify, the CRP evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u127	That's not a process now. You're old and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u128	...which states that on the 30th4-2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u129	You want to testify? Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Six hundred and fifty children are homeless, and the location is not mentioned in another three hundred ninety-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u131	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u132	I'll testify to the Minutes so that the Minister knows that at least a thousand children are on the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u133	Two thousand kids you said they were on the streets!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u134	There's a thousand on the streets. The others are different!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u135	Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the cases that we are debating today must not be the occasion of political conflicts, because the future of children who have been abandoned by their natural parents or have been deprived of their natural parents cannot be defined by micro-party purposes. The main task of the policies is to place themselves on these issues, after they listen carefully to those who are appalled. So what do scientists say? Literature and research say in two words: The claim that homosexual children are not so well developed in relation to heterosexual children is unstable. Secondly, self - esteem, anxiety, depression, children’s behavioral problems do not depend on parents’ sexual relations. And thirdly, the upbringing of homosexual parents does not only affect the child’s gender identity. Hundreds of studies carried out over the last decades in Europe and America say that the most important factors for child rearing are three: The quality of relations between parents and between parents and the child, the relationship between the child and important people in his environment, for example grandparents, and finally the economic and other resources available to the child or teenager. Parents ’ sexual orientation, says books, is not a determining factor in the life of the child. Homosexual parents don’t mean problematic children, and of course you don’t get to be gay because your parents are homosexuals. I present in the minutes the full placement of eighty-three universities in Greece and abroad from the wider field of psychology. [[At this point the President of the Party Potami Mr Stavros Theodorakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Scientists say what we all have experienced: there are good parents and bad parents, but heterosexual and bad homosexuals are not good. Besides, there's a hypocritical element. We are in the era of artificial fertilization and parenthood, which also creates new families in Greece, away from the traditional model. Is it not hypocritical, then, that we overflow the assumption? What are we gonna say? That "you who have made a cohabitation pact and you are a man and a woman heterosexual have the right to accept, while you who have made a cohabitation pact and you are homosexuals have no right to accept"? Would it not be unreasonable for this division to exist, apart from the fact that we will immediately be condemned by international courts? As a journalist I fought to change the regime in assumption and adoption, because I saw abandoned children, I saw children and adolescents in dozens of institutions that the state did not even know exist, children who most often suffered from a single disease: founding! Of course I met, as we have obviously all met in our circles, but because of the work I had known a lot more, couples running from office to institution until they lost their patience and were looking for a child in Africa or - even worse and we all know it and we are talking about it - to adopt illegally, taking part in degrading transactions. That is the situation so far, and this must be done. A national register must be created and there must be no children who are unclaimed. The state must know at any time what children are and where they are able to co-operate with couples looking for a child for assumption or adoption. If you have spoken - which everyone will have spoken - with those who have dedicated their lives to the institutions and to these children, you will have been told that no institution, no matter how good it is, can replace a family, even a family lacking, a family with weaknesses. So the state must bear the burden of choosing the couples. This is where I want us! We must ensure that the homes of the assumption, the homes of the adoption are chosen with strict criteria, with transparent and scientific criteria, with prior checks, but also during assumption, to ensure that the child is well and spiritually reversible. Here I would like to give an answer to them - politicians, commentators, journalists - who in the past few days accused the Potami of his clear position in taking up children from homosexual couples. They said that whoever votes for such a provision is supposed to help a disgusting government acquire a sensitive social person. We did not, however, beat and our insistence brought Rule 8 to plenary and I hope that it will be voted on by all Members of the Change Movement. The dogma - and I would like to make a more general reference here - ladies and gentlemen, 'no one yes, never anywhere', even in legislations that correct reality at all, is an insult to democracy. He was praised, of course, in the years of the crisis. "No one yes, never anywhere," the New Democracy said to George Papandreou. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, 'no yes and nowhere', you also said when you were in the opposition, sabotaging even the most necessary reforms. And now some people think it is right to pay the SYRIZA - ANEL with the same currency. Except the country won't go in front of whispers and reunifications. Members are elected to defend citizens' rights, and that is why they are obliged to propose solutions, correct problems, fight to change citizens' lives for the better. They are not elected to wait on the bench for good government or their own government. The constant postponements we are used to giving to the resolution of problems rustle the joints of society, transmit a message of vanity to the citizens and push them into abstention, as nothing changes and every effort is in vain. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that a number of those who today say 'not to accept' because they do not want to support the government are lying. In fact, they dread, fear the reactions of conservative circles, fear metropolitans, fear the cafés, fear to clash with prejudices and not take a position on the assumption of gay couples, mention it in the great political conflict. Politics, however, is not about counting beans in the tail of society. Politics is to lead and finally lead. So, as far as I can, all those who are and who state progressively in this House do not want to close our eyes in reality, in evolution, in logic, in rights. The country needs a major political change, but this cannot only be a governmental rotation. We need to change attitudes, run, prevent developments, fight for tomorrow and not other back-call battles. We are therefore voting for the law, after the necessary amendments we have already tabled, because Potami has been made by us who believe that it is always the right time to do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u137	Mrs Alexandra Papagiga, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, I declare that we are not afraid and that we are not respecting European law and European courts which the Minister has invoked and said that they were taken into account, beyond the general strategic concepts of the draft law. We also totally reject the position that we need to take into account how mature the Greek people are or are not mature. If we took this into account a hundred years ago, under unbearable darkness, the Communist Party of Greece would not place the separation of the Church from the State, which you dare not bring. You want distinctiveness as SYRIZA. We would also not support the equation of children inside and out of marriage in 1918. Today it's easy to say and it's right. It's solved. In any case, that is not the criterion we take into account. The government with excessive self-satisfaction and self-sufficientness brought a bill that makes an effort to drastically reduce the waste of time, the scary time needed to give birth and admission. We hope you will achieve this. It's good. I can't say you're definitely gonna do it, but I really wish it. And the registries you made are good. Of course your boi is here. This is what you compare with the New Democracy or the PASOK and the previous governments. That's where your boe reaches, digitization issues, organizational issues, etc. the fight against bureaucracy, which was appalling in this regard. The essence of the bill is that it is based on obsolete ideas, I would say even in the context of this system that we are living in. The first obsolete idea is the perception of the individual responsibility of the family. It's an obsolete idea. In fact, the family is treated as an individual economic group, which has been overtaken since the last century, not to say that there has been a tendency to overcome since the end of the last century. In other states it had even been overcome before. In fact, the concept of individual responsibility is also linked to privatization. In fact, the bill processed it in the same way and the same methodology that you prepared the bills for privatising PPC's and others. You know, in the field of the economy there is an almost automatic pilot both in capitalism and in a sense - they are different economies - and in socialism, I can say. In social matters, things are much more complex. That's not how it's processed, that's how it's done. You did it the same way. You had an automatic pilot. What does the prevalence of the private sector, the individual - private and privatization seem to be what we say? First of all, one of the criteria - I am not saying that it is the exclusive one - for childbirth, for a couple to have foster children is his financial situation, the wallet. If he even has a fortune to take it to Disneyland, he'll be easier to adopt! I'm not saying that's just that, but it's a basic criterion. If there's a couple who's in financial trouble, it won't even apply to enter the register. You create an institution that is a merchandise, i.e. the professional contractor who is paid and you do not have the parental right for a family that does not have good finances, has low income, has no property, has no maisonette, has no cars, has no bank deposits. They should be backed up. The parental right, therefore, is given to class and those who make the final judgment will take the wallet as the first factor, but of course the other factors, which I do not say will not be taken into account. What does that mean? Family, individual responsibility. Another element of privatization: The final role who has him? The certified social worker. I am not saying that the social worker is not competent and cannot have an opinion or is unable to hold dates. But this is where the concept of collective bargaining is abolished. This is an individual worker, as is the case with engineers and other chambers? Who'll be sent can have backgrounds and sacks and handbags. There's still no criterion for who's gonna make most of the money. Heads will pay the social worker. There is, in any case, the risk of subjectivity, from which no one is free of such a sensitive issue. It's not that I see a positive project that I like and another doesn't like. This is all privatization - let me say this - in the field of social policy. In addition, you are making two political frauds and I say it even if there is a criticism that I am ruining Parliament's political culture. The first political fraud - and you are doing it as Minister, because I have watched the committee, do not look at that I am not many hours here, like your Members - is this: 'In the dilemma, it says, family or institution, the JRC is with the institution'. That's political fraud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u139	That's not what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u140	You said that. I heard Mr Karayannides and others today. I still don't have Alzheimer's. I might get hurt tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u141	Question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u142	I am watching, and you have said so in committee. ‘Recommends the institution’. The word 'institution' is unacceptable. It is independent of the social system. That's how it was in socialism. You said to the committee 'do not see it in the former socialist countries'. Other former socialist countries, other socialism. But I do not want to go too far on this issue. I would like to make this clear: on social issues, in particular social issues, such sensitive issues, perhaps not at all, the value of scientific studies, even if they result in conflicting conclusions, is of great importance. First of all, there were no university reports here because the universities did not deal with such matters. Universities deal with what is sold to businessmen. That takes long-term reports. Some studies have been carried out that have serious weaknesses and have been exploited by the Fascist Golden Dawn, which is appallingly homophobic. He took advantage of them, because these studies, which refer to children of heterogeneous, gay or single-parent families, were contradicted by other university institutions and other scientific groups in the United States. The impact didn't come. What does the impact say? That there was no correct choice of the sample used. Fixed variables were not followed and were limited to the examination of children who were already in childhood and not to the examination of children who were in the early years of adulthood. When you or I go to a psychiatrist or a psychologist, because we have various problems, the first thing he asks us is how our childhood was. That will be asked in all fifty years and sixty and seventy. He's gonna ask us if we have any injuries from our childhood. It is not easy to study such a study. Finally, yes, in this bill you brought, you do not take into account important developments - others that are objectively positive and progressive and others are reactionary and bad, but they all exist - in the institution of the family. You do not take into account developments that are positive in the educational scientific perception of the child, which also concerns the child with the biological parents and the child in childbirth and the child in assumption, etc. You don't take them into consideration at all. You put a dilemma of 'family-institution', which does not respond to the complexity of the problem. You like the dilemma 'black-white'. It doesn't come out like that. I'll tell you what changes and developments are. Today, modern perceptions, even those we are ideologically opposed, say that the child of the family who is a biological child, much more for the other children, should combine life within the family and in a series of social structures - infants, children's stations, centres of creative employment, etc. - because the child cannot grow up solely within a family, no matter how much this family loves and loves this child. That's the one. You don't take that into consideration. The kid wants a family and a hug. Let's take the other side. Successive volunteers - good for them! - What's going on? Women of older age who will take children who may have problems and do not want them for childbearing. They're 50 women, 60 women - good for them! - they're not families that have little children inside, if the kids have serious problems, I'm not talking about simpler. And these women at some point get tired. After two years, they give up. As a contractor, employment is used in some private structures. You didn't even look for them and they change four and five times the family children. These kids go to families that don't have children. There's a professional - I don't know if you're keeping hire books, etc. - who takes four or five children and at night, when he's having a crisis one, they wake up the other four, because to earn an income, you need to get more kids. We're vertically opposed to professional assumption. It could, for example, be combined with children in modern social structures. Close as many as - and private - are not appropriate. Church structures, can't you look for them? Do they have to be children in church structures? I'm not saying why the Church is doing them, but does the children have to be in church structures? Turn them off. Build up modern structures that can combine assumption, as well as socialism and social structures that are within the city's web, not ten kilometers out of town, where children can go out, go to playground. Look, we agree, all children in family, but unfortunately we have new problems that we have experienced in recent years: children in trouble, children in traffic lights, children in circuits, unaccompanied children. This is also a matter where communication with parents may be lost, we do not know if their parents live and cannot be given immediate childcare if this issue is not resolved. Why can't these children combine social structures and foster families with some criteria for foster families? It's better to be in a family where there's another child. There are, therefore, serious issues in the family. You family development can only be seen in terms of sexual orientation, nothing else, and you certainly do not even think about considering what effect a child can have, his adulthood, when he does not grow up in a family with a distinct relationship between a man and a woman, or mother - father. That doesn't get into the conversation, and that doesn't solve when the child is three, four and five years old. Of course, then there's no problem. Why would there be? There are other scientific studies that may be conflicting with each other. All to see them and all to study them, but you first take a position and then use science. Finally, I'm sorry, I'll have a word. Because you said that there are also issues in socialism, I would ask you to study a matter, because the social issues that are caused are not solved by 'automatic pilots' or just so. After World War II, a huge problem was created in the Soviet Union. There were twenty million dead soldiers who were young, because they went to twenty-five, thirty. She wasn't seventy years old, and she wasn't like me. They had children - they were getting married early in the meantime - and there were twenty - million women basically without a man, but also with children. We are not talking, of course, about the injured, the disabled, etc., who were young people at age. So, although the question of protecting the only parental family that has become and these children has been solved, the complex issue is that they were much fewer men and many more women created a whole situation which has been solved - because you are looking very high at socialism - on the basis of the domination of the concept of mutual love. It was not solved on the basis of whether or not a marriage had been made, for that was the basis of that level of life after World War II. So it's solved. Neither with courts nor with trouble nor morality. It was a real problem. Young women, fewer men, men were easily fleeing their relationship and this was now treated socially. Neither the Gospel nor the law nor the courts. It is also important that social issues are not treated with abstract modernism and modernism. It is much deeper and essentially when it comes to the human factor and especially to the child. We will not invoke scientific research that says alpha or beta. However, all scientific research had to come using the right methodology, not those that have a predetermined effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are living in the last period of this government. After all, it could not be different when she expects a political lifesaving from bills like today to save her progressive face. It therefore considered a unique opportunity to create a problem for the opposition parties and especially in the New Democracy under Article 8 of the bill. This is another huge failure of the government that no political benefit will be gained from today's debate. On the contrary, it gives us the opportunity to highlight the multi-accessibility and democratic nature of our party. That is why I welcome the attitude of our party absolutely. Obviously, in principle, we cannot vote 'yes' in a bill that basically incorporates our own proposals, which we did not put forward now, but we have made them since 2016. I shall now refer to the famous Article 8. The New Democracy was and is a great power party. It hasn't happened in the last five years, like SYRIZA. We've learned to live with our disagreements as well, as long as we're in agreement on the basics. Gentlemen of the government, you have no questions. On major issues, the New Democracy is indivisible and united behind its Leader. That is why it can withstand individual views of its officials on issues raised at times, such as the one referred to in Article 8. I fully respect the view and sensitivities of the New Democracy Members who may vote 'yes' in the present article. However, while respecting my own views and sensitivities, I think that I must vote against Article 8. I am explaining: I had expressed my disagreement at the time of discussing the draft law on the cohabitation of homosexual couples, not because I thought that it should not be possible for the couples of couples to be given the opportunity to come together as such because it is their choice, but because I felt that this possibility should not be a precursor to other issues such as as as assumption today and adoption tomorrow. I asked, then, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, that there should be specific legislative controls to avoid this possibility, as, in view of the matter strictly legally, the speculators were evident and since these checks were not legislated, I voted against the draft law. There is a fundamental difference between the cohabitation pact and the assumption by homosexual couples who have concluded a cohabitation pact. At the conclusion of the Pact, the major ones are the ones who conclude it to regulate relations between one another and one another. In that I cannot deny that they have that right. In assumption, however, it is in the best interest of the child, the protection of the child, a child who is likely, when the assumption is made, will be too young. We must ensure that it enters an environment that must be and not put at risk. The choices made by the legislator in this area should minimise risks as it takes the best interests of children. We here in this Chamber must protect them. Let the dissidents forgive me, but I could vote 'yes' only if I was convinced that this is in the best interests of the child. I cannot agree only to pretend to be the progressive one to my constituents. I believe that there has been a debate in the Greek society on this issue, to see what science, paedophiles, teachers, sociologists, other institutions, are saying, how we guarantee these children. We must ensure that generations of children undergo the bowling mark are not lost when they go to school as a couple of couples. Many of your Members, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, are right, expressing their doubts, your reservations, if you like, and let your party not have the same view of pluralism as ours, and I am referring specifically only to the assumption of homosexual couples. If I may, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I think you are unfair to your bill by focusing on this matter by dividing society, rather than focusing on the benefits of the other articles of the bill, for which there is a wide consensus. Society cannot be surprised, nor can it be made to the citizens such extortional dilemmas, that if you do not agree to the assumption and tomorrow with the adoption of children from couples of different sexes, your views are medieval. No, ladies and gentlemen, things don't work that way. I want minors to have clear standards, standard male, standard female, and clear roles, roles of mother, role of father. Therefore, and as things stand, I prefer to be consistent in my view, and I think that is how I express the majority of society in this matter. Because there has been talk, but perhaps other speakers should refer to the ECHR, to the European Convention on Human Rights, on this matter, I would like to make a brief statement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. Besides, I have a minute. What does Article 8 of the ECHR define? It says: 'Each person is entitled to respect for private and family life'. Paragraph 2 states: 'This action is not to be taken by a public authority in the exercise of that right unless it is provided for by the law of the national legislature and is a measure which is necessary in a democratic society for national security, for the protection of morals and others'. Watch out. A negative obligation is introduced for the national legislator. The provision does not permit intervention by a public authority in the exercise of that right, namely the protection of family and private life. However, it sets out, as you will see, the following positive conditions, namely the exception if this intervention is provided for by the law, as I have told you. In other words, this negative obligation is being addressed in the light of the positive conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It follows from these provisions that each Member State maintains a certain margin of assessment in order to achieve a fair balance between the competitive interests of the individual and society as a whole. The competitive public interest referred to in Article 8(2) shall be called upon to protect the State in its domestic law, specifying the regulatory content of the right referred to in paragraph 1, Mrs Kosobol. Therefore, there is no obligation to take adoption by homosexual couples and, in addition, non-legislation does not conflict with the principle of equality. This morning, Mrs Christophilopoulou, whom I very much appreciate, referred to a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on a French application to the European Court of Justice, because she was not given an admission. I guess we have the same case in mind. What was that case? It was mentioned in 2008, I think it was the same and it says that the authorities rejected the request for adoption, which would otherwise be legal, because it was based solely on the applicant's sexual orientation alone and was not mentioned in the interest, i.e. whether it was in the interests of the child.’ However, take note of another basic decision - which is called 'Frette' - which is said, on behalf of homosexuals, for the adoption of homosexuals - that the court recognised 'World margin of assessment in the States and ultimately found it fair to refuse the authorities to allow the adoption of a single homosexual, invoking, inter alia, the need to protect the best interests of the child. It has recently come out of a decision in 2012, again from the European Court of Justice, again insulting the French decision. "He judged the court", I read you exactly, "that the refusal of the authorities to allow the adoption of a homosexual requester who wished to adopt the child of her partner was not a discrimination." And you know why? Explanation: ‘Because the legal situation of the two women was not comparable to that of the married couple’. These, to close the issue of adoption...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Athanasios, come on, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u146	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u147	Mr Athanasios, I think the tolerance of the Bureau was enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, not to mention Article 12, which I must read...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u149	No, don't read it. Mr. Athanasios, please, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u151	Okay, patience we show, understanding we show, tolerance we show, three minutes you've got. The other Members will rightly want additional time for them and they are fifty more speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u152	I'm done. Let me remind you, I will testify here, what Mr. Paradoxopoulos said from the Minutes then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u153	We don't protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u154	Yes, when you go up, Mr. Cryazides, to Step, you say. You may say below that we do not protest, but when you go up to the Step and start ringing the bell for the end of the year, then all of you remember and ask for tolerance. Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u155	I thought I had to do a scientific analysis of the provisions of the ECHR, because there is a great deal of confusion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, I would like to say this: Do not forget that, in the vote on the Pact between the sexes of the same sexes, it has been tabled by a parliamentary amendment at the last minute, a few minutes before the vote, a provision which, Mr President, abolished the mercilessness of nature. And that's what I'm afraid of - and then I said - he was a forerunner for the legislation you're bringing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u156	Give me, then, a minute before I give the floor to the next speaker. Let me inform the House that there is a request from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group concerning a roll-call vote on Article 8 of the bill. The second thing I wanted to say to the House is that, as you know, this morning at the beginning of the sitting, it was set today's sitting to end around 22:30 at night, which means that if we keep the time, this seven-minute period, we can reach the number fifty on the list of speakers. We're in nineteen, make a calculation, they're about thirty more speakers plus-out. So, with the aim of completing today's sitting and tomorrow, as the Bureau said, at 10 a.m., starting and ending at 14.00 at noon strictly, beginning as you have already understood, but above all the roll-call vote, I would ask this House - apart from whether there are any disagreements, what we are putting as the Bureau, tell us - to keep the time, the seven-minute period, so that they can speak as many speakers today as possible. Because tomorrow, if you make an account, it's four hours from 10:00 to 14:00. Four parliamentary representatives are lacking and are unknown if the chairpersons of Parliamentary groups will also speak. So a warm request - and I am closing with it - to keep the seven-minute. Now let us give Mrs Arabaji the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very difficult and very sensitive subject through the pages of this bill. We're talking about the kids. For children who have not yet had the chance to grow in a family environment with love and care. We are talking about children in institutions, waiting for how and how to find themselves again in an environment of heartfelt and family happiness and to grow up without blows and mental injuries. Today's bill regulates issues of children's adoption and assumption and one would expect self-evident. It was a bill that would unite society and, of course, political forces. Instead, once again SYRIZA chose to play with this sensitive theme and use it to refresh his supposed left and supposedly progressive identity. He brought a bill that includes the famous article 8, for the assumption of children, and of homosexual couples who have made a cohabitation agreement. A regulation that has divided society. A regulation that has tried to split your own SYRIZA, namely, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. At one point Mrs Fotou is right when she says that focusing the debate on this article is unfair to the rest of the bill. But it is the sole responsibility for this it has the same responsibility as for its operations. The principle of the New Democracy Act has stated that we are in agreement with the basic provisions. Besides, this bill, even with too much delay, covers very much, I would say, loans, proposals that our party had put forward in time and justified terms for the assumption and adoption since July 2016. Proposals which could form the basis for a constructive debate and for dialogue, because in our own logic, ladies and gentlemen, human and political logic, everyone's first concern is the child and his interest. Our concern is to dismantle the children and take them to the families. However, Mrs Fotou has chosen the path of a minimum debate. It is characteristic that the bill has been put into public consultation for a very short time, less than a month and has come to the House with a very long delay leaving open issues that are dealt with skinally, such as the issue of assumption, the reduction in the theoretical time for social research from six months to three months without explaining how it will proceed in such a short period of time, the lack of any provision, despite the relevant points made by the institutions in the committee, for training programmes for officials involved in the critical issues of assumption and, of course, the judicial system for the protection of minors. The New Democracy had proposed solutions in time for subsistence in order to address the thorn of this huge year, but you see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your interest in the state is exhausted in the appointments of best friends, relatives, of the party state of SYRIZA. I now come to Article 8 which has caused the greatest debate, the most noise in and out of Parliament. The Government has chosen to bring children into the secret, without any reference to the matter, neither in the explanatory statement nor in the draft law itself, nor in the assessment of the consequences of the regulation. You hid it, Minister, because you also feared your MPs, as they were, but especially your government partner, the ANELs, who every time you bring relevant bills are across and vote 'no'. Of course, they always support your government and uninterruptedly. But the order has come to the surface, and at that time the strong reactions of society that are opposed to this regulation began. You systematically ignore society, not only with your disastrous economic policies but also with policies that touch the sensitivities of its traditions, social fabric and cohesion. The commitments of the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Nicos Paradropoulou, in 2015 are still ringing in my ears. In defending the cohabitation pact of homosexual couples and in reply to Members' complaints that you are opening the ferry for the adoption of children from gay couples, he said attributes - I read from the Minutes: "Just because this fear was formulated by one of the legislative improvements, I would clarify that it is clear that under the terms “requirements, benefits, privileges”, it cannot in any way be understood to adopt neither socially, nor logically, nor legally. Therefore, childcare is not regulated.’ That's what Mr. Paradise said. In addition, Mrs Fotio has rushed to clarify that assumptions will not lead to the adoption of children from gay couples. Obviously, we understand, Mr President-in-Office, that assumption and adoption are two different concepts of law. In practical terms, however, socially and logically, to use the words of Mr Paraskevilos, the distance is indiscriminate, as the daily lives of the two concepts are little. In adoption the child lives and grows with the foster parents, who have his custody. In the assumption, the child lives and grows with foster parents, simply having the custody of natural parents. On the substance, therefore, with your bill the receptive child can normally grow into a family of couples with a cohabitation agreement, regardless of whether there is no formal title of adoption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u158	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u159	So the same influence - you - in his psychiatry, the same reactions, the same possible stigma, bullying, in his school and social circle, but also in his first sensitive years will accept the child, regardless of whether it is by assumption and not by the strict concept of the term of adoption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u160	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u161	Don't interrupt me, you're disturbing me. No one can rule out, of course, your rapporteur, in his excess of light, that assembling children from gay couples may have consequences, of course, on children and on their sexual orientation, when there are even strong scientific opinions supporting it. When, then, our highest concern is the interest and happiness of the child, who will protect it when it sees a different social and family reality from the one he is experiencing? As far as the constitutional sensitivities of Mrs Fotio are concerned, she said that she cannot make a distinction between couples who have made a cohabitation agreement on homosexuals and heterosexuals, because such arrangements would be swallowed in the courts, she must be aware that there are many authoritarians who claim that there can be a wording of the article in question in order to deal exclusively with heterogeneous couples, without raising any question of unconstitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to say that I have unlimited respect for everyone's right and choice of self-determination. Above all, I respect, however, and propose the state's obligation to guarantee the interests of children, who do not have the right to choose. My conscience dictates the vote against Article 8, as you cannot lightly shape institutions which society morally expels, insisting faithfully on values such as the institution of the family.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Mrs Keroyannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, taking steps to remove the problems and speed up the procedures for decontamination of minors who are lacking in parental care must be a common objective for all of us. As a common objective, provision should be made for the creation of appropriate structures to ensure the care and progress of children undergoing assumption and adoption. I would like to point out, of course, that such issues relating to sensitive social issues must be prepared better over time, with more information to the public. These initiatives should not be subject to reasonable impressions and awarding advancement prizes. After all, you are not the only one who enjoys this privilege, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I am not even referring to ANELs, because they are simply dragging, paying the price of power. Progress, ladies and gentlemen, means listening to society, not underestimating it, not shaking its finger, sharing it and opening its way to the future with respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal and administrative regulation of the institutions for adoption and assumption is a matter of paramount importance for a European social rule of law. The design and reform of the legislative framework must be based on the best suited to the needs of the social system as a whole. With respect to the culture of Greek society, the legislator must intervene to regulate the gaps and weaknesses that increase a social problem. It must proceed in areas where these are necessary in order to normalise social dysfunction. Simplifying and speeding up the adoption and assumption procedures brings our country closer to other European societies. To date, the average assumption and adoption of founded children is far from European. The painful and time-consuming adoption procedures combined with the continuous decline in the standard of living in the country have led the National Statistical Office to a reduction in the number of adoptions in recent years. On the other hand, assumption is a beneficial social protection institution for minors. The child does not legally belong to foster parents, i.e. he is still a legitimate child of his natural parents, which is why the process falls within a more flexible legal framework. Unfortunately, in Greece the institution of the assumption of minors remains fairly degraded and is not adequately implemented. The responsibility for this is burdening the state and not obviously the Greek society. The state had not proceeded with the targeted and responsible information of the Greek citizens and had not, as it were, proceeded with the awareness of the social group about the serious consequences of closed institutional care for the child. Thus, proper and comprehensive information on alternative forms of care for children who are lacking in childcare is essential in order to achieve the necessary social response. Madam Minister, I told you before that we wanted society as an ally and arrogant for such important interventions rather than for us. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr L.4356/2015 in Article 1 provides for the possibility of two minors to regulate their cohabitation by a notary document, regardless of their gender. Article 8 of today's draft law provides for the possibility of obtaining the status of a parent contractor to those who have signed a cohabitation agreement. In addition, existing legislation so far allows fostering parents and individual or single parent families to become fostering parents. The European Union has laid down rules aimed at eliminating any discrimination affecting the right to self-determination and self-determination of the individual. The development of personality with all expressions, without exceptions, is a supreme and fundamental human right. This right cannot be exercised on a case-by-case basis. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights is rich, according to which any concept of exclusion and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is absolutely unacceptable, as articles of the European Convention on Human Rights are considered to be infringed. This is the one dimension of the issue. The other concerns the scientific community, which rightly argues that the founding of infants and young children poses a high risk of a variety of problems, both in physical and social development. The intervention of the fifty-five Greek academics in the public debate of the bill is fertile, both as regards the information of the Greek society and the avoidance of delimitation on the basis of discrimination on the basis of the right to take up a parental role. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time today that we approach the institutions of assumption and adoption with a view to promoting the interest of the sensitive social group of children who are not receiving parental care, on the basis of the fundamental obligation of a European rule of law to respect the human value and constitutional rights which specialise it and with respect for the provision of scientific research on the issues of the protection of the physical, mental and mental health of children in closed institutional care. Since the legislator must and must intervene in the necessary modernisation areas in order to promote the social interest, I support the need to find a realistic solution, which will regulate with respect and efficiency such a major social problem. After all, social progress and the defence of individual freedoms and rights in modern Greek society are not the privilege of the Left. It is right and obligation for all of us and all of us who believe in open, democratic and liberal societies, in societies of solidarity, protection and welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u164	Here comes Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. This is where the New Democracy has bright beacons, torches of truth, sincerity, solidarity and social sensitivity. I liked your word, Mrs. Kefaliannis, and I declare it publicly. It is only just before you that Mrs Arabatzi and Mr Athanasios spoke here. Let's see who's right. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the three years that we are Members of Parliament - most of us are 'fresh', others are professional, they are entire decades - we have noticed that, after all, the legislation that comes in this House, comes after great legal, political and ideological adventures. And why am I saying it? Isn't that what happened to citizenship? Didn't that happen with the cohabitation pact before with the battle of identities? Even before the fight against the change of family law and the decriminalisation of adultery, when the whole society stood up against the bill, because they said the family was falling apart? And what's happened since 1983? It was the last country in Europe to demolish adultery. Where were the Europeans, the 'emerging Europe' and the supporters of European law and European civilisation at that time? Then they blamed Papandreou's government for breaking down the trio "Patris - family religion". Look what happened. The family code has become indisputably fully accepted by society and has helped both society and its members. The same is happening today. The cries you hear at all levels in the panels, serious scientific objections, that is to say, that the tripartite 'father - family' is at risk, that is, the three-fold tripartite of the seven-year-old dictatorship. In 1969, hospitalized at Hippocrates by George Seferis - he had just taken Nobel and never left the hospital unfortunately - listen to what he wrote in the pain of his illness - of course addressed the dictators. He wrote a huge poem. Heading: 'From stupidity'. "Greek fire! Greek fire! Christian fire! Three words dead. Why did you kill them?" Let's not do the same today. We don't have that right. I had written a speech, Mr President, and I had in mind others. However, while listening to colleagues from the other parties a moment ago, I have to respond to some things. Mrs Karamanlis came here an hour ago and said that the bill creates a lack of distinction and discrepancy between the concepts of assumption and adoption. She repeated it here, and Mrs. Arabaji repeated it. Well, don't you have lawyers in your party? Do you know how different the concept of adoption is from assumption? Years of light! Differences are colossal. It's structural differences. And why, my colleague? We lawyers at least know them from our student years. Adoption is a legal bond, which means that the child adopted is like the child born of two natural parents, with all rights acquired by a natural child. He's related to the parents. He has a relationship with the relatives of the parents who adopt it. It's a natural child. The assumption does not create a legal link either with the contractors or with the contractors' relatives. It's a social bond. And here before I heard Mr Athanasios say how easily there is a risk that the door of childbirth will be opened to the same couples. The symphony pact, he says, said so then. And now the bill opens that door. Mr. Athanasios, you were Minister of Justice and an excellent judge, from what your colleagues say, and a knowledgeer of legal science. Don't you know that in order for a child to move from his physical family to anyone else, even if he is a homosexual couple, serious conditions must be met? First and foremost condition - and we must all say this here in this Chamber - to leave a child from his physical family is to live a nightmare at all levels, economic nightmare, emotional nightmare, interpersonal nightmare. It is not taken by the state service or structures that have been created and operated by its natural family to go to another heterogeneous or homogeneous couple like this and as it happened, because this was “carved” in the state structure or service. There are problems, which is the nightmare of the child. Tell me what you're answering. What's got to be done? To keep the child living a nightmare? That's why these bills and those structures are made. Is that what you have an answer to? What do you say? The child, mentally injured at all levels, stay in natural parents, where one can be in prison, the other doesn't know what he can do? But when we talk about assumption, that's what we want to solve, so don't you ever forget and always have in your mind that assumption does not create a legal link. The child, when he goes to foster parents, is still considered parents, natural parents, and so at any time, even when he wants it to grow up or under other conditions, can go to his physical family. Don't get confused, because I hear words that for us lawyers are crazy things, such as that the relationship between the concepts of assumption and adoption is indiscriminate. It's absurd, it's crazy things. That's the one. And there's something else I want to say. It's not only a nightmare when it's close to natural parents. It needs to be judged by the relevant social workers and the services that it is compulsory to do so, that is to say, to leave their natural parent and go somewhere else. This must be judged by the services, by the sociologist, by the child psychologist, by the psychotherapist. Some people have to judge it. So, what's all this scaring us? The kid's gonna leave to live somewhere better. He won't leave to go somewhere worse. This serves the bill. And think, Minister, and take it into consideration - to finally know how this country is struggling with conservative and fearful issues - that Cyprus established the assumption in 1956 with a child law and was more bold the law of 1956 than our bill. Let the New Democracy colleagues hear that. In 1956 the assumption was introduced, while in Greece the assumption was first introduced by bill 2447/1996, that is, forty years. And Cyprus was not a state at the heart of Europe. It's an almost homogeneous and homogeneous nation that we're living in the same conditions. This is to understand the long delays we have in this country on a number of issues. Let's go further, Mr. President. I do not believe that it will happen at the level of Heads of State and again to hear from the Head of New Democracy about another alien, not the Hymittos, about the Highness, he told us that the 15-year-old children in surgery will be running to change sex - but rather the Penteli where gay couples will run assemble the children by deceiving the scientific service of state structures and by waiving all the conditions laid down by the law. Don't listen to them again today. All this, ladies and gentlemen, which we are discussing today, is what these terrible perceptions and resistances are, when are I going to say? Two hundred and twenty years after the Enlightenment and the Declaration of the French Revolution. Do you want me to remind you what the preamble to the French Revolution said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Lappa, that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u167	I shall conclude, Mr President. The representatives of the French people, because we believe that ignorance, oblivion and contempt for human rights - I stress the words 'human rights' - are the sole reasons for the common misfortune and corruption of governments, which is why we are deciding today to declare the defence of human rights, which is the following and which describes them. So now, two hundred and twenty years after these things, we are still discussing the self-evident things they have, as I said, been solved in Cyprus forty-five years ago. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u168	That's what you said you were going to finish. So we should give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u169	I do not want to quote, Mr President, the basic choices. But I am making a point. It is very important that Article 15, which speaks of withdrawals. I am addressing the lawyers here above all. Apart from Articles 1662 and 1663, the lifting of the assumption could be made, according to the code, only natural parents, commissioner and court, if the contractors were appointed by judicial decision. Now, with the bill, we have a very comprehensive provision, where all concerned can now withdraw the assumption, and the parents themselves, even at the sole request of the competent prosecutor, when research or publications inform the child to the foster parents that the child is not going through well or at least passes worse than was going through with their natural parents. Therefore, all interested parties can now withdraw the assumption for certain reasons in favour of the interests of the child. And I'm ending up, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u171	It was a long speech. I conclude with a phrase of 1940.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u172	You said you were done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u173	Listen, Mr. President. It's two rows. It's a 1940 phrase. George Theotokas: "The Greeks cannot believe that a man who thinks differently from them can be a very worthy, very honest, very useful man. Only those who agree with us are worthy, honest, useful. All other fire and axe". Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very great opportunity today with this bill that our country at least does not come to the European courts. And that's not all, but in circumstances of cruel austerity and comitology, not to pay 40, and 70, and 80 million fines for such convictions. Let this stop at last, in the interests of both the economy and the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u174	Mr Papaliou and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Kefaloyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the assumption of minors is intended to destabilise and integrate into a family environment, children who need special care and care. They are children up to eighteen years of age who before they were placed in child protection and care units were either exponentially, either abandoned or abused by their natural parents or committed the same criminal offences. Most of these children, whether they had no family or natural parents, were unable to meet their obligations and inappropriate to exercise parental care. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] It has been proven - and all my fellow speakers have said so - that closed care structures are not the best environment for the child's psychosocial, emotional and educational development and its inclusion in society. In this context, assumption is an instrument for child protection. The present draft law sets out preconditions and taking into account the opinion of all interested parties, is checked and judged whether the separation of the child from his or her natural family is in his interest. To date, there has been a lack of valid statistics, which are collected by the Registrars of the Protocols, following the announcement of adoption and limited registration in the National Register of Adoption. Moreover, there is poor to non-existent and fragmented supervision over the institutions where children are placed, since it is centrally exercised by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and decentralised by the regions and municipalities, while the coordinating role of the state is non-existent. However, the institution of adoption is also aimed at child protection, but also at meeting the need for children to be married to spouses who have an impossibility for biological acquisition. In this context there are problems, such as the long delays in the management of the relevant applications, or the non-recording and mapping of children hosted in institutions following prosecutor's orders and judicial decisions and their non-promotion for family integration and rehabilitation, the existence of multiple legal and procedural obstacles concerning children, which are hosted in closed care structures, the absence of follow-up to social protection actions. The current draft law aims to reduce the time of completion and also to clarify the procedures involved. To this end, a Advisory Advisory Body, the National Admission and Adoption Council shall be established to facilitate the cooperation of stakeholders and the provision of advisory services to child protection bodies. Insert the National Register of Minors, which records all children hosted in child protective units. The National Register of Candidate Parents is introduced, which includes all those wishing to adopt a child or to become a foster parents, provided that they fulfil the legal requirements and have followed the mandatory education, training and advisory programme. The institution of the award of social research and of social exposure to certified persons, by the Association of Social Workers, social workers, is introduced. This reduces waiting time and dismantles social services. In addition, the institution of the occupational assumption for children with chronic health and behavioural problems is established, the establishment of short-term assumption and the insurance coverage of children in assumption by the parent insurance institution, as well as the financial support of parent contractors by a single body is undertaken. It is obvious, Minister, that all this will be judged in practice. Unfortunately, the debate on the assumption of minors and adoption has been overshadowed by the arrangements for the assumption of minors by homosexual couples and this is unfair to the overall content of the bill. Indeed, there are objections and objections to the assumption of a minor by homosexual couples associated with a cohabitation agreement. Of course, I must say that in the course of the debate on the bill in the committee responsible, and today in plenary the objections and objections are falling. However, they still exist. With regard to these objections, I would like to make it clear that assumption is, in any case, a legal possibility and not a real situation. The question whether a particular couple is fit to assume the role of a contractor, if it fulfils the essential conditions, is judged by the relevant social service and by the courts. In this context, the objections are unfounded, much more so that even the adoption of a homosexual, since the law does not provide for anything different, that is, it does not exclude persons of another sexual orientation from making adoptions. In any case, the assumption of minors is not a adoption, in which only couples associated with marriages, as provided for by the law, can be made. At the time of adoption, the foster parent fully replaces the natural parent, that is to say, obligations and rights. At the time of the taking up of the parent, the parent is limited to the actual care of the child and possibly coexists with the natural parent and even has an obligation to cooperate with him. Subscribers do not exercise parental care, which in many cases is exercised by natural parents, of which the child is not cut off. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to exclude homosexual couples, it would be a matter of violating the principles of equality and regulations of the European Convention on Human Rights. And yet, the legislative improvement of Article 8(1), paragraph 2, I think that it removes any reservations that exist since the choice is made ad hoc, not necessarily in the reference order of potential candidates, as envisaged in the original version of the bill, but I repeat ad hoc in view of the interests of the minor in the light of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that opposition parties and fellow Members are also in favour of voting in favour of the bill. This time it seems that the constructive opposition is prevailing and not the irresponsible opposition cries. Thus, it turns out that there is room for wider consensus when common sense and good faith were persecuted. As far as the rest of the people who will vote against the bill are concerned, I am lending a petition from Evangelos Venizelos, who in reply to a member of his party said that "no one has the political and moral right to use issues of human rights on the basis of instant regularity. Anyone who wants to make credible opposition has many other topics to choose". It is enough, of course, for this report to be a norm for the opposition parties' attitude and not an opportunityal approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u176	Colleague, if you'd like, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. The arguments put forward by colleagues in the opposition are, unfortunately, not apparent, regardless of the vote they will give this bill. Do you know why? For many times, ladies and gentlemen, you are subjected to the temptation of micropoliticalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. We also lived this in the Chamber, seeing a SYRIZA MP defending Evangelos Venizelos, something unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u180	You're forgetting Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u181	Let's solve this with each other. But it seems to me that we still have a great deal to see in this Chamber! I shall begin my speech in response to something I have heard from my dear colleague Mr Lappa. He wondered the dear colleague, who was the New Democracy in the 1970s or the early 1980s, about Europe, about 'Measure Europe', and what its positions were. Let me remind my dear fellow Member that the fact that I have the honour of being - then personally I was unborn - was indeed the father of the previous speaker - was a Member of the Arcadias with New Democracy - fighting to get into the hard core of Europe. The others said: 'EEC and NATO the same union'. At the same time, others lived with socialist paradises. They believed that in the iron curtain there was heaven! From that point on, where was each party in the early 1980s and where it was in the late 1970s...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u182	We don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u183	We come from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u184	You may not like it, but that's reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u185	Come on, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u186	I know you didn't like it, but, politically, everyone knows where he was. Before I go to the bill, I'd like to make a comment. In recent times I have heard as the last political argument from the Greek and SYRIZA that "we may have had political fraud or fraud, but at least we have not stolen, we are at least honest". Unfortunately, news has been overwhelmed by cases in which at least shadows exist, which have not been answered by the government. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Listen. We're having a political dialogue here. You can answer when you get the floor. I understand the irritation. We had the resignation of a well-known scientist from Mr. Krimizis' Greek Space Organisation - it was not our choice, Mr. Pappas was - who resigned by saying that there was abuse, that he was deceived by Mr. Pappas in order to place himself in the organization and that while he promised him worthy, he began, as he said, to park friends and acquaintances. I've been filing for his practical excerpts from today's interview. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, it appears that instead of creating Greek NASA they went to create the Greek "masa"!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, please, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u188	I understand your irritation, ladies and gentlemen. Let's go to the second case. There was a complaint a few days ago that a businessman was approached by a consultant from Mr. Tsakalotou, Mr. Pouliasis in particular, and a miserable EUR 1.8 million was requested. This case - and well - is in justice. However, there are some questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, you do not sound, it sounds like a turbulence. Let Mr. Kefaliannis finish his speech and if there's any objection, you'll be placed afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u190	Mr Colleague, you know very well that as a Parliamentary representative I can comment on topicality. I'll go to the bill too. You know - at least those of you who know me in this Chamber - that I am always placed on the bills. A complaint was therefore made about a EUR 1.8 million misappropriation. In fact, part of the hatred, according to the complainants, I do not adopt it, is the case in justice - it would go to Mr Tsakaloto as well. Question No 1, by Mr Pouliasis remains an advisor to Mr Tsakalotou yet? Question two: If all this is a construction or a fiction of Mr Lebanese's imagination, why has there so far been no legal action against him? Question 3: Why has the government delayed the referral of the case to justice? Of course there are also some questions for justice, for we are all judged both within and outside this Chamber. Why has Mr Lebanese not been asked to prove the truth of his names? And how is it explained, while there is so much sensitivity to other cases - we recently had the NOVARTIS case here in Parliament, and then there were three anonymous complaints, and now it is a last name complaint - that the case has not been referred back to Parliament? Third case. A scandal with anticancer drugs was very well revealed in public hospitals. I am obviously not saying that it is the government's fault for this. But the question is: While, in one case, NOVARTIS, we see that there are political complaints even against former Prime Ministers, that they should have had the supervision, that they should have looked at what was going on, and so on, there is no political supervision here? The hospital managers don't have any political responsibility? The hospital administrations are still or not? Don't they have any political responsibility? Should the head of the Ministry of Health not at least ask for their resignation? We, from this step, are asking for at least their immediate dismissal. One has to take political responsibility. The damage caused by the Greek State was 25 million and, of course, also the cancer patients and no one has at present taken any political responsibility. I am not talking about the head of the Ministry of Health, but about the hospital administrations, which should have done better to control. So let's go to the bill so there won't be any trouble with colleagues. Before I place myself, Minister, on the bill, I think I should give you an answer to what you have said recently in your radio and television shows in relation to the New Democracy's commitments to combat poverty and the forthcoming new reduction in pensions from your own government. If I remember correctly, you also had an interview with ERA saying that Mr Mitsotakis' commitment to increasing this budget to 1 billion out of 760 million was a political auction. In fact, you have wondered - if I have also noted well - in this interview 'where was New Democracy all these years that has been implemented for the first time since 2017'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u191	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u192	I would remind you, Minister, that the minimum guaranteed income has been legislated and implemented for the first time by the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK, and indeed by Mr Brutsis. I would also remind you that at the time the complaints and the lyrics of SYRIZA, who was against the opposition, against the implementation and implementation of the minimum guaranteed income, were proveable. I think that at some point in this Chamber at least one honest attitude must prevail, I would say. You remember that you - not personally, I mean as a party - reacted then by saying that it is a bad arrangement and that since you came to the government, not only did you not abolish it - and you did well not abolish it - but you are applying it and you cannot have the originality of this particular arrangement. Of course, you have applied it to some extent since it was imposed by the institutions with which you are speaking. With regard to your question about where the New Democracy will get the money to implement what it says, I would like to read from the Minutes of the EUROGROUP of 22 January: "The social dividend money was paid in December, because the government of will or bureaucracy did not pay equal amounts of social funding provided for in the budget." I haven't changed one word. The institutions tell you something else and must be recorded. They say that about 60% of social benefits goes to the highest of 40% of the income scale. I think if you combine these two proposals, Minister, you will see where the money can be found. Let's go to pensions. In your own TV interview this time you recommended that pensioners hurry slowly, implying that the forthcoming cuts will not be implemented. Yesterday a question was tabled by the Members of the New Democracy asking you what exactly are the reductions that the government has agreed to impose on pensions from 1 January 2019, how many pensioners are involved in this area as well. Also, to how many new and old pensions - after the Katrugalou law was passed - the reduction has already been implemented due to the personal difference. Of course, Minister, while you do not give answers to these questions, all the pensioners and workers in this country will be in complete upset and will reasonably fight every day for the new painful and inappropriate reductions in pensions that your government has agreed to implement. The bill now. Minister, I think you will agree with me that the regime for acceptance and adoption currently in existence in the country does not honour our political system as a whole, does not honour the extremely small percentage of adoptions. The long-term wait for adoption, which even reaches seven years, is not honoured. Of course, as many other colleagues have said, we are not honoured by the fact that at the moment there are children who are currently in the foundations, and that their number is two to three thousand. We are also not honoured by the fact that we have basically reached the point today of admitting the collapse of the child protection system. So, in this sense, we welcome your attempt to improve this situation. We, as a New Democracy, and through our rapporteur, told you that we were also positive at first in the bill. We do not take your stand as opposition, with 'no' in everything. And the majority of these articles will vote 'yes'. You will only allow me to tell you that in order for your own initiative to become effective, more than just a sense of sensitivity, with the usual features, of a password, and certainly more than a common tampering that the SYRIZA and Independent Greek Government has used to us. I hope that after three and a half years in the government benches you will have abandoned wishful wishes that complex issues, such as what we are discussing today, can only be settled by voting for a bill directly and that it is not an effort that the state must take before the draft is passed and, of course, when it is implemented. I also hope that you will be aware of a number of problems that your bill currently does not only solve, but also affects, so that we may later be able to legislate as a Parliament of the Greeks. I would therefore say that, in addition to the positive things I mentioned earlier, that is to say the fact that at the moment, the incentives and facilities are being given to contractors and insurance cover to children, there is indeed a compulsory training of the candidates, subject to professional assumptions for children with disabilities or mental illness, and the attempt to reduce the time of completion of the adoption process, there has also been a number of issues that I think you should see as a Ministry. They are issues such as fragmentation, but also overlap between different bodies, lack of coordination between the relevant bodies, which unfortunately leads to delays, the treatment of illegal circuits, mentioned by many speakers, the introduction of an exclusive deadline for the completion of the judicial part of the adoption, the programming of Community funds for information and awareness-raising the institution of the assumption. This is all, unfortunately, issues which are not only sorted out, but neither are they raised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary, what we have heard once again are new announcements, such as the ones you have made on the public radio about a national strategy on decoupling and even a new framework law on the institutions of the country. I shall, of course, stand - and because of the size of the public debate - in the very essence of what is affected by Article 8, particularly the legal possibility of assumption, which is given to the couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. Minister, as has been the case before with the cohabitation pact itself or the legal recognition of gender change, so now the assumption of children by homosexual couples has been proclaimed by too many in the Chamber as a'stone chain' of social modernization. Aegne, anyone who disagrees or maintains certain reservations as introduced by the institution is immediately characterised as a conservative, anachronistic or restraining conservative social groups resisting the recognition of rights in certain social groups. In fact, some colleagues have also invoked the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which, in Article 14, prohibits - and quite rightly - the discrimination of people based on sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other beliefs or even national or social origin. However, the question, ladies and gentlemen, is: Is this the case? My view is that assumption, like adoption, cannot be a criterion for determining the scope of the rights of candidate parents. It is my belief that we have nothing to do with both a step in the simulation of homosexual couples with heterosexuals as well as the provision of care to young children, who did not have the chance to have their natural parents grow up. And because there are many times invoking the case-law of the European Court of Justice, I think we should put at least two data in the debate. The first is that there is no general guidelines for adoption and, indeed, we would say that on many points it is also contradictory. The second and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, is that from the case-law of the European Court of Justice, it follows that different treatment based on sex, religion or other situation is sometimes necessary if the results of this situation raise a specific question under investigation. If, for example, one's religion can explain practices or behaviour - and what I am saying to you is the case law of the European Court of Justice - which have an effect contrary to the interests of children, then this situation can be legally taken into account when the happiness of children is at stake. It is the case of Ishmailova v. Russia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u193	Finish, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u194	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, what will happen if, for example, tomorrow, the Greek social services and the judicial authorities take as a negative factor the family environment in which the fostering child of a couple is to live? Are we going to invoke sexuality?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u195	That's right! They'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u196	Wait a minute. Do not rush, Mr Lappa, because you are an excellent lawman, but on the other hand you are also excellent in turning and creating a situation which is not the real one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u197	I never do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u198	So will we - and I conclude - use sexual orientation and appeal to the European Court of Justice in order to prohibit discrimination against us, even if the sexual orientation of the couple is a reason, for example, for the child's inappropriate socialisation? I always say that on the basis of the case-law of the European Court of Justice. It was also argued that it is for the benefit of a child to grow from a homosexual couple who is willing to spend time and is able to give care and love than from a social structure such as the foundation. Let me note here that the reason why we consider it best for a child to grow up in a foster family than in an institution is not only because it is able to give care and love to a child. Obviously, it's one of the main reasons. However, the other main reason is that a foster family is able to ensure better than an institution the normal social integration of the child. We also need to take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Kefaliannis, please, we've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u200	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why it makes me extremely negative to try to reduce the issue of social stigmatism by some. So it comes from this bill, even as a reference - and I close with it, Mr President - the need to draw up a plan for the prevention, psychological support, research and support of the educational community and the local social structures, which will provide a way out of the problem of social stigmatism. But that's not what the bill does. And that, Minister, is something you should see, obviously because you hope that the problem will also be solved by means of ordinary political tactics. But that is what you need to see, because it is the children who will ultimately be the victims of this situation. We in this case, and by our rapporteur, have explained our positions. We're here so we can improve what's going on with the bill. We are positive to almost all of the bill with the reservations we have in specific articles. In addition, you adopt proposals that the New Democracy publicly submitted in 2016 From there on, take note of the fact that the Qualified Opposition maintains a responsible attitude, of course contrary to what you have done as opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and six educational attendants from Fira Santorini Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u202	Mr. President, could I have the floor for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u203	Here, Minister, you have the floor to explain exactly what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I am going to address the humanitarian crisis and poverty, which the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has just mentioned. Mr. Vardinoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u205	You mean Kefaliannis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u206	Wrong, wrong. I wanted to say, Kefaliannis. They're big families and I'm confused. Excuse me. Something has happened that you don't know, as it turns out. The Greek people suffered a huge crisis, a crisis of great poverty and poverty from 2008 to 2015, and there was not a single piece of yours facing this huge volume, except for a pilot project at the end of 2014, just before you fell, in which you put 20 million euros all and everything to deal with poverty and the great crisis. You haven't seen her for so many years, as you didn't see the children who fainted in schools. So you put 20 million euros all and everything! And what you read now that he inspires you to find the money, your Chief, is the Wells Bank report, which precisely condemned your entire pilot project by saying it's void and that it's a mess. I say it in simple words. But I can say it scientifically. Instead, we have given EUR 400 million from 2015 to the whole of 2017 for the humanitarian crisis, and today, of course, EUR 700 million for the humanitarian crisis and for the aid of the poor. Now suddenly you remembered the poor. Is this a good clientele? I don't think they have ears to you for leaving them so many years in their luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Kefaliannis, we won't open a dialogue. I can't give you the floor right now. I'm sorry. If I give you the floor, we'll open a dialogue. Then the Minister will want to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u210	I will literally stay in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u211	There's no personal matter. I can't give you the floor right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u212	First of all, the Minister has confused my last name. But beyond that, you will give me the floor for a minute, Mr President, because I think that political dialogue is useful here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u213	Come on, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u214	I want to make two very brief remarks, Minister. First of all, we didn't fall, you shot us. We're starting with the basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u215	What are you talking about? Are we going to rewrite the story?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u216	I say this because I hear many colleagues who say that it is wrong to have an early election and what you are saying. We must remember in this room what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u217	Didn't you elections for the president three months ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u218	You won't let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u219	Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Let us finish up to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u220	There's a lot of irritation in this Chamber today. Secondly, the arrangement that I described previously was legislated and implemented on the New Democracy and PASOK, previous co-existence, pilots at a first stage and for 2015 and 2016 there were specific forecasts that would apply with money much more than what you implemented in the destructive half of 2015, but then as the whole process also forgets social dividends of EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u221	That's why you put in 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u222	So, making us lessons of economic policy when you are responsible for the destructive half of 2015, I think it's going a lot. A semester that cost us at least 100 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u223	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, this bill refers to two very serious institutions of law, two concepts that mark or can mark the degree of proximity of social reality and the state entity as a compromising of the timeliness of values that dominate their historical development. Starting with the assumption, it should be said that the elements that characterize it are complementarity, in relation to parental care and diligence, and temporaryity. And the dominant goal is to reintegrate the minor into his natural family when possible, away from their suffocating institutions. It is worth mentioning, of course, that the Civil Code regulates assumption, if not exhaustively, at least treats it with due seriousness. However, the need for judicial development requires the adaptation and improvement of the legal arsenal and assumption if we want to precede our time and not follow asthmatics. An adversarial awe of the bill again, the usual suspects, with a commander of New Democracy, argumenting that "the society is not ready to accept its arrangements and that SYRIZA is attempting to disorientate society". Here, on the one hand, the ideological distance, which separates us, on the other, hinting and tacticalism in his greatness, its classic indifference to the demands of society, a society that is struggling and entangled in the drowning atmosphere of the institutions, a society that often breathes with reeds, as the poet said. In view of these various social, political and cultural necessities, the current arrangements of this draft law are a one-way road, since the failure to resolve endemic problems, their perpetuation and the continuing distortion of the legal framework undermined both the institution of assumption and adoption, resulting in the degressive course of adoptions and the reasonable paramilitaries of assumption to a degree of crime many times, so: Assumption as an institution of social protection for minors, as an alternative form of care, the need for the rapid removal from the institutional structures, the necessary separation of the minor and in the interest of the child, the dangerous poor performance of the tasks of controlling and supervising those legal persons who are active in the care and care of minors, the anaemic coordination of the competent Ministry and, in fact, the non-existent control of the entire assumption process has contributed to the tolerance of those legal persons, whether in the encouragement or support of interoperable and lawless regimes. At the same time, the dramatic delays in the management of candidates' applications by the regions' social welfare centres, the lack of recording and tracing of minors hosted by different private-law legal persons, the alleged reintegration efforts into the family of the minor and the overall complexity of the existing system were the data that imposed the revision and improvement of the legal framework and assumption and adoption. Thus, this draft law shields the whole process scientific and institutionalally and approaches the interests of the minor, with a dominant objective of reducing waiting times, after the procedures for taking up and adopting them from six years to eight to twelve months, by addressing the incomplete staffing of social services, which allowed the two necessary social research periods, the first of which was to check the suitability of candidates or fostering parents and the specific suitability of these candidates to that minor, i.e. the necessary matching, i. the ‘block’ of the characters of the candidates and existing minors. The successful approach of this objective will be based on the new Body of Certified Social Officers of the Association of Social Workers, the CSCE, which will assist existing support structures, when necessary. The second social research relates to the process of modernising the way in which the assumption and adoption procedures operate and ensures the transparency of the management, correctness and soundness of the projects, which make them socially and legally reliable, having been based on the full digitisation of those procedures in three electronic registers held in the HR and managed by the EKRF. The steps proposed for the attainment of the objectives of this draft law are the following genuinely innovative arrangements, which correspond fully to the needs of our time, namely: In the direction of protecting the child, the establishment of the National Admission and Adoption Council, the ESY. The Establishment of a National Register of Minors, an important innovation, since there is now an exact map of minors living in child protection units. The creation of a National Register of Candidate Parents, also important innovation, because it causes the recipients to be fostering parents and facilitates their judgment of the existence of the qualifications required. Finally, the institution of the occupational assumption, the assumption of the insurance cover for minors, the financial support of parent advisors and the short-term assumption is established. In conclusion, with Article 8 of the bill, which has two sides, or if you want to be treated with two different recruits, the first with the well-known isotope opposition and sterile advisability, is now known political perversion that any legislative effort by the current government is necessarily frustrating its intrinsic weaknesses, which are allegedly due to its obsessive left identity, i.e. populism in its absolute magnanimity. The second is the misinterpretation of the provision and its confusion in the sense of adoption, with regard to the delicate legal features which characterize them, but which are very different at the level of the policy applied. I am sure that, following the targeted but substantial legislative improvements made by the Minister, the latter must have come to doubts about the enormous legal and social differences between the two concepts. It is right, therefore, that Article 8 gives family couples the right to become fostering parents, since the provisions in force, together with the provisions of this draft law, delete a guarantee framework which, if properly applied, no risk of diversion, in any direction exists, since the institution of assumption does not change the relationships between family and parental responsibility or comitology and does not involve the removal of custody by parents who exercise it at the same time as the management of the property and representation of children in accordance with Article 1501, 1510 and 1603 of the Civil Code. One might claim what is legally accepted, namely that fostering parents become custody actions on behalf of natural parents. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this bill solves major problems in society, contributes decisively to the normalisation of extreme living conditions for minors and guarantees peaceful, social coexistence and I appreciate the self-responsibility of all of us in voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u225	Mr Kaisha has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today, which says that it is taking steps to accept and adopt. I will focus on two - three issues that it really solves. Is it speeding up the assumption and adoption process? The current situation is tragic. Most reported need for five, six, seven years to complete a adoption process. This, if we look at it in practice with numbers that came out in 2016, means the following: in 2016 the children, who were in institutions, are counted between two thousand and three thousand. We don't know exactly how much it is. That's another given one. In 2018 we do not know how many children we have in the foundations. Of these children were adopted in 2016 two hundred and twenty-one. We understand it's under 10% of the children inside the institutions. In other words, over 90% of children remain in institutions. Moving on to the evidence, we see that twenty-two children of these two hundred twenty-one were adopted at ages 11 to eighteen. In other words, these children were eighteen years in institutions. There's even worse. Thirty-two of these two hundred twenty-one were adopted at the age of nineteen. Do we understand what crime is going on in this way? The previous governments have continued and are now swinging our fingers because for eighteen months we have not brought the bill and we have not taken the measures. There are political responsibilities in this respect. None of the previous governments did their self-criticism. Souls were founded, lives destroyed in these foundations and coming today and shouting who? The ones who were and are responsible for this debacle. It's too many people, who in one way or another tried to adopt. I think those who have lived have realised that this cannot continue. Couples who wanted to adopt them or give up or find other ways. Of course, there was trade and everything else one can imagine. This situation is coming to solve with the measures taken by this bill. He's coming to solve this appalling delay, which they're paying lives for whole children and children. He says for eight to twelve months. Is that a goal that can be achieved? I think it is, as the measures are being taken. What measures? They've been reported by a lot of people, but I'll report them too. The juvenile record. We don't know how many people are to be adopted. This on its own is an obstacle. The register of interested couples to be adopted. As soon as we have this and once social research has taken place, I think it is very short in this time. Finally, I would like to say that the professional contractor, the couple that will be a professional contractor, is being created. It is an institution which will help to ensure that children do not reach the age of - especially newborns and disabled children - in institutions. This institution, with the measures taken and the details provided for, such as education and all of this, I think it is the best thing that could be put in place at the moment. As one of my previous work as a doctor, I have lived - and many have lived - with cases of such abandoned children in maternity and hospitals, where attempts were made to find an institution, but they were not easily taken. I think that each of us must look seriously at these issues and I believe that there will be no Member of Parliament who will not vote on these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much to my colleague and to the economy in time. Mrs. Karasardou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law today, which I believe is only satisfying that it can bring us. I say this because it touches a huge social issue, the issue of adoption and acceptance. The distortions and problems that exist are well known and over time. But this draft law comes in and tries to end the deadlocks created by the current situation. These are deadlocks and dramas, which live and face many of our fellow citizens, who either want to adopt a child or are children who have been in institutions for years. Most people seem to understand why it is so important for a child to live outside the institution, to live in a family, to grow with affection and care, to enable him to develop their own personal love ties. We are also aware of the negative consequences of institutionalisation and how these consequences can be entirely negatively affected by the mental and mental and emotional situation of a small child. On the other hand, there are adults who are usually afflicted by their efforts to have a child of their own and now want to adopt. There for them begins a second "Golgotha" that lasts for too many years. Many of them are, unfortunately, also being exploited by a system built up over the years. I am referring to a trading system, namely the marketing of infants and young children. On all these critical issues it comes to responding to this draft law, which two are its main areas, the first of which reduces waiting time and lays rules for greater transparency in procedures. This is what many colleagues have said, with the three registers, the juvenile register, the register of candidates for foster and foster parents and the register of approved assumptions and adoptions that we are establishing. Thus, the state will be able to know the exact number of children present in the institutions and the exact number of candidate parents. Furthermore, with the contribution of the Association of Social Workers of Greece, a reliable and institutionalised scientific body operating throughout the country - in all thirteen regions - the procedures are speeding up all six years that arrive to be today, it will last for about twelve months. But it ends in another tragedy. People who are adopted are forced to search in all the country's prefectures to find their natural parents. They'll be able to find their file any more, so they'll find their roots. The second extremely important and innovative one is that it solves years of problems of the institution of admission, while it is being donated. In other words, for the first time in our country, the institution of professional assumption for cases, which are difficult to find foster parents, when children are disabled or children with mental problems, or, in any case, children who are physically, mentally and mentally ill, are introduced. Colleagues, we all know from our social standpoint, from our family environment the extent and size of this problem. But even today, despite the fact that we know how great a social issue this is, which we have the opportunity to discuss on the substance, giving real solutions and way out to thousands of our fellow citizens, some continue to focus on the debate in Article 8, which concerns the right to take on all the couples who have made a cohabitation agreement, whether they are heterogeneous or gay. You all understand that it would not be possible for many reasons - constitutional, human rights reasons, reasons for parity - to make any distinction. Besides, if there was a way to do it, it is surely in the Greek courts or in the European courts. What is sovereign and essential and we must be interested in is the suitability of the candidate for his or her parental role. Therefore, this draft law ensures the procedures and checking of the suitability of the applicant parent and serves its main objective, limiting the waiting time, decoupling and protecting the rights of the child. That's the big one. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, leaving aside micro-party logic, anachronistic perceptions or prejudices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy. The State Secretary, Mr Iliopoulos, has then asked for the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that today's bill concerns children, and indeed children who did not have the chance to grow up in normal families with their true parents, should unite us and cause us to leave us out of the agenda political purposes and create everyone - above all in the government, who has the initiative of moves - the need for self-restrictions that would open up the doors of a wide, political and social consensus. Instead, the Government is using another major social issue as a communication trick, on the one hand, to promote its supposed progression, accusing those who disagree with it as anachronists and darknessists, on the other hand, of putting another gallon into neutrality, working on individual rights. As far as I am concerned at least, but I also believe that for the great majority of the Greek people, it has become perfectly predictable, but also outrageous, this continuing game of the government with values and individual rights, and even at the same time that this government has taken the most extreme measures in the economy and has proved to be the best servant of creditors, increasing poverty and dismantling the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, to the contrary - and I do not say it as a political opponent, but as a citizen - we have a government, which unfortunately does not care about children. This is not evidenced by this draft law, but by the fact that for three years the government has done nothing at all to support families, support for children who are growing up. On the contrary, he used families as the largest tax mortgages and I recall that a recent OECD report reveals that Greek workers, who support a family with two children, are the most heavy taxpayers among all the member states of the organization. And this is the most tranquil proof that this government has targeted the middle Greek family and that in the name of its ideas it has led to the destruction of the middle and lower strata of society, while representing the progressive and socially sensitive. But isn't it exactly the same thing with immigrants? In the name of her so-called humanism and progression she lets them kill each other in Patras and in the name of her ideas she holds hundreds of immigrants and thousands of citizens together in an important port in the country. This ideoleptic context runs the policy of an incompetent government of populists, who do not care about simplifying the system of adoptions. Today the government says it has the popular mandate to implement its policy. What kind of popular command, though? I remember that he promised a minimum wage of EUR 751, a pension reinstatement and a abolition of the ENPIA. That's why it was voted on. With them he fooled and humiliated the Greek people's vote three years ago. Has he promised in an election that he will bring a cohabitation agreement and allow homosexual couples to take up and vote for it by the Greek people? And remind me of one more thing. When he came to Parliament to vote for the symbiosis pact, I expressed my disagreement at the time saying that he also opens a door to the assumption of children from homosexual couples. The compromise wing, however, categorically rejected such a possibility and always with the same face of false progression mentioned fantasy scenarios, unreserved speculation of conservative circles. Today it turns out who made scripts, who operated with despicability and inferiority, first opening the question of the cohabitation pact and then the issue of taking off homosexual couples. And not only that, but with fanaticism and extreme rhetoric the government and its "exploitations" blame her on those who disagree with a legislative provision that will surely create more problems than it attempts, in the worst way, to solve. It does not understand, of course, that when it affects the family and hurts values in talking about darkness, it actually messes with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to separate the substance of the bill under discussion from the government's political pursuits. It is true that ways must be found to simplify and speed up adoption. Of course, we must offer every child the opportunity to grow into a family. It is true that we cannot close our eyes any more to unbearable bureaucracy or to the abundance of illegal adoption circuits. On the other hand, however, we should not ignore a few things. Let us imagine - and we know, above all, the difficulties which exist and the assistance to be given to families - the case of a homosexual couple. Imagine the schoolchildren being informed that their classmate has two fathers, two mothers, instead of one. Imagine what's going to happen. In addition, I wonder: are there the services and qualified staff who will accept to adequately address the emerging problems of this new institution? Has this institution been properly prepared? As you know well, nothing has happened. When you want to create a new institution, you have to support it. It is obvious that great attention is needed. I'll agree with all those who say it doesn't matter what sex is, but the love one can offer to a child. But let us all agree that in our society there are limits which cannot be exceeded, especially when these limits are attempted to overcome for other reasons by a government that has costly dissolving the place and trying to break it down socially, morally and nationally. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that the family has prevented the break of our social fabric. We must recognise that in order to be fair to history. Such an admission, of course, does not mean under any circumstances that we do not recognise the obligations our democracy has to respect all fundamental human rights. But we must understand that our society cannot stand, cannot and must not accept this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Ilioopoulos. If I'm not mistaken, Minister, it's your first speech. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u232	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u233	Good luck! I'll give you five minutes, because that's the way it is planned, with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to start with this, but I think that if anyone with three words could characterise the attitude of the Opposition from this morning until now in the debate, I think it would be an annoying, irritation and embarrassment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u235	Are we voting for the bill and you're telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u236	There's all three of the locations here. It seems all three of her attitude as a whole, how she's involved. In my opinion, it does not take part in today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u237	Have ten Members spoken and you tell us that no one has spoken?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u238	Perhaps the most characteristic feature was the parliamentary spokesman, who spoke a moment ago, who had an 80% general political position and 20% for this bill, precisely because he had to hide this embarrassment. And where is this embarrassment based, beyond everything else? That the first success of this bill is the matter of time. That an assumption and adoption which so far wanted six, five, seven, eight years to go ahead with this bill now solves this problem. And here comes a key question: How did that happen? How did this government, in other words, create a framework that puts an end to a heavy, irrational, bureaucratic process? Did it happen because it's just a matter of technocratic competence? No, it's not a matter of technocratic competence. It is a political issue, it is a matter of political starting-up, because the political starting-up of this bill is social needs. The issue of times, the issues of the process have always been and remain deeply political, because until now a new couple, a man who wanted to enter the process of assumption and adoption, was faced with a labyrinth, and this labyrinth was not a question of mistake, it was not a matter of some technological failure. It was a conscious part of an old system of power, a system of power that had different priorities, a system of power that lived and maintained this labyrinth, a system of power that designed the foundations and not the needs of the children. And here I think there is the basic dividing line that explains why this government can make this intersection against the old political system, the basic dividing line that no child should stay in an institution. So, we're planning a system, planning a process to start with the needs of the child, or planning a process and a system that needs how do we maintain the old situation with the institutions? Are there any criteria? Yes, and obviously there are, and the Minister has explained them very thoroughly. Let's see it clearly, though. Sexual orientation cannot and should not be one of these criteria. It may not and should not be for scientific reasons which have been substantiated. I fully understand that for several of Parliament's wings the level of public dialogue is at the level of the dialogue between the Inquisition and Galilee. Fortunately for us, societies are moving forward and will continue to move on. But beyond that, there is one self-evident thing that I think most people in the world are very easily aware of - where some believe they genuinely express - that love and will to raise a child. This is the basic criterion and not sexual orientation. And here we come to the second part which we are constantly listening to: 'Society is not ready'. I would remind you that many times those who defend the argument that society is not ready, in fact, trying to transfer one of their own responsibilities, are trying to transfer one of their own unprepared ones. And let us remember that this society was not ready for women to vote, this society may not have been ready for women to have the right to define their bodies and have the right to abortion, this society may not have been ready for too many things. But let's say it very simple. A society that feels security with children in institutions, but does not feel security if a child finds itself in a house where sexual orientation may not be defined by the dominant standards and by what some - who think they genuinely express society - think it is dominating and normal, this society must change. If even a child could get away with this bill, it would still be worth it and the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much to the Minister who was indeed time-conscious. "He put the glasses" on many of the oldest. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. It really needs a great deal of hypocrisy, but also a great deal of courage for this government to be indicted that it has not been able to build all the things that those in power over the past three years have not built. And not forget, because the Greek people will not forget what policies have led the country to the comitology and the enforcement of the memoranda. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the preparation of the draft 'Measures for the promotion of the Institutions of Admission and Adoption' of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity in the committees, a very great and interesting debate has been held. There has been most of the effort through dialogue to highlight all those best practices that facilitate, improve and strengthen the new conditions, in which they will seek a new opportunity for those children who have been deprived of the family environment. Criticism has been made, remarks have been made, proposals have been heard and overruns have been made. The Ministry provided clarifications and accepted some of the proposals made by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Fotios, with a view to improving the situation and the result is deemed to be positive. Do you need any more improvement? Obviously! In addition, the Minister mentioned it: "The enemy of good is always the best". The criticism of some aspects and focused mainly on the right to take advantage of those who have concluded a coexistence agreement, including individuals of different sexual orientation, has helped to pass on to the second degree other positive aspects of the bill, which is wrong. The focus of criticism on just a few points - either well-meaning or deliberately - is concerned. But, regardless of intentions, it gives the opportunity to dialogue to explore aspects of reflection, to try to ask questions and to seek answers. They are questions about the human relations and the needs arising from them, psychology, diversity, social order, gender and influences that can be exerted on behaviour, questions that concern society, are existing, seek answers and not only concern our country, but are part of a wider world-wide reflection. In fact, it has been pointed out with emphasis that society is not mature to accept a specific proposal. What does a mature society mean? Who and on what criteria decide whether it is mature or not? When did society expect historical times to grow? For example, the abolition of racial discrimination, the safeguarding of equal rights between sexes, even the Greek revolution, was not for some mature society to accept them. The interaction between social events and societies is twofold. Any changes made by means of claims and reversals. By the way, I would remind you that today in the papers it is stated that Saudi Arabia has allowed women to drive. However, they are questions which are not exhausted in a debate or in the vote on a law, but there are still torture until life itself does. Nevertheless, it is important to focus on a dialogue in order to highlight good practices and procedures for better results. And this bill has this orientation with important innovations. It establishes the registration of children, those in need of protection, childbirth and assumption through the juvenile register, as well as approved viewers and parent advisors through the adult register. The Register of Approved Adoption and Adoption, through which it is known how many acts have been completed, shall be established. In this way, the establishment, the National Assignment and Adoption Council, can have an integrated view of how many children, for example, exist for adoption, assumption, how many interested and approved fosters and foster parents and how many operations have been completed. It is particularly important that the time for childbirth should be reduced from six to eight years which are now required. Time will be considerably reduced. The success of this objective will give great impetus and contribute to the reversal of the downward trend towards childbirth. The issue of age concerns what is most appropriate. Among the child psychologists there is constant conversation about age, in which the psychological, emotional formation of a child has been completed. Some say this is already happening between the ages of two and the age of three, while others say that this process never ends. In conclusion, an appropriate age can be considered to be the under-season, more appropriate for two to three years. Over six years of age have less chance of being adopted, especially if the process continues to be long enough to date. Approximately, adoption under the age of six represents about 80%, while over six years accounted for 20%. If this ratio does not change, the future of these children is not predicted to be optimistic. The issue of health is also extremely important. Some seek children with certain standards, to be, for example, visible, of the same color or race, healthy and others. Children with disabilities are not preferred because they require more care while sometimes being given for adoption by parents who cannot take care of them. These cases come to cover the professional assumption. The contribution and role of the Association of Social Workers of Greece in education, evaluation, selection of suitability for viewers and contractors and the follow-up of the whole process and during the course of the process is important and crucial. The capacity and readiness of the state services, support, information and education, support for staff and infrastructure, cooperation with scientific bodies and local communities are key prerequisites for the success of the purpose. We must also not overlook the fact that, in most cases, childbirth is a decision and a voluntary act, and as such, we do not have the right to deprive it of anyone, since it legally fulfils the conditions. Finally, I will not personally urge any Member to vote for the bill. It is up to the will of each of us. But I would like to point out and think that refusal may deprive some children of a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Thraniotis. Mrs Evangelia Karakosta has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u242	May I, too, welcome my colleagues and colleagues. We are talking today about a bill designed to move away from the institutional protection of children - which, for various reasons, each is removed from its natural family - to the widest possible integration of such children into families or in dwellings which may not be families, because we have the only parent families and we must stress this. Anyway, the bill's aim is to pass these children to exclusive love. And that's the serious difference. It was heard by a New Democracy colleague that most articles in this bill do not refer to adoption, but to assumption. As far as I'm concerned, it's no accident. They have had the same time problems, which have all been mentioned here by too many colleagues. The aim, of course, is to solve the bureaucratic problems which the bill actually solves. Also, the recording of candidate parents for adoption or for contractors and their respective children for assumption or adoption through the central supervisory body set up, the National Assurance and Adoption Council, and all that has been heard and described in the bill is extremely, also solves many bureaucratic issues, which has been accepted by all political parties. What really is very important - has been explained very well by my colleague Mr Lappa - and that is what we are talking about assumptions is that adoption is isolated from the parent's natural. The child has his own parents. There is, of course, a great deal of progress in society too. You will remember that older adopted children never learned they were adopted. Society avoided it and secretly whispered "this is adopted". He didn't say so. Now parents who adopt children bear witness to it from a very young age. These are changes in attitudes that are well or badly done. But the adoption law was preceded and then the mentality changed. The same goes for assumption, and that is what the people who are listening to us have to understand. Today we are creating a new treaty, and we are expanding it in too many cases, namely, the single-parent family and the cohabitation agreement, so that we can have more of a child's disabling potential. It is clear and has been said by too many that it is preferable for a child to live exclusive love in his life rather than in an institution. Besides, all the institutions' experts - whatever you visit in Greece - will tell you the same - that it is preferable for a child to leave the institution and go to a family and often to a family, if he conforms - because, as you can see, in order to leave it, there were flaws - his family, to return to it. They even prefer these conditions, despite the foundation. You know, democracy is guaranteed when the state system safeguards minority rights rather than majority rights. That means real democracy. So here we have children, who are of course a minority in our society, but we need to shape those conditions so that they have the most possible rights. This is also part of what has been debated so much. I would like to say to colleagues who disagree with Article 8 that we sincerely have examples of identifiable people who have taken children, who have grown up, who have been homosexual, who have respected them unrestrictedly - it is not appropriate to mention names, but everyone knows them - and have made an excellent course. It's a shame to close our eyes like the little kids who want to hide and put their hand in their eyes and they don't see what's going on around them. I mean that we really need to see this on the basis of each other's personal sensitivity, and I have no problem with any members of any party, whether opposition or our party, having a different level of consciousness and voting differently. Here they must understand that minority movements have shaped society's progress. No revolution took place by the majority. It started with minorities and majorities followed. So the left-wing government's task today is to shape such a framework. Something has also been said by Mrs Papayannakis, who has come to my attention and I consider it to be a serious contradiction and I want to say it. While, for example, it has involved capitalism and what the comrades usually say - I will tell them - of the JRC, about the financial criteria of the family we are putting into assumption, but also about adoption and, on the other hand, it said about the professional assumption. It cannot, while wanting to support the family it adopts, accepts the professional assumption and mentions examples with three and four children, etc. We have said before - and we have to understand that - that. Professional assumption enables people who do not have economics, but want to really help special children, whether disabled or mentally ill, or children who have left prison institutions, with continuous monitoring and with special education, to do so. This bill has articles that train future parents either for adoption or contractors, but at the same time it also monitors and trains these children and families during the operation of this law. So it is very serious - and many colleagues have said so - from the application of the law and the law provides for it. It broadens the experts - because the experts we have do not get us - from other places, not just from the Ministry and the specific positions, so that we can have the fullness of the experts who will take care of this process. All of us must wish immediately and quickly that we do not have such an institution in Greece. I wish! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mrs. Kosobol has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. The bill, which is being discussed today, comes to add another vote to individual and social rights with emphasis on the rights of the child. I would like to praise the legislative initiative of Minister Fotio, who, with perseverance and patience, identified the problem, brought this draft law that we are debating today, which is coming to cure pathogenesis for decades. It comes to light one - with a diligent characterisation - a blurred landscape, a landscape suitable for incubating and giving birth to behaviors that abuse children’s souls, which unhealthyly hurt man. It is a common place - each mind perceives it - that the placement of a minor to a foster or foster family is the best choice of the state in cases where the minor or no family or for some reason the state considers that it is in his interest to remove from his physical family. The two institutions, assumption and adoption, have been legislated in our country for years. But distortions in the process have made us difficult for children's souls, but also for the despair of people who wanted and had the prerequisites to adopt a child, but have not been able to do so. And while the latter were forced after years of hardship to give up their dream of lovingly raising a child or resorting to other countries in order to achieve it, lonely children grew up and grown up without living the family condolences. This is one of the reasons for the decline in the number of adoptions in recent years. Of course, the elements which lead to this conclusion must be read with caution, since there is no system for recording all the adoptions, but neither is there any system of recording all the adoptions, nor is there any system for children who are in institutions and especially in legal persons under private law, with what this entails. The state must not close its eyes in the face of this huge social problem. The draft law under discussion attempts to find a solution to the National Legislative Register, which does not provide assurances of accuracy, to poor supervision - and this is very serious - of legal persons under private law and NGOs, where children are placed after prosecutors' orders or judicial decisions, not to record and map children hosted to them, and therefore to incapable of placing them in fostering parents and, above all, to delay the management of applications by prospective fosterers or parents. The creation of an instrument for child protection solves the problem that I described above. It has been said: Is the National Admission and Adoption Council, which will provide advisory support to child protection bodies and will in particular oversee the implementation of the institutions of acceptance and adoption and of which registries? The juvenile register, where all minors will be recorded, in the prospective parent register, where all potential foster parents will be recorded, when? When social audits and monitoring of social programmes have been completed and their registration has been approved. It will also be supervised by the National Register of Candidate Parents, where all potential fostering parents will be recorded after their registration has been checked and approved. In addition, provision is made for the consolidation and redrafting of an integrated universal National Adoption Register and a Universal Register of Approved Minors' Assignments. The registers of children to be adopted on the one hand, and the registers of candidate fostering parents and fostering parents on the other, on the other hand, create a transparency in the whole process. Furthermore, the existence of the register of candidate parents - fostering parents - which, for its training, will have preceded the appropriateness check, with the services that carry out the checks and with their expansion by the certified social workers - and this is an innovation that I must welcome, because it will facilitate controls with these people, which will give up the entire system of social workers - speed up the process and reduce the waiting times, reduces dramas. The whole process of drawing up the registers, in particular the criteria for the suitability of candidate fostering parents, is carried out solely in the interests of the child. It is important that strengthening the institution of assumption is also achieved through the financial support of foster parents. Very important, too, I would say that there are instruments for monitoring the two institutions - as well as for assumption and adoption - after their adoption, which was almost non-existent with the existing legislative framework. And while all this clears up the blurred landscape, children get out of the foundations and literally save human souls, there are some who are blinding and hypocrisy-threatening about the possibility of those who have entered into a cohabitation agreement, so also of homosexuals, becoming fostering parents. Should we check the sexual orientation of the individual, who can also make available to accommodate and treat minor children from one day to the next? Do we forget dramas that have seen the light of publicity, even with recent tragic examples that caused heterosexual parents? What exactly is the problem if homogeneous couples will have been judged by the mechanism referred to above to host from one day until it takes children who have their name, their natural parents, who will return, when the reasons temporarily removed from them are removed from them, or why are they refugeees and seekers, or why were they temporarily removed from custody? What is the problem of offering love, if - I repeat - is, like all the candidates, considered appropriate? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Will they affect the child who has been taken in the direction of homosexuality? But these foster parents themselves are parents' children. I invite you to see the draft law as a whole, to judge whether it serves the purpose for which it is being established, the interests of the child and if it opens arms, without prejudice, with reasonable and sensitivity, and then I am sure that we will all be led to its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kosobol. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the Lassithi Municipal School and from the 1st Municipal School of Asgouros Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Germenis has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. With this piece of legislation, SYRIZA - ANLL is attempting a new approach to the institution of the family through regulation of the institution of assumption and adoption. It is an approach that we disagree with, since the way is open for the adoption of minors by homosexual couples. That alone is enough to disagree with this bill. To prevent Annells from coming out and saying that they are voting against, I would like to tell them that they could not remember whenever they want and it suits them that they are governmental and, on the other hand, that they are not governmental and they are voting against what is of interest to them. They could say, when the bill was still on the Legislative Committee, that since it is government they do not vote and do not hide behind parties, such as PASOK or the River. Going out here and saying that today we give up and throw the government and does not pass such a bill that is a bomb on the foundations of the Greek family. It is, of course, clear - we are not discussing this - that minors need legal protection and that their integrity must be guaranteed. However, we must say that in recent years there has been an influx of illegal immigrants, an influx of immigrants throughout Europe. There are non-registered children and we all know where children who are not registered have fallen, what networks, what trafficking and what abnormal minds have been found at times. They come out and we hear their hails from people who supposedly play it progressive. We must also say that there are not only illegal immigrants or immigrants who have a problem and who are orphans. There are Greeks who do not experience the family bloom. There is evidence that shows in the years of the memorandum how many Greek families have had to leave their infants because they cannot normally grow them in a family, as our grandparents grew up. These children had to fall on them and help them, while the Greek state and the Greek nation had a huge demographic problem in terms of births. These are problems that we as Golden Dawn have had since the first time we entered this Chamber and have solutions. We have proposals in our programme with specific positions that say there should be allowances to Greek families to respond to the difficult economic situation. We say that it is necessary to protect motherhood. Motherhood must be subsidized and there must be protection of single mother, as well as brave reinforcement of three-tier and multiple families. We remember every time that the government brings new economic measures - every time we are in this Chamber - to vote against third-party and multi-text measures, to tax Greeks from their first child, unlike new Member States - members of the European Union such as Poland or Hungary, which help motherhood and new families. Such countries must be examples for the Greek state, for the Greek nation for today's progressive, supposedly Greek government and not for anyone who has the courage today, I will say, and for heroism to be multitude. On the altar, allegedly, of equal treatment last year, you brought those provisions that opened the door to homosexuals to create a family core, concluding the well-known cohabitation pact. The next step you do today, allowing these couples to become foster parents. We said before that your purpose is one and only, the dissolution of the traditional family. At this point let me make a reference to an official scientific analysis of the American College Paediatric Society. There are over three hundred scientists, psychologists and psychiatrists who sign it. I put it in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, George Germenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This study concerns the phenomenon of gender discomfort observed in a proportion of minors. However, the most important chapter relates to the problems faced by adults, who are inconsistent with their biological sex, since they are, for example, faced with serious psychological problems, depression and suicidal tendencies. Child discomfort refers to the psychological state in which the minor experiences an intolerance between experiential gender and biological gender. In other words, a child who will be born arsenic, for a number of psychological reasons that have to do with the endocrine and psychological experiential environment, can deal with this problem of gender discomfort. Furthermore, as evidenced by the studies that I have just presented in the Minutes, it is not an innate feature, but it occurs over the years, mainly because of the possibility of experiencing a latent experience of segregating biological genders. From this approach we can say that the crime currently committed by legalising the admission of minors by homosexual couples will cause a serious social problem over time. In short, what does the study say? A young child - male, female - at his school that will go daily, what does it say? This is my dad, the one from there, my dad, the two or my mom, the one from my mom or two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u247	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u248	Please, sir! We didn't interrupt you. How's the kid gonna experience it? Come to the place of a teenager, a baby, a child who experiences this every day in his shoe. What will social racism be caused by you to experience such a child when we see daily reports that such families bring young children, really, in situations of suicide, rot and decay? You so-called humanists, who care about these kinds of children, first look to bring the economy where Greek families don't give up. But I'll take it a step further. You who love globalisation, not to make wars and not to bomb states, serious states, such as Syria and Lebanon. Such teratogenicities create and such teratogenicity is also such a bill as today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u249	Mr Seltas from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which an organised state tackles the issue of the adoption and admission of minors is the mirror of its social culture. For decades in our country there has been an uncontrolled institutional framework regulating adoptions, a framework which only succeeded in creating suffering and unjustified delays in the prospective fostering parents, the supervisors, but especially children themselves. Our country is the only country in Europe that did not have a system of monitoring the actions of child protection. We did not know as a society how many of my children were hosted in structures that acted as private legal entities. With the bill that we are debating today in plenary, it finally changes the institutional framework governing acceptance and adoption. Emphasis is placed on the best interests of the child. For the first time, the National Admission and Adoption Council is established, which will be crucial for the cooperation of all involved actors. For the first time, the National Register of Minors will be established, in which all children will be recorded in Child Protection and Care Units. All the necessary social research is achieved in order to reduce the waiting time for the completion of the adoptions. We open the doors wide open to the institution of the contractor. Assumption is not only a simple process, it is the right of children to take care of the family. These are important interventions aimed at the family rehabilitation of children who need special care. The aim of our society must be one: no child in institutions. There are thousands of couples who want a child through adoption or assumption and their state deprived this possibility because of huge delays. With this bill, these bad texts are changing. But we must realise that our society is also changing the structure of the modern family, that the priorities are changing. A citizen should not be deprived of the right to become a parent and to offer. We have as a society to motivate people who want to become foster parents. It's the least we can do for them. The organized state is the one that will choose which features a person should have to become a contractor. We want for children people oriented towards positive lifestyles, people who are active and concerned. We must emphasise the interests of children. All citizens must be equal to the important act of the contractor, without discrimination and prejudice. We must remain committed to ensuring human rights. That's our deposit. With this bill, we aspire to put an end to institutionalism. That is what our society and our morality require. And the best reward for us will be when all children are in a family that cares for them and loves them. Finally, I dedicate my vote to the bill to all the children who were hosted in the children's towns of Friedrich. There is also a formal end to this barbaric structure of the Greek state. I dedicate to all my compatriots who have been "hosted" to these structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Shelica, and for the time economy. Here, Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it has already been said that the public debate on today's bill has been somewhat unfair, because it focused mainly on Article 8 and on the implications of different assessments. The draft law, however, is rich in attention worthy innovations. It is a modern, visionary draft law based on a principle, which, consistently and practically, serves, the principle of modern society that the child, his needs, the prospects for the smooth integration of the new generation into the social body are apart from a fundamental right and equally a primary obligation of the state. This obligation arises directly from the Constitution, from Article 2, which states that respect for and protection of human value are a primary obligation of the state. Article 21(1) and (3) and, in particular, paragraph 6, as it currently stands after the amendment, lays down an express obligation for the State to ensure that people with disabilities enjoy measures ensuring their participation in socio-economic life, an obligation which is covered in the best way by Article 16 of this draft law, by which for the first time it is systemed and organised the possibility of dismantling young people who require special care conditions. It's the article that provides for the professional assumption. It is true, with the exception of the exceptions which really honor the journalistic function, that the way in which public opinion has so far been taken into account is indicative of many of the things we call - and not unfair - diseases of public speech. First there has been a fortunately failed attempt at party exploitation of conservative reflexes in the first place, on the subject of the assumption by homosexual couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. I do not want to add anything more here in the very right position that it would be incomprehensible, unconstitutional and contrary to citizens' equality towards the law of any kind of exception. I'm doing a little parentheses. I was impressed by the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman, who, if I am not mistaken, if I interpreted his words correctly, is somehow suggesting that he relax the criterion for gay couples. This exception does not directly propose it. He suggested it indirectly. I would like, if he were here, to give us an explanation, because really such exceptions are dangerous, although they are, of course, incomprehensible in the general legal order. I think that everyone who reacts to the regulation of Article 8 does not take into account the changes that are taking place in the social sphere because of a change in legislation. Therefore, we are judging by today's measures and standards of situations that will certainly have a different approach in the future. An example is how much has changed the concept of political marriage, which at first was considered as non-marriage. Another example is the effect of family law reform in 1982-83 on equality concepts within the family, creating situations that at the time seemed incomprehensible and the opposite is today the unthinkable. For example, seek a wife’s permission from her husband as a prerequisite for exercising a commercial profession. As some people recall, then it was compulsory to ask for a married woman's leave while today this is simply inconceivable. Somehow, with the influence of legislation that this government has introduced and will introduce, the debate on whether or not a couple of gay couples can take up minors, after some time it will seem and will be overdue. On the occasion of discussing this draft law, it will also be appropriate to open the debate at another level. What is the best way of organising services for fostering parents and individuals, to monitor better the progress of their obligations towards minors, service interventions, advice, etc. It is quite clear and the Ministry and the Minister have said so, that today's infrastructure is not enough. Immediate staffing of the relevant structures is needed with scientific and qualified staff, and this is why the government is also committed to abolishing the mandatory restrictions on the renewal of staff in the public sector, which we know has been set in time. The possibilities opened by this draft law for the provision of integrated services before and after the assumption and throughout the contractor and minor relationship are many. They lead to a completely new framework for social policy in the areas of minor life, more effective and more practically beneficial for the recipient of these services, which is the child and his needs. The slogan 'no child in asylum' is of course touching. But it will be possible with other types of structures, with support to staff, with the gradual formulation of rules, and let us not forget that they are also implemented with the necessary rigour in other countries. Better organization of the social workers area is certain to contribute to the upgrading of their role, as the conditions are created to become a body of state advisor on issues such as what we are discussing today. It will increase the degree of responsibility and strengthen the role and responsibility of their professional sector. The landscape will also complement the changes in the issues of adoption or childbirth if the proposal to change terminology thrives upon completion of the work of the Special Committee of the Ministry of Justice, which has competence and, of course, the establishment and staffing of the family court within the intentions of this Government. Finally, I want to make a comment on various positions that have been taken here and in the public sphere. It is a few pieces of legislation that opens the way to important areas of life, and at first they are not understood as such. Their print extends beyond individual settings. From the level of response to participation and from their better shape, we are all judged on implementation. We have said that in Greece, despite the grim climate of budgetary coercion, there is a struggle between the old and the new, between maintenance and evolution. This is not a new finding. Fixed and studied are steps taken by the government for a fairer and more human society. There is, of course, a great deal left. After all, it is the same government that accepts that it takes time and courageous effort to clash with established views, with interests. We are all judged and judged at the end of the term and by the degree of response to the current needs and the consistency of words and works and by how often we ignored the political costs and promoted the good of society in the face of temporary party interests and votes in small budgets. This last point, namely that it takes some time for innovative policies to thrive, I dedicate it to those who are raped for elections, especially those who cannot understand that, apart from the successful outcome of the process of compulsion of the country by the memoranda, which will take place on time, the people will also credit us with the time we have begun the reform work. So let them not be surprised that the next four years will also belong to SYRIZA and all those forces who want to co-operate together for a real regeneration of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr Balomannakis. Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor from Golden Dawn for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. I was terrified as the previous speaker closed up, because if SYRIZA remains for another four years, we will not speak of Greece, but of another state.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u255	It's easy to scare!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u256	SYRIZA is trying to transform the state, not the reforms with which he allegedly colludes with capital and other things that SYRIZA says - with no capital he does not conflict - but with all these legislations that constantly bring to the Greek Parliament and which aim to break up the Greek society. See what he's done in these four years. Imagine another four years! You have invented the disciplinary action here in the Greek Parliament. Last week I spoke to a committee on this matter and said Mrs Christodoulopoulos: 'I do not agree with your views. I'll send you to the disciplinary department." He interrupted me when I was talking. Today I was speaking to another committee on the asylum of refugees and the Minister came out - I think Muzalas - and said that I do not accept your views and I do not want to hear them. The Minister who was there on the committee said so. We should ask every SYRIZA official for permission before we get up here in Step for what we're going to say. This is the democracy of SYRIZA, to constantly legislate for minorities, for all those who constitute 0.0001% of the Greek population. Of course, these statutes, so that we do not get fooled and hide behind our fingers, but also to understand those who are watching us, have a double purpose. First, they throw the ball at the platform. At the time when the Greek people are falling, while the national issues - Turks, Albanians and Skopje - have broken up, we are talking about whether homosexual couples should adopt. Of course, when I say 'double purpose', I mean you also serve the hard party base of SYRIZA. I came home after this debate in the Commission and my wife tells me: 'I am sure they will not believe this.' However, I said to her, "the worst thing is not that they say it, the worst is that the Syrians and the others, of course, because many will vote for it from the other parties too, believe it." This is the most dramatic in Greek society today, that there are people who believe a child should grow up with two fathers or two mothers. It's scary. If we said that a few years ago, we'd scare the thought. Nowadays, it's considered normal. Of course, it's considered normal of you. 0,001% of the population. For us 99.9% of the Greek population, this is unnatural, it is unreasonable and, of course, condemnable. The fact that children need a mother-father's diploma is unnecessarily unnecessarily. We're not talking about there might be a family without that duplicate. The nature that defined that for a child to be born needs a man and a woman, obviously for you SYRIZA is a racist. So nature should have predicted being able to be a homosexual couple, a man with a man or a woman with another woman, to give birth. Unfortunately, nature has not predicted it for you. So we say open a dictionary to find out what "unnatural", "unlike nature", say it as you like. Your political Marxism constantly obliges you to clash with logic, with morality, with our traditions and nature itself. You see it as a supreme good or as you say - and I have noted it because it is a very good thing that you so-called left-wing - a social right. So the social right, as you say, is superior to every child in the world growing up with a dad and a mom, the most normal thing in the world. You do not give the false democrats, who are so cut off on human rights, the choice of a child to choose whether he wants to live in such a family. You are only giving this right to adults. So two adults, George and Kicho, have decided that they want a child. So the state, from now on, will give them this right without this child, without ever asking this child's soul to grow up in such a sick environment. When it comes to eighteen years of age, I will read to you what the children who have grown up in such families. A girl says: 'Children innately long...'. Do you understand that word? "They love"! Bring us such proof from children who have grown up normally in such families. There aren't any! What does the little girl say here? He says: “...ingeniously they long for their mother and father. It is not something that society teaches them to want." That's what you don't care about. It's none of your business what these kids say. He says: "Father's day sucks. My mom thinks it's a society's fault when it's actually just her fault. I love her, but mercy. He talks about the sexes as if they don't matter when one grows up children. If it doesn't matter, why does she want me to spend so much time with her men friends so I can have a father figure? I want to know who my father is. It's half of who I am. We're flesh and blood. They're literally in my DNA." Do you understand that, you Syrian humanists?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u257	How can we figure it out?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u258	Where would you know? Of course, you don't understand. He says, "You cannot make a child stop caring for his lost father or his lost mother in words." These are things that kids have grown up in such families. Of course, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou and the other Syrians, of course, would not want to have grown up in such a family. I'm sure of that, because they'd have a thousand problems. Of course, I don't know, they might have them now. I guess they'd probably grown up in a family like this. What anyone will do in his bed - I do so, of course, if anyone has such applause - is his right. He's an adult. After the eighteen years, everyone can do whatever they want. Playing, however, anyone stepping on such rights and playing with a child's soul, not just do not tolerate it, but I find it inhuman. This is not progress. This is a disgrace to Greek society and to nature itself. After the hurricane, you know what's coming. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, we here, if you do not know, by 98% with 99% again, are Greek Christian orthodox. So our faith expressed by the priests, the priests, the mere believers, declares disgraceful about this phenomenon, for this bill you are going to vote on and the way you want to make Greek society. So I'll read to you what the fathers of Mount Athos, the Holy Epistaxia, have sent, not all of Mount Athos, of course. We filed it all in the Minutes. You also came to your emails, to everyone, but of course you didn't bother to read it, because you don't care what the fathers say on Mount Athos. I'll read two phrases: ‘How is it possible for the bill to take care of the child’s mental and emotional health and allow the child to be raised by a couple’...’. In introductory terms, the word'marriage', because they do not regard as a couple what you mean. "...where the position of the father will be held by a wife or by a mother - a man, without that having any choice? " They say what we're talking about. ‘Do not the elementary human rights of the child be violated when since tender age there is a serious moral danger?’. We are fully aligned with this view of fathers, as we align ourselves with another hierarch, Sire Ambrosios, who you sent him to court because a man, a hierarch, told the truth, what the entire Greek people believes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Heliopoulou, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u260	You sent him to trial with the anti-racist, I don't know what law. Because you kept inventing laws so we can't talk. You're forbidden. You're so democrats! That's never happened. What you're doing, what you legislate to fade us, has never happened. So you sent Ambrosios to stand trial and there he was called by the advocates of political lawsuits: "Whether a metropolitan, a metropolitan, or a ordinary citizen, for a life, Ambrosius, you will be a golden man."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Colleague, we've reached nine minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u262	Listen to what you were yelling at a hierarch! Of course this is the highest honour for us, to identify with a man who tells the truth, who speaks the language of simple reason. Simple logic, however you are trying not to impose on Greek society, nature, simple logic, our faith in our homeland, religion, family, thousands of years now, lives and survives within the souls of the Greeks. From there you can't take it out with whatever legislation you impose on us. Our faith in a family made up of Mom, Dad and child is not going to come out of our souls as many as thousands of years as they pass. Even if you want to dismantle the Greek society, even a golden man will exist, he will be here, and he will resist. In the face of logic, we do not count on any such legislation, which will soon be found where it is worthwhile, in the trash of history!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and six teachers attending the Elementary School of Spilios Rethymno. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dousina, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. "It is possible for humanity to decide democratically that part of it must be exterminated." That's what Hannah Arent, the great philosopher, wrote in her book "State of Integration" in 1951. When Ared wrote this, what she was referring to had happened, because the Jews, the gays, the homosexuals, the Roma, the communists had been exterminated. Not about what they did or about what they believed, apart from the communists, but about who they were, about where they were born, how they were born, what race they were born or what sexual desire. I have had to say this because today in Parliament, things have been heard which we, as parliamentarians and teachers, have to respond to. We've got the students up there, too. If we do not respond to that logic and the rhetoric of hatred, intolerance, hostility to our fellow humans, I think we are not doing our duty. Many people spoke of human rights. They also used the logic of what the Strasbourg tribunal says, and that will necessarily lead us there. There is, then, a pitfall. You know, I've worked with these things for many years. "Human rights belong to people precisely because they are human". It's a cliché and like all the clichés are half true. Human rights are not given because we are human beings. Humanity alone gives us nothing. We have acquired rights and claim and retain rights because we are fighting because the various categories of people have fought. When we talk about things like race, color, sexual desire, that is, what I am as a human, we're not talking about rights. These come before rights. It's about the definition of man what it means to be human. And as we know in our history, although the logic of humanity has introduced a logic of universality, equality, etc., politically the concept of humanity has been used, and is still being used, precisely to separate people from those who are complete, from others who are few who are not at all, who are not speaking our language, who do not share our religion, which belong to the wrong order, to the wrong colour, to the wrong sexuality. They have stayed and are still out of the definition of humanity. I wanted to finish this introductory remark by saying that it is not the humanity that gives us rights, but precisely our struggles and these rights that we have won and continue to win - because we are losing them already - are the ones that make us more or less people. As regards what was heard today in the House, if they were told in any other European state, they would have led to persecution and it is reproached to hear such things in the Greek Parliament. However, I should now like to come to the subject which we are discussing and to mention the four major objections we have unfortunately heard from the Qualified Opposition, concerning the question of the assumption and childbirth of homosexual couples. Let me start with a first negative argument. Institutions and institutionalism have heard a great deal. But whoever's been looking for them knows also that while all European literature says that children have to stay in the foundations for an average of six months, they are staying here for an average of six years. And that's not all. In the various churches, private institutions, etc. - we have specific evidence - we imposed on minor children of extreme behavior, such as a ban on girls wearing trousers, a strict fasting, a ban on participation in excursions. In other words, we had the hardest biopolitics, a way to make people, consciences and behaviors of full obedience, not to be able to think for themselves. So this is the negative argument: Do you prefer that or do you prefer to take a family of any kind of family, these children and take them to a house and raise it with love? The second argument we have heard - and I have listened to it, and I am sad to hear from Mrs Papayannakis - is that there is - it says - a question of science. There are, it says, arguments from here and there. We heard something from Texas, we heard something that each other, and so on. Look at that. This argument is finished and I'll tell you why it's finished. In 2013, we had a big case in the Supreme Court, the Superme Court, the United States, the Windsor case against the United States. It was a case that discussed the issue of marriage between couples' homogeneous couples. So there was an amicus curiae. Because you don't probably know, that means 'a friend of the court'. In other words, American companies, clubs, people who are aware of a matter and who are interested in participating in a judicial decision which will have an effect and influence on many of the worlds, are entitled to submit a report. This amicus curiae, the exhibition, was filed by the following: the American Psychology Society, the American Academy of Children, the American Psychiatric Society, the American Psychoanalytical Society and the National Society of Social Workers. They're the biggest companies in the world. What does that say? I put it here in the Minutes, because that answers everything. They look at all the investigations that had been carried out by 2012, pick them up and put this report in court on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Dousina, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's he saying? The claim that legal recognition of the marriage of spouses undermines the institution of marriage and harms their children is contrary to scientific evidence. The scientific documentation supports the conclusion that homosexuality is a normal expression of human sexuality and is not chosen. They claim that homosexual couples create stable and dedicated relationships, which are equivalent to those of heterosexual couples. Homosexual couples are not less capable of raising children, because they are as mentally healthy and socially adapted as those of the heterosexual couples. That was the second conclusion. Whoever says there's other things science is lying. These are the largest companies in the world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The third fact is that at the moment there are such children. There are children who have grown up and who grow up with either a parent, single parent families of homosexuals or family with two homosexuals, through different procedures that we know about. We had the Rainbow on Sunday. It's a reality. What are you talking about? Why are you attacking these children to make them feel inferior? To say one last thing that we have heard these days, unfortunately, from the New Democracy. I read it by "KATHMERINA": "Abstraction or childbirth will be to the detriment of children because of a derivative position that may lead to bullying phenomena". The expression 'proliferational stigma', although I am a social scientist in years, I have never heard of it. I don't know who invented it here, but it says that if children who are either present or sponsored children under the terms of the law go to school, they will bully them, violence, psychological devaluation and assault. Would he say the same thing about children in need, disabled, who have any other health problems? Oh, no. He says it here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u266	So, what's he saying? Regulates, physicizes the attack, violence, says it's in society, and what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u268	If the violence, the attack, the bullying, is in this society, we have to stop it. But we cannot accept it and say that this is the argument that these children do not have such parents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Comrade, did you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u270	Wait a minute, Mr. President. This step is part of the modernisation of the Greek state, the urban state, which is only a step forward by this government. He builds a Greek, urban, social state and, at the same time, puts the seeds in order to radicalize it. On the one hand, we have this logic which is'stepping forward' and on the other hand, we have a logic and a policy from the New Democracy which is gradually separated from European achievements and data. And that's something that does great damage to Greece. Because they always say that Karamanlis has put us in the European Union, and so on. If you look at the decisions and statements of the leadership of the New Democracy in the last three or four months, they have been removed from European logic. We are also Europeans and radicals with measures like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Doussina. Mrs Vakis has the floor for seven minutes. Please do very much for keeping time. Tolerance exists, but do not exceed it much. Immediately after that, Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the Independent Greeks, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today on admission and childbirth is referred to by just one principle: no child in an institution, no child in unclaimed, no child without a family to offer him what has been deprived of by those who have left it: care and love! But it is also a bill defending human rights and in this respect the right to motherhood and fatherhood, inclusiveness and asterisks. The insurance margins and the provisions of the bill, I think, were analysed in detail by both rapporteurs and colleagues. Let me go into the spirit of the law. Facilitating and speeding up childbirth and taking over with full transparency and strict fitness check today is imperative. The institutions were flooded by children abandoned, while daily they parade pictures of children in debris of bombed towns, children out of their homes, children - goods, children in traffickers' boats to the unknown, children flying in sewers and uncovered. At the same time, struggle, stress and property are invested in the most advanced technologies of artificial arrests to fulfill the well - founded dream of motherhood and fatherhood, often in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the bill was completely wronged by the almost exclusively concentrating on the provision on the right to take up children from those who have entered into a cohabitation agreement, including homosexual couples. The meetings of the committees, the public sphere became a field of cross-referenced fires, screams and outrages about the right to take up gay couple children, mainly with the well-known argument of an immature and unprepared society to reconcile with homosexual parents, given the prevalence of the stereotype of heterosexual parents. Nature and biology do not prejudge roles or are destiny. The child’s love in the family environment and proper education do not relate to parents’ sexual orientation. Our problem is not whether parents are homosexuals or heterogeneous, but whether they are good or bad parents. The child is not only a donation of nature, but also of a state of welfare and equality that does not rule out, which does not deprive anyone and no one of the right to motherhood and fatherhood. Admission, in this regard, means offering love and assistance to the child who is deprived of his biological parents. The assumption is a form of hospitality, in which the child's contact with his or her biological parents is maintained, to which he or she can return at any time. Ladies and gentlemen, institutional areas are always subject to the suffering of public spheres and dialogue with society and dialogue with society require rules and arguments. Stresses and injustices do not, moreover, fit in an enlightened society. The ethical dialogue also requires a moral dialogue. A broad question how to avoid exclusions and marginalisations or the stigma of homosexual parents in a society that has unfortunately never been baptized in the face of Enlightenment and has recently recurred to unidentified nationalism and theocracy that are recovered from the naphthalene of the post-National State. Understandably, the concern about the degree of maturity of our society, when the latter has never been enlightened by the ungodlyness of some light of the Enlightenment that once provoked Europe and gave birth to rights, freedoms and revolutions. With a great objection, however: Societies in history never matured when the legislator simply listened to the common mind and mourned the dominant stereotypes and reflectives. The maturity and the advancement net have always brought about institutional areas that have been so shallow that they can cause vibration and shock, to assimilate and become common places, unless an implied admission of the objections to the contested provision is that you are born and you are not being made, and that homosexuals are abnormal, unless, behind the confrontations, there are conservative reflexes of a society that recently gave forgiveness to the racist delirences of the well-known Metropolitan, which if the law allowed it, would use it to untrue with homosexuals, for the simple reason that the latter are not God's creations. I would like to remind you - because we are forgetting - the bells that were being mourning when the symbiosis pact was voted on. I would like to remind you that the gender identity bill, namely the elementary, liberal and constitutionally fundamental right to race self-determination, was denounced by some almost as nature. I would like to remind him of the abducted look of a little child, Afghan Amir, when his school deprived him of the flag that the draw gave him because he was a different religion and what dark color. I would also like to remind you of the mob of our national selfishness and of the "father - religion - family", the recent decision by the Council of State on the lessons of the religious ones, during which the abolition of their catechism is proving toward the religious conduct of the Greek children. In 1939- and I close - eves of World War II and mediator of German Nazism, the founder of the Frankfurt School, Max Horkheimer, wrote: "He who does not want to talk about capitalism should not speak about fascism." By paraphrasing Jorkheimer, one could argue that anyone who wants to talk about human rights without exceptions, without any footnotes, should not talk about the negative and enemies of democracy, which are now multiplying dangerously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for twelve minutes. The following are Mrs Dritselli and the President, Mrs Christodoulopoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u274	Like most in this Chamber, I've grown up in a village. I remember from a very young age an older child than I do. I would not like to give a characterisation, but it was not particularly intelligent. He was the weak link. Almost all the other children of the village - I'm sorry to say - took off their repulsive parents - I don't know who - on a weak child, which was the village's 'attraxion' for too many years. I was seeing that this setup, this situation, what I hear here is bullying, that some people are pushing, was accepted by almost all of the small village society. It was considered normal that he was weak and has to leave the middle. That's at least how I collected it. I would like to refer to a few examples, because lately I have heard the word 'bullying'. Stellakis was a child locked in an institution for eight years. In the eight years that he was in the foundation, no one ever visited him. He didn't have a visit! Survive. At some point, he's escaped from the foundation and we found him looking for dumpsters to find food. A life-threatening man, my friend, has already picked up this child. That was seven, eight years ago. Today, Stellakis has come to his clubs. He did what he had been deprived of his family during the eight years that no one dealt with him. He's a kid I know about. I wanted to invite him to speak at the board hearing, but somewhere I hesitated, because it was a personal given. The story of this child is this: His parents were not particularly intelligent people - I do not like extreme expressions - and his mother was also a user. They were nine kids with different parents. All those kids at once got into institutions. Three of these children died and never dealt with anyone, no one was interested in why and how these children died. Two of these children are almost planted and the rest survive. I do not want to be strict about these institutions, because some of them I really have no hesitation to say that they are doing their job well. But to a large extent, they don't. Even the best of these are institutions. A child doesn't normally grow up there. A little girl, now seventeen, Stellakis' sister, every time they take her back into the foundation, she's having a nervous breakdown for what's going to happen to her, that's going to go into a hellhole. However, she has the feeling of helping two of her sisters who are really - apologise for the expression - 'plants'. This is the reality for those who have abundantly criticise, it would be good for them to get into, get in and visit these institutions, see that besides a dish of food and a glass of water, a child needs something else that doesn't have it. Recently an employee of such an institution said that after twelve years when another child died under strange circumstances in the institution, no one ever bothered to know what cause this child died. It's been twelve years. I have the evidence for anyone who wants it. Still, there are prosecutors who trade in children. You haven't heard of it? First time you hear it? Firms - in introductory words the word -'mothers' do this job. I don't want to stigmatize any charges or any foreigners or others. Do we know or don't we know? I don't want to say names right now, because for me that's a delicate matter. I was amazed at this because it is an issue, in my view, that is so sensitive that it does not have political controversy. I have the statutes of the social state of Sweden established in Erlander and Uluf Palme. The first thing this politician did was a social state - a point of reference for the whole planet. I heard before Mr. Dousina who had an unspeakable argument. I would like to say that whoever reads this statute - I do not know if it is a coincidence - will see that it has a lot in common with this great social section that comes too late in our country. This is of great importance. Pensioners have an instrument and claim their rights and well they do. The Members, the doctors, the teachers, the judges, all of them. The weak link of this society is not just small children - who are - but they are abandoned, they are literally thrown small children. Sensitivity should be at the heights of anyone who really believes is putting a small stone in the phrase'social state'. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] The whole story has been focused on three. I would like to remind you that the safeguards that this bill puts are many and - I would say - very strict. A father who is a gambler who beats his wife, who is an alcoholic, who owes, who has been convicted, clearly and should not be a contractor. I could tell you dozens of examples of women who may have the good intention, but who do not have the opportunity. To a person, let's say, with an exaggerated hysterical behaviour whether he is a man or a woman, whether a single parent family or a woman who is lost her husband or a child who is entitled to adopt it, the insurance system must function carefully. There's a question if he can do it. My opinion is he's doing it. I've heard a lot of friends say that ignorance kills. I believe a lot of those who criticize the bill haven't read it. I have a feeling they haven't read it. It's a shocking intersection that's too late to come. We come to the issue referred to in Article 8. We're talking from morning to night about three. Who is blocking this committee which is not one? Every month he can control - exceptionally sometimes - to do whatever he wants. The assumption is, in principle, temporary. Of course, it might last, but we're judging that. Who tells us that a heterogeneous couple of a Priori is capable or is capable of a single person and is not capable of a person having a particular sexual preference? Yeah, maybe that too isn't capable. Why would this separation take place? Why is this separation taking place? I want to understand it. Again, many of these children die, some become 'plants' and it's a matter of survival. Who prevents the security checks from being carried out by the Minister to get the assumption back? No one's blocking them. I have listened with great respect - I do not know if I understood correctly, perhaps I did not understand, and I am very steadfast when I heard it - the speech by Mrs Olga Kefaliannis, a speech that I could borrow and copy, just to mention it and nothing else. I have not even exchanged a good day, but I have remained positive from the way that my colleague has dealt with the subject of today's bill. I would like to end by saying a word. We have spent hours listening to Manos Hadjidakis' “Great Love”, we read Kawafi's "Ithaca" and we received messages of humanism, we went to Epidaurus and we saw Kun and we learned what to say, we read “The Portrait of Dorian Grey” and we were shocked as students and we admired Lord Byron, who left the comfort of his country and came to be sacrificed in Greece. To these people some people in this Chamber do not recognize the fundamental right to humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Panayota Dritselli has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, today I am pleased to see this bill debate, firstly because it seems to me that - and I am not talking at all about the Golden Dawn - this bill is embraced and welcomed by all sides. So the necessity and the incision that this bill introduces, in my opinion - and everyone has said so, is not just my opinion - for a supreme attitude of life, love and altruism, which for many years seems to have been strangled in bureaucratic gears. Apart from not paying any attention to children, however, it seems - and we have seen it since the dismantling of various circuits - and the opacity, but also, above all, the marketing of infants, with all the consequences that this might have had. The second reason why I am touched at this is that, when we talk about children, we cannot be moved and talk politically alone - and I am glad that this government really seems to have at the core and at the center of its policy a tactic and a strategy for protecting the child. If I'm not mistaken, this bill is the third or fourth and it does the commitment of Mrs. Fotio, but also of the Government that 2018 will be the year for the child. With school meals, family allowances and nursery schools and pre-school education, it seems that the child is finally getting into this society and in a society that in the last ten years has been plagued by a crisis, the place he deserves. This bill, therefore, introduces a section and badly we call it this way, because it should not even be the case in recent years that we need to deal with this attitude of life - I say again - people who want to share love with children who are in institutions and who are suffering - not as a rule, but usually - from unbelievable suffering and unbelievable time-consuming process of seven and eight years in order to get away from the cold walls of institutions. This bill, therefore, will give impetus to thousands of families who want to have access to childbirth procedures and, above all, - I say again - will deepen to a goal which is child protection and dehydration. There's been a lot of noise about this bill. Basically, the objectives of this bill were distorted. Most of all, these innovations were not involved in the public debate, because transparency is finally being strengthened and the procedures that are now also a back-up to many families, who want to go ahead with adoption or assumption. For many years there has been a rule in Greece. There is a fragmentation of institutions, both public and regional, municipal and private. Many of these institutions have problems, but they have shortcomings. A lot is leading - and we can say it - and they provide standard services. Others have not even joined a single catalogue and there is no direct picture of the work they are doing. At the same time, thousands of families cannot guarantee rapid access to the process, so that these children are trapped in institutions for many years, with what this may mean for their psychosocial development. So this bill responds to these problems in two basic ways, to which we deserve to refer. The first relates to the transition of services and entities to the digital age. The creation of registers and assumptions in connection with adoption, but also the connection with the Special Decentralised Registers, is a section which should be immediately completed. By creating these bases, the system establishes procedures for transparency and efficiency. The second innovation of the draft law is to speed up the procedures relating to social research and the suitability of candidate parents. Today these procedures are delaying due to the shortages of social services and the great burden they are obviously called upon to manage. So this bill responds to the problem with the possibility of entrusting social research to social workers of the Association of Social Workers of Greece, that is, a professional and scientific sector, which has been operating for fifty years. So this bill coordinates all the actors on a single objective, that of dismantling child protection. This change does not mean - and it must not mean - that the state is not interested in improving the image of children's protection institutions. However, the first objective of public policy on this issue is to keep children as low as possible in an institution environment, even if this operates with the highest social and scientific standards. The upbringing of a child in a family environment is obviously the first goal and it is based all the philosophy of the bill. In this context, of course, the occupational assumption is also included, an institution which is introduced for the first time in the case of children, whether with disabilities or with disabilities. I would like to refer here to two articles on which various extremes, xenophobic and homophobic have been heard, beyond all social logic, as I will say and not just the scientists. The first issue concerns Article 5 and the National Register of minors, which is created to record all minors in children's protection institutions. This register is for the first time seen as a reality which has existed in recent years and in our country. The unaccompanied applicants will now join. For all the other things we hear about the alteration of the new generation and all the relevant ones, we do not need to mention any more. I don't think they're answering any logic. These children, the chauffeurs, are our children - we have to say it - and the care for their psychosocial development must be our case and no one else. The second question is, of course, about Article 8 and the extension of the right to take over and to couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, both homogeneous and heterogeneous. There have been various inconceivable and unintentional sounds about this article. Family happiness is not related to whether a couple are homogeneous or heterogeneous, but to the affection and emotional ties that develop and make family. Association by a homosexual couple can offer a child everything it needs, just as a heterogeneous couple can do. That is the first issue. The second issue is what has been strongly underlined by the institutions: Psychosocial behaviour and the development of a child by living with a foster couple is not related to their psychosocial behaviour or determined, and we must not allow it to be determined, by the look of others, against the sexual choices of their foster parents. A foster family can consist of heterogeneous couples, homogeneous individuals, or it can be monogenic, because that is precisely the Greek reality. I come to the great, 'training' argument in the New Republic about social stigmatism. Here I come to say and wonder whether this social stigma is being strengthened by a attitude in which it is faced with whether or not a parent is worthy of his or her sexual orientation or on the basis of whether he is good or not proven by scientific bodies. If the New Democracy considers that a society can go forward or can define itself as progressive only because it says so, without recycled stereotypes, as it does now, without energizing conservative features and reflexes, as it does now, and without turning its back on an existing reality, then tell me what else reinforces this social stigmatisation. We should all understand that children in families who are not necessarily made up of heterogeneous couples are now one reality and we should accept it. If we inflame our children's mentality that these children are a lower god or do not grow up normally like other children belonging to other families, then be sure that you get and turn the finger on these children and society, but also on schools. Finally, not to mention the family's readiness, to say something completely different about how a society can be ready or not. I am not going to talk about abortion, abortion, political marriage or anything. I'll say the following. About twenty years ago, in 2000, the brother who chose for a woman in his life his partner who is of Indian origin. When the marriage took place in Trikala, I inform you that the local media came to cover the event as something unprecedented. I imagine that if this happens today in both Trikala and my village, it will obviously not be dealt with in the same way. I wish that in twenty years from now thousands of children have left institutions, grown up in families with love and affection, and here all of us together are proud to have brought this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to agree on something. The end of today's sitting is 22.30'. When this time arrives, we will stop and have spoken to those who have spoken by that time. I say this because if it had been observed and if time were to be observed properly, we could have reached the number fifty on the list of speakers. We won't get to the number 50, but the meeting will be over at 22:30. I'm telling you this so we can be informed. Mrs Anastasia Christodoulopoulos, Vice-President of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u278	Good evening. Having followed almost all the debate, I think it is worth a little account. In the debate that has preceded, the whole matter was centred mainly by the critics of the bill on whether it is good or bad, moral or immoral and others taking part in the institution of the assumption of homosexual couples. It is not just that the bill was wronged, but I think that, once again, Parliament was used as a means to proclaim its morality and to pretend how sensitive it is for children. For what kids in the meantime? The children who are in the foundations, which I'm sure none of those who have ever spoken have even visited them on Christmas, that he has not gone to an orphanage, that he has not gone to an organization that adopts children, that he has not seen the drama experienced by children, and of course no one has ever gone to pick up a child with 24-hour leave to take it to the theater, take it out, take it out with his own children. But they come here today to shed crocodile tears. What's the matter? Who are these self-determined protectors of minors to be taken over? Who invited them? Where does it turn out that there is a risk to these children? Are there a bunch of mechanisms and institutions to control the assumption? There are, firstly, natural parents, who have huge rights: to intervene at any time, to request withdrawal of admission, to ask for replacement, to ask for and take their children back. Secondly, there is the prosecutor of minors who is “Kerberos” for what is happening and especially for these children. There are still social workers who take care of and monitor closely and supervise the conditions under which minors are living. There are so many other social protection institutions, which only Members of Parliament did not expect us here to tell us how interested these children are. Because this is where they are, gentlemen. Because instead of talking about what assumptions are, how many children and why they are in the foundations, how we can break dehydration, we are talking about homosexuals. Today, all these hours - I can't believe it - what happens after all? A bill comes, the subject of which is regulated by minors. And we're talking here, and we've fallen into the loumba, and many of them on the SYRIZA side answering, like the issue of regulation being the homosexuals and their rights. And we are having a debate about what the rights of homosexuals are, what are the limits, whether they can adopt, whether they can be contractors and what should we do, society how to deal with it? While the issue is different: what is the institution of the assumption? First of all, those who listen to us, who do not know these things, will think that the institution of admission has just been introduced and all panics are coming out either to defend it or to conquer it. This institution has been in force for years in Greece. What's the matter? The children who are in an establishment must stay there? Or did this legislative initiative - and it has been late, I would say - just speed up the time, but through procedures that are objective, credible, time-consuming, that do not cause issues that do not hurt people? We'll talk about the possibility, because - you know - through the assumption of two hundred will happen: or the child will return to his physical family, or the child, through the contractors, will be adopted. These two routes, how do we guarantee them? I would like to say that there is not much for social research, for the replacement of the contractor, if it prevents the child from coming into contact with their natural parents. That's what we need to talk about here. And what are we talking about? We're talking about three thousand children, so much for acceptance or adoption. And how many are interested? Innumerable! So, what do you all think now, that you have monopolized and disoriented and stirred poison to the souls of society? What do you mean? That when the contractors enter the register, will the homosexual be chosen, the only one? Because until now he could also take a child and a widow and a divorced one, and anyone. No one was worried. Everyone was having a good night's sleep. They had nothing to do with it. Society nothing, Christianity, morality, everything was perfect. Suddenly, now, all this panic has come out to poison society. So where is he? To reconstruct the issues. The social workers, when they have hundreds of applications for admission and five children, who will they choose? Aren't they going to choose the best family? Are they not going to choose not only to have a private home that the law does not provide, but also to have a country house and a home in London or Paris? That's what they're gonna do with it. On the basis of the criteria that a child who has been abused and neglected in the institutions by his physical family for various reasons must be loved and loving. Here we should discuss all these issues, what institutions are, not just religious, but other, private. We know from the nursing homes. We know what was revealed for the Children's House in Piraeus. We know everything. How they abuse people. How they make them characters to avenge society then. To avenge everything. Why do they miss them? They lack love and affection. That's why when there are people who claim to handle it and manage it, we can't turn their backs on them. So the question here is not whether homosexuals or heterogeneous or who will take a minor child to give him love, but how society will be involved in the issue of child welfare. We are a child-centered society, especially the Greek society. What we do for our children must ensure that all children enjoy these rights and benefits of love, affection, care. In conclusion, I would like to say that this issue and the debate that has preceded it was another missed opportunity to discuss the most acute social problems that our country has. We are inferior to the circumstances, because what mobilizes us is superstition, prejudice, political dispute for no reason. Ladies and gentlemen, we are allowed to raise a case for Turkey, for Skopje, for immigration. But when it comes to children and their protection, it is forbidden to be hypocrites, to shed crocodile tears, in order to address an audience that we imagine exists, because we underestimate the Greek people. We underestimate the Greek society, which knows and understands what it plays every time, in order to get a bite, indifferent to the misfortune it exists, to the pain and natural parents who leave their child and to the child who does not have his natural parents, and who is criminally delaying being found in a family to suck love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs Catherine Iglez has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law that brings us to every article with the question: How open is our arms and our hearts individually and collectively to support and protect all these children who for many reasons are not with their family? How can we put a port in order to correct the bad texts of the past? Obviously I do not ask the question with the logic of compassion and charity. This question is deeply social. It is a question of social solidarity and of collective responsibility for children. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone in this Chamber will disagree with the need to protect children. This has also been seen in the discussions before the committees and today's debate. The question is, however, how is this good intention in society and in practice being applied? With this in mind, therefore, the provisions enabling data to be collected and organized are the first step in the direction of solving the problem if we can say that. When I talk about a problem, I am not talking about the reason why children are without a family. I think this is a very important debate, but different. Problem I mean organizing and controlling the process of taking on and giving up childcare. Therefore, the registries which I consider to be important. Through a structured process of data recording we will be able to have the image of reality, so that we can take decisions. Equally important, however, is the establishment of the National Admission and Adoption Council, which is the final instrument for policy on administering and giving birth. At the same time, however, the procedures are decentralised, as the register and requests of stakeholders are interconnected through the social protection centres and social services of the regions. The aim is, in any case, to speed up procedures for the benefit of children, and the benefit of children is to find themselves in a secure family context as soon as possible and to avoid entering an institution - and this requires the cooperation of many different public bodies and public bodies in general. Depreciation and suppression of state structures is a fact in which no one will be blinded, and that burdens all governments over time. In any case, however, this bill does not attempt to abolish state structures or the necessary state control, but to reduce the time of procedures, as I have already said, the protection of children and their inclusion in a safe family context, as well as the institutional and scientific sound safeguarding of the procedure. Therefore, the long-term demand to strengthen the state structures that will support these processes will always find me in agreement. However, it is necessary to have, in our view, the interdisciplinary staff of the relevant services and bodies, as well as interdisciplinary cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the child to go to a foster family. The big question for us, as a society, is the holistic support of these families - and of parents and contractors - and clearly of children themselves. On several occasions we must also investigate the conditions under which the child will return to his parental family and create the conditions for this. For this reason, each family should be supported by a stable multidisciplinary group so that assumption, as a social institution, has its proper place. In this context, there should be provision for explicit support and family monitoring systematically, as well as for family monitoring in relation to the development of the institution of assumption. Colleagues and colleagues, this bill, which touches nuclear issues in our society once again, has caused the most conservative reflexes. It is very easy to disorientate the discussion whether homosexual couples are entitled to be contractors or to give birth. It turns out once again to talk about discrimination, despite what it really means to be a person capable of becoming a parent contractor or to give birth. But the time has long passed for these debates. We have to talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the conditions under which homosexual couples, but also about people who have chosen to live out of marriage, become foster parents, and give birth to any other couple, to set the conditions we choose as a society, so that the choices of childbirth and assumption are supported by modern public multidisciplinary networks. The attitude to offer love and hug does not discern gender identities and marriage certificates. We have an obligation to modernise institutions, to substantiate our approaches, to listen to society that is going on and to give the battle to act most of what is written in a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Georgios Ursouzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill dealing with the child. The institutions of the adoption and assumption of minors are the main and most important institutions of child protection, particularly abused children. The aim of these institutions is to ensure a warm, family environment, where they will feel comfortable, safe and enjoy social acceptance in the environment that they live and create. In Greece, many public and private institutions do not respond to their role, do not heal the wounds that children carry from unsuccessful families or who failed for various reasons. However, the institutions that successfully respond to their role - and there are such institutions, such as the initiative for the child you had the opportunity, Minister, to inaugurate the day-to-day care centre - are well known to be much better if the children were developed in a family environment, enjoying a normal life. In the debate on the draft law, among other things, the following were noted. The common conviction is that the bill is moving in the right direction, as far as dealing with chronic problems in the adoption and assumption process are concerned. There is finally an attempt to deal with the phenomenon of corruption in the process of adopting an assumption which, unfortunately, has not been mentioned extensively, we all know that there is, on a large scale, even. It is attempting to create an electronic register of candidate family donors, as well as children for admission. It goes without saying that the state must finally gain a clear picture of reality. The situation in institutions is bad, and they do not provide a safe environment for the host children. This must be changed immediately, regardless of whether the aim of the bill is to destabilise children and access to a warm family environment. The vote of the bill alone does not address the problem. We all know that the necessary tools for monitoring and supporting child protection actions are not sufficient. Financial support is therefore required for the structures, both public and private. This was submitted by several bodies and must be done. The National Assurance and Adoption Council is set up with an important institutional role in synergy and coordination of the relevant ministries and bodies. Finally, the objective of limiting time in the adoption process, which is currently lasting beyond the intervention period of six and seven years, is absolutely necessary and must be achieved. The success of the bill will be largely judged there. That's the bill. As far as Article 8 is concerned, which has been a great deal of talk and has, in my view, justified in its new form, followed by the changes, I think we are evading the strict and unsuccessful series of candidates, as originally foreseen. I read the article before it changes: "Appropriate to become contractors, in accordance with the provisions in force, they are families consisting of spouses or having concluded a cohabitation agreement with or without children, individual, single, single, divorced or widowed or with or without children who may be related to any grade of blood with the minor child. Amongst more suitable candidates for parenting, the option is to be made in accordance with the order of reference referred to in the preceding subparagraph.’ We now go on the basis of how, on a case-by-case basis, the social services and the supervisory authorities will be judged by an ad hoc case-by-case decision, while being a dominant element of crisis in the choice of the best contractor for the best status of the child, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been a law of the State since 1992, and indeed with increased power, because it is an international convention. The article at issue is therefore substantially amended in the following way: ‘Between more suitable candidates for parenting, the choice is always made in the interests of the minor in the light of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by Law No 2101/1992’. It is therefore abrogated that the strict series of candidates, as originally foreseen, where priority was given to all pairs, heterogeneous and homogeneous, against all other groups or categories of candidates, ignoring the actual needs and rights of the child. I would like to stress that this law concerns the rights of the child and not the rights of any other social group that obviously exist. It is intended as a predominant criterion for the assumption of respect for the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Just a few words about the Child Rights Convention. Perhaps the most important text is the 1989 International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has signed a hundred and ninety and is law in our country. Children are considered all girls and boys from zero to eighteen years old. All children are equal regardless of language, religion, views, property, situation and particular needs or appearance. Decisions concerning children must be taken before all the interests of children. The state must take all appropriate measures to implement children's rights. Children have the right to life, survival and development. Children must be protected from all forms of violence, insult, abandonment, physical or psychological violence, both at home and outside of it. Children with physical or spiritual disabilities have the right to live under conditions that guarantee their dignity. When a child is placed in an institution or foster family, the state must monitor and control. When a child does not live with his family or cannot take care of it, he has the right to adoption, the foster family or the proper roof - foundation. The state must finally take all measures to ensure that an adoption is in line with the law and is taken into account at all times and above all in the interests of the child. The question raised by Article 8 does not concern the interpretation of terms of admission and adoption, as it has been heard, as well as the legal consequences they produce, but the environment in which children are to be developed at their vulnerable and sensitive age, to ensure the best environment in the home and outside of it. This is judged by the special services at last - with relief - by experts based on children's rights, as defined by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, without stereotypes and prejudices. So the question is not whether it will be voted on by us who have reacted, Minister, in view of the article, but by those who have been raped and quickly said yes, and now we have to see it collectively, all together and help overcome the prejudices and any misunderstandings that have been created, without the cause of belonging to us which we have reacted to, I repeat. To conclude, I would like to say that the essence is that there was a fruitful dialogue that could be considered a success, if it resulted in a as secure conclusion as possible. This has been achieved in part. In practice, it will show the real result. I would point out again: the sacred right to the happiness of the child is already laid down by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. I trust the social institutions and justice, which at last assume an important role for their responsibility. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have devoted time to putting forward opinions in the context of the drafting of the bill, my friends who have successfully and unselfishly dealt with the protection of the child, and have helped me, of course, the Counselor of the Child, who has significantly improved the bill with the very good proposals he has put forward and accepted from you. I am personally pleased with the optimisation made during the debate and of course with the radical change in Article 8. In its original form, I do not think it would be accepted, at least by me. There's been too much talk. I won't. I will remain committed to the substance of the bill, which relates to the child's sacred right to live as happy as possible in a society that he deserves. Why? Because if the child gets away with it, there's hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u283	Independent MP, Dimitrios Koukoutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. I don't like going back to the past, nor do I like scratching wounds, but because Members of the CSCE and SYRIZA reported, I'd like to say a little story about a child. In 1948 a fourteen - year - old child in the mountainous tumor of Tayget lost his leg from landmines. His father was in the mountain. He fought on the right side. Other children had parents fighting on the other side. That kid lost his leg. To be found in Athens at that time from Kalamata, from the mountainous tumor of Taygetos, it was like freezing in the North Pole. That kid's here. This kid is my father. I still have him. He's raised three kids. He was man in the Royal Schools of Friedrich. He taught arts along with children from rebellious families, who had also lost hands, legs. All live together so far brethren. They're friends. He has friends who come to eighty-five, in their eighty-six years, they are seen and loved as brothers. So let it go. Don't scratch old wounds. The institution of adoption in our country has never had an integrated institutional framework, although it is among the most sensitive issues in our society. Is the adoption, therefore, of a child's upbringing, is it only a great desire for a couple to have a child, or is it also the need for a child to live in a family with love, protection and safety in the psychology that will be provided to him from now on? Adoption should be governed by high standards of morals and values over time. The child who is being abandoned, through his new family, must have the right chances for his social integration, so we must take very seriously into account the social stereotypes, which are fortunately still strong in terms of the institution of the family. If these standards are violently overturned, as you wish to see it today because of your ideas, which, of course, share them, and a part, unfortunately, of your right-wing political benefits, the problems that will arise will be huge for society and for these children. According to in-depth studies, it has not been clarified how parents themselves understand the same sex and what they will develop with the safety that will arise if there are no distinct parental roles. Another aspect in these studies is that parental standards when they are missing create significant obstacles to the healthy mental development of the child, which is, moreover, the basis of the decision to give the child to a foster family. That's why we're here today. That's what we're talking about. What can sexual choice, which at the bottom of the scripture, is a strictly private decision, with the institution of the family, resulting from a people’s payment with a strict understanding of the normal biological relationship between a man and a mother? It is a pretext that homosexual couples are not a natural human development, let alone the timeless institution of the family. Evolution is to follow natural laws, to observe the moral values that have been hard tested over the years and have endured currents and micro-pressures at times. The times we live are, unfortunately, delusional in the majority of their expressions. As much as you are trying to present this regulation as a pioneering step for the Greek society, it will remain as something that is not interpreted. The family has continued to contribute to the formation of the basic values and views, which may be of decisive importance for individuals, even after they leave the family home. Are we going to start teaching our children that terms, such as father and mother, do not apply or contain a relativity? How do we explain gender differences? How do we set standards? Why, let us not forget, children far more than adults are looking, operating on standards, seeking them, seeking them. In conclusion, there are key questions from the scientific community that are not answered by the proponents of this article. Will these children have formal development or will they have difficulties? You say that we need to allow the adoption by homosexual parents and for humanitarian reasons. So in the name of this humanism in that way I want and without being asked, we will deprive some children of the parental or paternity primitive model, of their mother's hug, breast-feeding and so many other things that children have enjoyed in the last ten years. How is it possible to speak today of the inalienable right of these people to raise a child when this right deprives them itself of the ancient order? Imagine what problems there will be. These have emerged in the past from children, who have discovered at an older age that they are children in a foster family. For example, in the case of an assumption or adoption by a homosexual couple, imagine the children will be informed that they have to deal with an additional problem in their environment. Kids, as you know, are aggressive. It is well known that children's society is extremely aggressive and hard on the supreme level. Why, then, these ideas? Why these obsessions, this precursor, this study? Are we drinking? Is there a certain reason? The answer was very good in an article by Elias Papanastassiou, calling you the left "post-modern", who exiled biology and considered organic construction as social construction first. You are basically saying that you are not born as a man or as a woman, but are created or shaped by society, thus wanting to degrade the biological core of the sexes and overthrow - listen! - social influence. You have promoted freedom of choice in supreme good, because you despise notions such as'social morality' and'social responsibility'. A symposium of public and university bureaucrats call themselves intellectuals, who abuse terms that do not understand and corroborate as pheasants for their ideological greatness. I would add that the majority of the parties today speak of a vote in conscience. Of course you will have the support on your right - we are not discussing this - from the Social Democrats and so on. Everyone's asking for a vote against conscience. Now in consciousness? When decisions were made on the economic impoverishment of the country and with the previous government, and now, you were talking about "hard party discipline" right and left. Strange things! Ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed in this Europe with the - I will say it - children's parties, with the parties of the beasts, shame in you who are bringing such a bill and shame mainly on me, which I cannot eradicate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u285	Mr Nikolaos Paradulopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction that I wanted to make covered by the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Christodoulopoulos. On this matter, all I would like to add to or add to what she said is that the phenomenon of this tension and commitment to homosexuality, which the House shows in its discussions, is not new. Laws on the rural economy, on terrorism, incorporation of directives, issues relating to corruption, national issues, very quietly have been passed by Parliament. Do not even have a bill that is being discussed here has the slightest indirect connection with homosexuality. There we have tension, aggression of many sayings and a long duration of discussions. Madam Minister, if Article 8 was not there, I do not know whether we would be able to reach a day and a half in plenary. Of course, I do not want to make the same mistake and refer to it. I will try to get into this with an example, not of a child but of many children. Many years ago, perhaps a decade ago, I had been in a debate in the Thessaloniki Court with the participation of the prosecutor of minors, judiciary of minors and judiciary of juveniles, and all officials were very concerned and careful - I was also invited for a scientific opinion - what can be done with these children. They were going to the juvenile court, children, and the court had found that they had stolen something, a moped for example, and they didn't know what to do. The judges explained that they didn't want to put them in jail, they didn't want to put them in a closed institution. Maybe they didn't go to jail. At that time, adult penitentiary had dimensions in Article 127. It wasn't like after n.4322. They explained how they understood that if the child goes to a closed room, to a closed institution, or to a prison, the prediction is worse for his future and his relationship to infraction and that it is better to stay out with some supervision, with some attention. But were there any guarantees that this child will not be abandoned, will it not plunder? No, why were they asking the child "do you have a family?" And he said, "No, I've lost my parents, I can't find them, my parents are out." The judge was embarrassed and usually as an emergency he chose on the basis of the potential expressions in the law the measure. Terminal? This is where we can go to the assumption? No, because the story was revealed in that conversation that it had a follow-up, which I had not known until then. They said: “Most of these children lie. Of course they know where their parents are, but if they say where their parents are, the police will go to arrest them, because their parents are illegal in the country, because they have been deported and if their residence is known, they will be deported because others are being persecuted.” Children prefer to say "I don't know where my parents are" and go to jail rather than reveal their parents, see them arrested and lose the very single life support they have. I would like to say with all this that the importance of institutionalising and rationalising both adoption and admission of minors is a measure of enormous importance to the family, certainly also for the efforts of social discipline. The bill's positive is proud. We are now dealing with an institution of the Contractors' Registry, which allows transparency and rationalisation, but also with assumption. We have institutions. such as a professional assumption, concerning cases where special scientific attention is needed, such as children with health problems or with psychological problems. We also have cases of assumption for children with criminal problems, such as the ones I mentioned before. The attempt to rationalise and support children towards these problems has - I think - features of the state of welfare in our country. The welfare state in our country has been shaken - and we all know that - and it has been shaken in many respects. Once again, when we see the institutions of supervision of the admission, the Parent Contractor Register, institutions of support with the training of the applicant parents with the adoption or the candidate contractors, and when we see the state accept that it will also pay professional social workers or health workers, in order to help children, we take a breath. The welfare state exists or - if you want - reborn. That is why I would like to congratulate the Minister, because this turn seems to me to be very important. Just one word to say about Article 8, because I heard that my name was mentioned, it was said that I had said something else when the law on the cohabitation agreement passed here. Obviously, I hadn't said anything else. I said at the time that this law concerns the cohabitation pact, that that law does not establish childbirth by homosexual couples who conclude an agreement. And I said that why? Because that law just didn't say it. It is not even my argument today that the adoption is another one, but that we are dealing with phenomena which would make it difficult to implement the institution itself - as an alternative, in any case - as an alternative to the assumption. I think that the regulation which is currently being introduced is a regulation which gives a very good outcome to the assumption, especially because there are institutions for monitoring assumptions, because there is a well-established register and because there are even institutions for lifting, if experts, contractors, social workers, who have been appointed, find any malfunction. My congratulations again to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u288	It was a prototype, in fact, for the majority MEP to congratulate the Minister of his party. Thank you. I would very much like to say, for many reasons, provisions and articles correctly in this bill, that I would be in a position from here at the Step to say what Mr Paradoxopoulos said. Ladies and gentlemen, right from the outset I would like to make it clear that this infamous article 8 is what is wrong with an interesting bill, with a number of positive provisions, a bill that could be better and better if the real objective was a broad cross-party consensus on a matter as important as the assumption and adoption of children. So rightly I would like to repeat what I often say in and outside Ethiopia, whenever I get the opportunity, will always find me contrary to what is contrary to the evangelical teaching, the human nature, the morality and the worthy traditions of the Greeks. I want to repeat for all of us that during the Christian church marriage is a mystery. And the family for Greece is also the most powerful, reliable and firm institution, which has even kept society up and up in these last years of the Memorandum Crisis. So I don't want and I'm not going to contribute with my vote to anything that hurts Christian authorities and attempts to alter the form of the family, which was also Dad, mom and children, and not parent number 1 and parent number 2. I know that some people will blame me again as a backward, as a scavenger, as a homophobic. It's just the mountains from the snow. And let me have said it a thousand times, I feel the obligation to repeat it from this Stepma, that of course every man is free to make his choices, of course, in the area of his sexism. But while I and others may be accused of being homophobic, those who build against Greek Christians a high wall of hatred are characterised as progressive and not, for example, as homogenians. However, in fear of accusations and persecution, I cannot accept and vote in favour of a regulation that stimulates Greek Christian customs and is a direct attack on this sacred institution of the family, with huge questions raised for the smooth psychosomatic and social development of children, who can be adopted by homosexual couples. Honestly, I wonder and am reliant on the fact that those who defend these traditional Greek Orthodox principles within Parliament must feel as a minority when in Greek society we know that the Greek Orthodox principles are a terrible majority. That is why I do not understand the intention of the government to introduce Article 8 into the draft law which is being discussed today. Did he need to show such a so-called progressive sign on this important issue, for which the greatest advancement is to simplify procedures for assignments and adoptions so that all children can find a warm hug? Is there greater modernisation, with great social value than getting hundreds of families to adopt a child, who so much want, but cannot or to do so, should they resort to illegality? The government really had no need to pursue scandals and divisions in this regard, but it does. And it will certainly have calculated, no matter how much it is that the consequences of all the Greeks who believe that every child has the right to grow up with the model of father and mother and not the model of two fathers or two mothers. I must also say that once again I am saddened by the neo-liberal attitude of the New Democracy, which re-infringes the long-term values of social and patriotic centre-rights, and that is why it has ceased to be the house of many of its fighters, but also of young people who do not want to bow down, to worship the left, nor the neo-liberal ideas and ideals, which, as it turns out, are converging to many. Let it be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Everyone sees it today. They see the House here. That is why Mrs Bakoyannis agrees, but her brother disagrees, there is only Mrs Marcos here to say that she disagrees. I say this because just the day before Patras was the Pan-Hellenic Association of Theologians, who told me that they too are asking to see Mr Mitsotakis, but he is not empty, he is not doing anything. He had, however, seen for an hour and a half - and good - the respective associations and associations of homosexuals. The seat and his debt. I personally have taken it against the pure and Orthodox patriots Greeks who are the overwhelming basis of this fact. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish by saying a few words about scientific studies. There's a lot to be heard here, by the way. I am sure those colleagues from SYRIZA, who have even tabled these studies in the Minutes, will be aware of them - they have also been published in the newspaper 'Dimoratia' in the last few days - other studies showing the tragic results of gay couples. It does not mean that those who have tabled are not valid, but I imagine they will not say that the others published, too, do not comply with scientific criteria. Do you know that citizens who grew up in gay families in the United States have resorted to justice by describing their own experiences and asking that the right of adoption be cancelled by homosexual couples? Do you also know that a group of citizens in Slovenia launched a petition against the law and appealed to the courts to put the matter in a referendum? And that's what happened. How much did it take? A little over 63% of the voters. Result? He rejected the bill of redefining marriage as a union between two consenting adults, not least as it came, between a man and a woman. I only mention these as examples to say that there are no deposits and in any case that children's souls cannot be treated as experimental animals, although at least I would like at least to wish that referendums could also be held here in Greece on such matters. If there were referendums on this matter, really, what do you think would be the result? What do you think the Greeks and Greeks would say? Would they agree to ascensions and adoptions by homosexual parents? The rejection would be overwhelming. It has, of course, been heard by fellow Members that this is why we need to change society here. After all, I have heard that Mr Mitsotakis also says that this is why he cannot vote for it, because society is still not ready and will do everything he can to prepare it, not to keep traditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Comrade, finish because you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u290	I shall conclude, Mr President. Too bad and unfair that this bill is becoming a field for bitter findings and very serious disagreements. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece argues that Article 8 is unacceptable, as it endangers the right of the minor to form and complete his or her personality and psychosomatic development freely and makes it vulnerable to possible social reactions. Obviously, we do not demand that everyone adopt our views. Let us not, however, demand that we adopt theirs too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u292	We respect their right to choose their way of life, but we do not grant Greek Christians the right to defend their faith and ideals. That is why we will vote against. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u293	Mrs Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the bill. It has been said since this morning that this is an excellent bill, an innovative bill. I'll just stay in two or three parts. To repeat, we can also inspire a few things about what the bill is essentially: the children at the heart of the law, the children at the centre of a welfare state, which, as I have heard quite rightly, I think Mr Paradise is being re-established. That is the concern of the bill, that is the concern of the Ministry, that is the concern of the Minister, Mrs. Fotio, who has proved it on other occasions. There are still invisible children of a lower God in institutions closed down. We all agree that no matter how good the foundation is, the work of a welfare state is the dehydration of children. We may be a society of paedophiles, but unfortunately only for our own children, not for these children who, whether they be refugees or gypsies, or anything else, are excluded. National Register of Minors. Apart from stopping fragmentation, there is a central one - that is, finally uterine of how many children and where these children exist - something else very important that has had to be done for many decades and would have saved society from many dramas. Physical parents are recorded, so children as adults in the future have history, they can search their roots. Not all of these festivities will happen, where for television viewing purposes people are dragging, seeking their roots. It's very important. A similarly important is the National Register of Contractors and Goddess Parents. We also know too many dramatic stories from literature, history and cinema that this case of assumption and, above all, childbirth was an exception, a closed dark process, which led to other dramas, very important. Kids need a nest. They need warmth and love. The state is obliged to make this nest, whether it is natural - biological - whether it comes from childbirth or assumption - equal to one another's - that a child does not know the physical situation from which it emerges, that is, within the nest. Adoption, childbirth, but even more so assumption, requires excess and mind and heart. It is an example of generosity. And professional assumptions are an even more example of generosity. I would like to speak very much about this bill, because we all have experiential examples of children, adults or elderly people who have lived up to the foundation or childbirth in a way that has not allowed them to have a past, so their future and their presently being too limited. But I'll say one thing. Both childcare and assumption, but, above all, parentality, either biological or welfare of the state, requires one thing. It has to be proved. Even physical fertility must prove to be worthy of parenting. It's not a natural fact. Because I can babysit, I'm also, of course, a biological, better parent than anyone else can't give birth. This must go away from our horizon, so that we can move forward as a society one step further. The child is not a trophy of couples, adults, marriages or anything else. It's naturally not a trophy. The couple or the person, as I said before, has to prove that he can have this huge care, give a child warmth and above all love. The bill does it with all those surveillance mechanisms. I will not just avoid talking about Article 8, but in the very least time I have left I will try to do it for a reason. Yes, I too, like the Vice-President, Christodoulopoulou, who spoke very well before, to see in the channels a 'project on the taking up of gay couples'. Gossip, gossip, gossip! While the bill says that all citizens who meet the criteria of fertility - and parenthood is a very important thing - are also suitable for assumption and childbirth without exceptions, as required by our Constitution, this was limited to creating gossip and fighting with each other and with each other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But we are talking about a serious thing, and despite the fact that it started so, various people in here started throwing crowns for the sacred family, etc. It was a sacred family that Juda - "Greek Christians" - very nice families had torturers and were Greek Christian Orthodoxs. Many families were like this. Even those who stole cancer medicines very nice families have, as many others who have reached us in this bankruptcy. We must be careful, then, how we speak, especially in here. But I will say that it was an opportunity today and tomorrow to make another group of invisible people visible. I am proud that this government has made these people visible. Yes, homosexuals are a reality of society. Democracy has always been tested, it is not an all-out fact once. It is a lasting event with many incidents in which she is tested. I am glad that there have been a thousand two of them here, as have those who are indifferent that paedophilia is a homosexuality. But this is about people. Are they qualified to be contractors or are they not? This "appropriate" is defined by the law and not by each of us here with its ideals, with its superstitions and all of this. We must at least know one thing in this House: rights are not a matter of majority voting. A person has the right to something, the state is obliged. Different leaders, such as Erdogan and many others, are right to destroy human rights. They follow over 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u296	I'm finishing up, saying one thing. We have an excellent bill. This bill should have come much earlier than previous governments, and we should not now stay on one thing and for a new opening of democracy to pull out all this bile, while, as Mrs Christodoulopoulos said very well, we should look at why we have so many children in the foundations, how this will stop, why families are in such a need and not make such a show in here, surpluses, hypocrisy and really bad way to talk to voters rather than citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u297	My colleague, Ilias Panagiotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. You will all understand, the vast majority of Greek citizens, who are listening to us, those who you see, that for the government and its progressive officials you are foolish, you are amphetitive, you are unforgettable and you cannot understand the majesty of adopting children homosexuals. That is what they have been telling you for many hours and will continue to tell you today and tomorrow, no matter whether the vast majority of the Greek people are perverse to this. Once again, the hypocrisy of all kinds of false progressional thollouturiars, paid or unpaid rightholders is extinguished. All this so-called love for poor children, all your crocodile memorial tears are done in order to pass the shameful, immoral article 8, pressing on a truly serious issue, that of adoption and assumption, and to make, together with other laws that you have voted in earlier years, one more step in the degeneration of one of the sacred institutions, that of the family and parents. They are the orders, you see, of the greedy homosexual elite of the new order of things and you are the useful naives that make their dreams, and most of them with the unimmovable. It was heard by previous speakers that until first in the world medical community homosexuality was an anomaly and should be handled accordingly. We see that with this Article 8 you want children living, as you say, in institutions - which does not mean that everything is hell, because there are other cases where situations are worse - and which, as you say, are experiencing a problem by leading them to the assumption by homosexuals to lead them to total catastrophe in all respects. I will read something quickly because the examples of children are too much - it has not been heard by a previous speaker, others have been heard - adopted by homosexual parents and the problems they have experienced and experienced. I will quickly read to you a shocking letter to the United States Government sent by Canadi Doun Stefanovic, who grew up in a family that warns of the tragic consequences of such a decision. "This girl grew up in a family of gay fathers, who died in 1991 from AIDS and several years later decided to make public the tragic consequences of her rearing her family in her book "The impact of homosexual parents". With the letter writer and the book they contacted over fifty adult children who also grew up with homosexual parents and shared the same concerns. So they warn that the consequences of such a decision are orguelian in nature and extent. Amongst other things, he mentions very interesting things: “Children are not goods that can be reasonably separated from their natural generators and are traded between unrelated adults. Families of the same sex will often deny their grief and pretend that they do not lack a biological parent, are forced to speak positively because of the policy on homosexual households. However, when children lose any of their biological parents due to death, divorce, adoption or artificial fertilization technology, they experience a painful vacuum.” I'm presenting for the Minutes all the interesting follow-up that anyone who wants can look for. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have heard from a number of people here that pre-government over salt-card investigations, which say there is no problem at all. Of course, as you have heard from our special speaker here in Parliament, there are two major investigations: one was of the order of fifty thousand and not of the same size as some of the investigations carried out by the various comrades and of course always the unimportant one. You know, it's these investigations that are done to satisfy and serve each other and later each other, since they're in such a key position, to give him a degree, to give him a master's degree, then another to nominate him and all those mysteries. These are your salt-cards of sensations, which we hear you talk about children, about these poor things as you say, but at the same time you wanted to enter and invade our homeland millions of illegal immigrants and many children of illegal immigrants and have let them be on the Mars territory and to be prosecuted for five to ten euros. Take a walk from the Mars Field to see the situation, although some people can know it firsthand. As for the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which actually says that society is not yet ready to accept this matter, otherwise they would accept it and vote it too, it is probably more about the fact that there is Golden Dawn and gets their votes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. We also heard about the right to choose, but always a card. Wherever you want to remember the right to choose and where you want to remember the right to impose, apply, as is done abroad by the respective SYRIZAs, who have reached the point of banning children, parents, whether or not they are normal or not, to call themselves a "boy" if they are a boy, and be called a "girl" if they are a girl, until it is said to be eighteen years old and decide. Let the children reach eighteen and decide whether they want to be adopted by homosexual families or by normal families. We have heard about individual freedoms, we have heard about enlightenment, about a number of other situations, but all this at the expense of the rights of the child. How hypocrites you are to speak of rights on the one hand and say 'the right to choose and to absolute freedom' and on the other to be the ones who tomorrow - tomorrow you will go to support the jihadists and Islamists, who of course do not allow, not all of what you say, but even their women to take off the handkerchief and show more than the eye and the forehead, the forehead. Of course, you are the greatest hypocrites the voters and the third memorandum, which also kills the Greek citizens, makes the families miserable and sends the children to the foundations. You will remember this mother who was in Patras and sent her children to the prosecutor saying "I can't feed them. Take them to the institution." And you're telling us you're cut for it. Precise on pie and cheap on chickens! We have heard incredible lines, 'no child in unclaimed', 'Naturity does not prejudge, the child is not a gift of nature'. What gift is it? How's the kid? With a magic wand? That's what Mrs. Vaki said. The child is a gift of the god whom you spit in the face. We have heard the other incredible line that homosexuals can offer what heterosexual parents do. Shut up, man! How do you see that? Is that not what you say about those who have an opposite view? He said Mr. Dousinas would be persecuted abroad. That's who you are. The "square" in all the majesty. You spoke with detestable words about the Reverend Metropolitan of Aegialia Ambrosios, who is trying and conserving tens of institutions in his area. Go ask all the children there, orphans or not, what they feel and what they say about this Metropolitan. As for the Golden Dawn, it has made dozens, hundreds of food distributions and kinds of first need in various institutions, without the lights of publicity throughout Greece, not for votes. If you want, we challenge you to see what you and we have given. Fortunately, the vast majority of the Greek nation does not even share your ridiculous ethnic, anti-Christian, immoral bourgeoisie. By changing terminologies, as you have been doing for a long time with things, you do not change the essence of the matter. Whether it was called "Chinese", or now you have reached the "homos" and you will shortly say that this is the normal one and we are the abnormal ones, the essence of the thing doesn't change, no matter what you do. But Europe is changing, and Greece is changing and you kept saying it with horror.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Panayotus, finish up so that Mrs. Vlacho can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u300	That's right. I shall conclude, Mr President. The Golden Dawn will fight for Greece and orthodoxy. He will resist with all its powers and with the help of the one and all-powerful God, soon you will be a pitiful sad past. So, as soon as you can, live your dream, because most of you after the election will be nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u301	Mrs Salvation has the floor. She's the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for as long as the SYRIZA Government has been ruling the country, it has clearly made clear to everyone that its primary aim is the degradation of the three highest ideals, which, over time, survive in the soul of the Greeks: the patronage, the religion and the family. Whether in its overall policy, whether in its strategic choices, or in instruments such as what is to be voted on tomorrow, SYRIZA is trying to loyally implement its unethical, anti-orthodox and anti-Natural ideals, believing that it will in this way be atone against its hard-core party for the fact that it has turned into a persuasive instrument of the hardest capitalists and neoliberal politicians. The draft law therefore forms part of a series of legislations that SYRIZA seeks to devalue especially the institution of the family, degrading it and equilibriuming it with interpersonal relations, which are governed by perceptions of sick, immoral and completely incompatible with both the time-long values and ideals of the Greeks and the very natural order of things, with the normality and harmony of the laws governing natural law. The crimes against the traditional family, which has always been the fundamental cell of the Greek society, are multiple, drunken and have the form of legislation that has been directly or indirectly supported by all the political forces of the so-called "constitutional arch" in the name of a perverse and unnatural political correctness. Cohabitation agreement, legal recognition of homogeneous couples, equation of nature to abnormal through the introduction of gender identity change. War of ruthlessness against logic, nature itself, in order to convince us that we have to accept as a society their neo-liberal, ill perceptions in order not to be conservative, backward, and even extreme. When they saw that the vast majority of Greeks were stubbornly resisting the propaganda of political correctness and remained guardian of traditional values and ideals, rejecting all kinds of paranoid and unnatural ideals, then they went a step further. They targeted the new generation, attempting to degenerate young people. By means of the draft law, indirectly, covered, among many hypocritical statements, majestics and great words, they legislate on the possibility that homosexual couples may also become fosterers of minors, thereby opening up the way to allow the adoption of minors respectively in the near future. They ignore children's rights, jeopardise the smooth development of their mentality and personality, in order to promote and support their ideas. They leave minor children herds in the hands of individuals who have acquired legal status as a couple simply because they have chosen to be related to the same sex. That's what this is about. Let us put hypocrisy aside, and let us at last dare to say truths, whether or not some people like it. Obviously, everyone has the absolute right to determine their own sexual behavior, even if she has specificities and is not normal. It has no right, however, to try to impose as a model for other human beings its own than natural preferences, and above all it has no right to raise a child, to form a pure child's soul based on his own repellents. In this crime against Greek youth, against the soul of our people, a perpetrator and guilty, of course, is not only SYRIZA. They are also aware that the ANELs, who make the 'black eyes' in order not to lose the chair of power. But also the New Democracy, which is supposed to vote against, what does it say to us? That their objection is not that by taking children from homosexuals the institution of the Greek traditional family, as we have all experienced it in our homes, with our parents and with our children, nor that they are violated by the contested provision of basic human rights for minors. The problem with New Democracy is that, as a society, we are unprepared and immature to accept something different, which in this case is trying to impose on minor children, without any respect for their right to grow up in a normal family. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking not only in the capacity of parliamentarians, but above all as a mother, as a woman and a grandmother, I personally commit to doing everything through the ranks of the Greek nationalist movement so that the Greek society never reaches the verdict of being ready to accept this attempted crime against innocent children's souls. I am convinced that the Golden Dawn and our Chief Nicholas Michaloliakos will successfully stand once again guardians and defenders of the triplet that expresses all our existence: Homeland, religion, family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Vlacho. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-08-S1-commons.u304	With the agreement of the House at 22.40 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 9 May, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions".
