ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 7-3-2018, PRACLEY PRACTICAL PRACTICE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PLAC Bureau on Wednesday, 7 March 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: “Convention on the operation of the Greek Pasteur Institute and other provisions”.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Tochiceio Municipal School of Eklis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 20 December 2017 and Thursday 21 December 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u2	The minutes of Wednesday 20 December 2017 and Thursday 21 December 2017 were therefore validated. We also have some permissions for absence: MEP Kastorias Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence from 15 March to 20 March 2018 to go to Russia, following the invitation of the international organisation ‘European Council on Democracy and Human Rights’. The travel and subsistence costs will be borne privately. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary 2nd Athens Mr.Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis seeks permission to leave abroad for Thursday 8th March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP I'Athens Mr Marios Georgiadis seeks permission from 15 March to 16 March 2018 and from 26 March to 28 March 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday, 9 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1259/6-3-2018, a topical question by Piraeus II, the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelia (Evangeliki) Karakotas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the restoration of the Area of Uncontrolled Waste Disposal (C.E.D.) Whisper. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Sustainableity of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestia". 3. The 1184/28-2-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Peloponnese saturated power grid”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development on "Financing the water supply networks of Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 12662/6-3-2018 of the current question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Stop running the AIA of Amynteios - PPC Friends in the Prefecture of Florinas”. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, dated 1230/5-32018, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc" is urgent. 4. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The implementation of a natural gas network in the Peloponnese". 5. The Question No 1081/13-2-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a Hazardous Waste Landscaping Area in Megalopolis. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1983/11-12-2017 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "What procedure took place with the “Doctors of the World” of caring for refugees from the hosting centre in BIP Drama?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: “An unjustified delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office.” Before we begin, I would like to say a few words about today's Women's Day, which is celebrated worldwide on 8 March every year. I would very briefly like to mention the following: I believe that as a Greek Parliament we should be particularly pleased that for the first time we honour Women's Day in practice. With a special symbolism, since 9.30 minutes, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention against Women's Violence and Racial Violence has been discussed in the Senate. At the same time, since March 6th, the Minister of Interior's bill on women's effective equality against racial violence has been upheld in Transparency since the day before yesterday. I would ask all Members to participate in the dialogue that will take place on this bill. I also wanted to say that a chess match has been launched in the House, since the Greek Parliament's honour to the champions of the Federation of Greek Skistries was preceded. Already there is an original struggle with MPs and other officials and with people who wanted to participate in this game. This option was not random. I think sport, game, chess art is a particularly spiritual game that needs flexibility, intelligence, tactics and strategy. So far these are considered the privileges of men. Thus a military game of equal powers conducted on paper, i.e. on a chess board, proves, like many others, that nothing is the privilege of men, but that women claim and distinguish themselves in all areas. So let us stay with this satisfaction that today has been particularly honoured by the House and we hope that the legislation to be voted on will improve the lives of women in the future and will be the stepping stone in order to claim their rights and women's emancipation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-three Members of the Group for the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination in accordance with Rule 86(2). 3 of the Constitution, 153 pp. of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 5 of Law No.3126/2003: "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, for the possible execution of the offence of infidelity relating to the service, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 256 c. Page 124 bb of the Criminal Code in conjunction with Article 1(1) of Law 1608/1950 "To increase the sentences of the public abused" as they apply, by Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Andreas Xanthos and Paulos Paulakis, according to the proposal. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure, following the conclusion of the debate, Parliament shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The vote will take place at one reading, it will be self-evident for each person and will take place on three separate votes. Today's debate will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. With regard to the other procedural procedures, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, the debate will begin with a first cycle of nine speakers, one of each Parliamentary Group and one Independent MEP, with speaking time for every ten minutes, without a right of denial. He will first take the floor as a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which has tabled the proposal. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be laid down in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Staff Response will be up to twenty minutes and the Presidents of the other six parliamentary groups will be up to 15 minutes. The ministers will talk for ten minutes. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e., if the President of the Parliament has spoken before him, they will speak for six minutes. Under Rule 155(6) of the Rules of Procedure, during the debate on the proposal for prosecution, Parliament may allow the motion to appear before the person against whom the proposal is directed in order to hear his or her views. In any event, this person shall have the right to submit to the House a memorandum entered in the Minutes. The persons against whom the proposal is directed will speak for twenty minutes and, if necessary, there will be a maximum tolerance of three or a maximum of five minutes. They will therefore appear before the House in order to hear their views, the following: first, Kurublis Panagiotis, second, Blonde Andreas, third Paul. The speech of the above persons will begin from the end of the speeches of the first cycle and will be completed before the beginning of the speech of the first political leader. Within this year, i.e. after the end of the speech of the speakers in the first cycle and before the speech of the first political leader, the Parliamentary representatives and the three persons against whom the proposal is directed will speak. In the midst of the talks of the political leaders, two ministers will speak. Under Rule 155(6) of the Rules of Procedure, Members will not vote on the proposal to prosecute them. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members or members of the government who are on a mission of this House or the government abroad will vote by letter, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be handed over to the Bureau in sealed files. This folder will be enclosed in a larger folder, also closed, which will indicate the number of the boxes to be used. The second file will be enclosed again in a larger third file, also closed, which will also list the name of the Member or the member of the government who will vote by letter. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The lists will be delivered by accredited colleagues from Members or members of the Government who are to vote under Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. At the end of the debate, a secret ballot as provided for in Rules 73 and 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure will be followed. Finally, we propose that the debate be closed by 10 p.m. and then that the secret vote on the proposal be followed. Does the House accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u7	The proposal was accepted unanimously. Therefore, I have the honour to announce to you the nine speakers that Parliamentary Groups and Independent Members have indicated: firstly, Mr Tasula Konstantinos from New Democracy; secondly, Mr Lapa Spyridon from the Radical Left Coalition; thirdly, Mr Papatheodoros Theodoros from the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR; fourthly, Mr Karakostas Evangelos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn; fifthly from the Communist Party of Greece; thirdly from the Communist Party of Greece; fourthly, Mr Lasariotis Georgios, from the Independent Greeks; and fourthly from the Parliamentary Mr Georgios Marios from the Communist Party of Greece; thirdly from the Communist Party of Greece; and Mr. Mr Tassoulos Konstantinos has the floor for ten minutes. I would urge that the time be respected so that what has been done at the previous sitting, at 5.30 minutes in the morning, is not repeated. Here you go, Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, at a recent plenary session, Prime Minister Tsipras, whether or not I was self-sufficient, said that "we are of different material". It is an interesting point of view, but it is subject to the penalty of the trial. It is not subject to the complicity of the wording, but to the penalty of the trial. The country needs politicians to be of other material, what Plato in "Citizens" defines as the golden genus. I don't suppose that's what Mr. Tsipras meant. But the other material, the other attitude, the other behavior proves to be daily in the abundance of political practice and political confrontations. If, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, you are of other material, you will even have to vote as a sample of the proposal to set up a preliminary committee, as a sample, not that you share the view or the alleged category, but as a sign of elementary emotiveness, which has been demonstrated in the past by New Democracy in repeated cases, and you have every right to reject them, they have not prevented us from voting positively for formations of examination or preliminary committees. The other material includes emotiveness. And in the recent dictionary of the Academy of Athens, the word "frightness" is synonymous with the honorable. So all this must be proved. Today the New Democracy discusses and brings before you, before people who aspire and claim to be of other material, a proposal to set up a preliminary committee for the Ministers, Mr. Kurublis, Mr. Blonde and Mr Polakis, for the alleged offences of infidelity, committed in the grim cases of the 1950 law concerning the abusers of the public. Public abusers. Infidelity. Offenses. Increasing the pharmaceutical expenditure in 2015 by omission. In 2015, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. Xanthos did not take care, Health Ministers, to sign price decisions, which had been decided by law in 2013 to reduce pharmaceutical expenditure. This omission - which was not corrected by the signing of this decision in December because this decision was implemented in 2016 - cost an increase in drug expenditure, cost public expenditure. The ministers referred to in our proposal, and in particular Mr Kourublis, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, are also being treated on the basis of a document which is related to the prosecution of corruption in the case-file and accuses them anonymously, indeed, but accuses them, of specific circumventions of the Law on price regulation of medicinal products, which in 2016 led to damage of at least 40 million to the increase of medicinal products in the public fund and at least 100 million to the use of private medicinal products. It is also alleged that offences aimed at and reaching an increase in the cost of medicine have been committed because, with a circular signed by Mr Kourublis specifically, he replaced the requirement to prescribe the active substance and returned to the prescription regime the basis of the trade name of the medicinal product. These, allegedly, relate to the offence of infidelity, a burden - I repeat - on the facts of the misappropriation of the public authorities, because of the amount of damage allegedly suffered by the State, which exceeds EUR 150,000. Ladies and gentlemen, when Law 4213 was passed, which made it compulsory for the State to do twice a year invoking medicinal products to reduce their costs, it was accompanied by a report which said that these provisions improve the system of pricing and compensation for medicinal products with a view to further rationalising and reducing the costs of medicinal products. And the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which accompanys these legislative initiatives, concludes that "From the proposed regulations, and in particular from those relating to the re-setting of the prices of medicinal products, prototypes and generic amounts, annual savings are made of the budgets of the social security institutions, of the EEA and of the nursing establishments - legal persons governed by public law subsidised by the State budget. Such savings shall be estimated at around EUR 480 million.’; Failure to take a decision for 2015, in essence, to have a reduction in the price of medicines, as was the case at the first moment that was implemented by Law 4213, brought this increase in pharmaceutical expenditure without being necessary, illegally. That's why the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, when he sends the file to the House on 5-2-2018, you know what file the person transmitted one day after the rally on the issue of Macedonia - asks for the invoicing of medicinal products that resulted in an increase in annual pharmaceutical expenditure for 2015. Where are we right now? We are at the moment in the claim that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, Mr. Tsipras' call for "all in light", so far it has been shown that it is only, "as much mud as you can in our political opponents". You have not dared to prove the 'all in light' and the other material, which you allegedly are, when we asked for a committee of inquiry on Mr. Kammenos, on his involvement in the case of the ship 'NOOR-1'. You have not dared and agreed to be a committee to consider the imposition of capital control and the third memorandum, which capital control and the first months of 2015 have caused shocking damage to the national economy and the Greek people. The latest estimates raise this damage to at least 200 billion. You, who are of other material, have discounted that the examination we have asked for and which we have for the time being retained because of the tension on the issue with Turkey - the examination, that is, Mr Kammenos's involvement in the sale of war material in Saudi Arabia - will not be accepted. At the same time, we, who are not of any other material, voted unanimously on all the pre-examinations and all the examinations you have brought to these terms. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We voted for Papantoniou. We have voted on the loans of parties and the media. We voted for the health review and you wanted to stop, you who are of other material, in 2014, the investigation. We voted in favour of the preliminary drafting for two former Prime Ministers and eight former ministers, which, in essence, is escalating itself in the very circumvention of Parliament's decision and in a work on the illegitimate haven of limitations, which, in fact, is a worse alternative than condemnation. And knowing that very well, invoke Article 86 by circumventing the law and the procedures of the preliminary, so that your opponents will stay not with the praise of revelation of the service we believe in, but with the death of the ill-famous haven of limitation. All these behaviours, all this comparison of behaviour, all this timing gives the right today to every observer of public affairs to say that SYRIZA is making use of everything - from Article 86 of the Constitution to serious foreign policy issues - so that it can impose on a country that cannot raise a head after real bankruptcy, a micrograph and - why not? - a total imitation of what was worse in the past. And in the past, as you know, there weren't only worse. There were also roots, there were improvements in the life of the Greeks. There were worse, which prevailed and brought the country's real bankruptcy. This is what you imitate today and use as shield mud and slander, lack of eloquence, protecting your own people, to protect and hide behind all this. What do you want to hide? The fact that the economy is dragging around? Does the fact that the lymphatic, anemic growth confirmed make the country at least an exception to growth within Europe's countries?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Tasula, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u10	Do you want to hide the construction of the party state and favor to relatives? None of this will hide. And today you have a last chance in this matter to prove if you do have elementary emotiveness. I conclude with the following: A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 February, the MEP elected by the flag of SYRIZA, Mr Chrysanos, and a member of the drafting committee of the SYRIZA's proposal for the constitutional revision, wrote an article in 'BIMA'. This article has been written on the basis of your proposal for the preliminary drafting of the two former Prime Ministers and the eight former Ministers. "It is quite obvious that Members of the ruling party who sign up to the proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee, express as politically self-evident that Article 86 of the Constitution must be reviewed by the next constitutional revision." "If that is the case, then it comes up." colleagues who are of other material, "...the following question: why in the previous parliamentary term - January - August 2015 - did this party not table a proposal for a revision of Article 86? If he had done so and the proposal had been voted for, then this House would have been revised and this article could have changed before the end of 2015, so we would have been discussing today on a completely different basis. It seems that from words to actions there is some distance. Mr. Chrysanos accounts for the SYRIZA that when he calls Article 86 indignant, he does not mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Tasoula, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u12	In essence, SYRIZA, with its so far attitude, uses Article 86 to throw mud into his opponents. The New Democracy is tabling this proposal, exhausting the institutional potential. You are exploiting and destroying the institutional potential. And since ethos is synonymous with patronage, there is today, in the next twelve hours, a margin for SYRIZA colleagues who are claiming to be of other material, to prove they have an esteem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u13	We didn't start well with keeping time. I don't know what's going to happen next. Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally learned today that the New Democracy party is the party of emotiveness, fairness, democratic sensitivity and has absolutely no responsibility for what is wrong in that country. The government of SYRIZA is responsible for everything and all the bad things are happening since January 2015. Let's face it and see. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that sometimes reality is brutally avenged both lies and hypocrisy. A few days ago, your Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, said here, from this Step of the House, that "he was never the moral advantage of the Left". While arguing about the lack of a moral advantage on the Left, the new documentary and the new news from Germany for your moral disadvantage came at the same time. It's about subway hatred and you know it! You can't say here that a new make is coming. Because in the "conspiracy" you cannot pass your account that Papaggiopoulou, Tsipras and Toulopakis are a conspiracy nucleus and make, because you do not dare say that it can be a construction, with Merkel's archbishop. Swallow that, too. In fact, for this new scandal, the following was written in the press: "In the public prosecutors Greece is sighing. Corruption, hatred, easy enrichment, dispersal of public money, colleges with economic interests." That's all, Mr. Tasouula. You didn't say a word. The speaker fully agrees with one comment from yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister. "The passage into the future does not mean just looking forward. It requires that you settle in collective memory and outstanding accounts, open accounts with the past." This must also be done. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because it is not possible for a country to be dived into scandals, misery, remorse, despair, at the same time want to be a normal, prosperous state that looks ahead and wants to come out of the economic deadlock. There is no economic advance and prosperity as the country is soaked in scandals and remultaneously. If we do not harness the phenomenon of corruption, which, as Mr Venizelos said to a prologue, in the dilemma of Demopoulou 'Privacy', the body of society and the economy is eaten as a sarcasm, we will never be able to stand up to dignity on our feet. And I fully agree with Mr Venizelos, at least in this respect. I now heard Mr Tasouula and reminded me of what we read about Plato's cave, where some prisoners in a cave only saw and observed - he says - it was some bodies, not the same, but their shadows. Thus, they continued to live until their death in a shadowy, i.e. virtual, reality. That's your reality. None of what we're saying to you can't see and you still have the same account, the same argument, and be dived at the same dead ends. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u15	That is not the case in the 'Citizens'. You've confused it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u16	Well, Mr. Dendia, you come and tell us right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u17	Don't talk about something if you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u18	Come and tell us right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Dendia, don't start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u20	Let us now go to the proposal you have put forward. By a preamble we state and consider that your proposal is a diversion move, to come out of the pile of scandals that come out every day on the surface and on the news. It was written yesterday in your friendly press, in one of the flagships of the "Marinakis" group: "Those who are allegedly involved and their parties embraced the lifesaving of the hood to float into the communication daily life." But this day-to-day life, the damned, doesn't leave you alone, as we're going to develop below. And he meant the new scandals that came and come all the time. I therefore have your proposal, ladies and gentlemen. It begins with a reference - it is above, as a front - that it is imported in accordance with Articles 86(3) and 5 of Law 3126/2013, 'for a matter of responsibility of Ministers'. Introductory terms, we are once again telling you that we, the MPs and the SYRIZA party - I think the ANELs - have been placed for many years now, decades, that our policy and our constitutional position are that these provisions are well-founded, that they give rise to the legitimate popular feeling. Do you know why? Because they're of a dual character. A privileged, in favour of the Ministers and a procedural, not material, framework of law. And it is privileged because it is only this excellent competence in favour of the speedy elimination of blame for the ministers and of procedure, precisely because it gives this possibility, within two sessions, to write off offences which would be characterised as heinous crimes and felonies. And this is also the case with a slight limitation, and this is what gives rise to the legitimate popular feeling. So we call it in the first place. These provisions were chosen from the old political system, precisely so that crimes and serious crimes are never revealed. So you may have an exceptional nature to deal with from criminal justice with bodies and structures from Parliament, not from the common justice in which anyone runs, all common citizens. Whether they are inadvertent to protection, or they are subject to giving a reason for criminal offences and omissions. So the same must apply to politicians and be in it vertical and irrevocable. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on this point. Mr. Tasoulas said something, that we do not stress it on the constitutional review. Since the first day that this government has been elected, there is no speech by the Prime Minister at days, two days, conferences or here in the House, which does not stress at the outset and, at the outset, every speech he has made, that for us the first, the torch of light, the top of the spear of the constitutional review, is the abolition of these shameful provisions, which, as I said, create the common sense of law. Because it is an excellent competence that is not fair, it is not iso-state, it is not equitable. Why should it not be the case for ministers and political persons that it is the case for common mortals and common citizens? Why should the ministers and the political groups have an exceptionally privileged law? So they can hide their crimes? That is what society feels, and that is what we all owe an answer to. And give it to me. Now, looking at your proposal - of course time is inconsistent - I wonder why. Did you see any offences you say that Mr. Kurublis was alleged to have been dropped? Didn't two sessions take place from October 2015 until today? Aren't they falsified? What are we talking about? Now on the substance, the Minister himself will give an answer. However, because I see in the eyes of legal persons, serious people from the New Democracy party, are the offences committed from 1 January 2015, from January 2015 to September 2015 that were Minister Kourublis? Did two sessions or no? Say it so the Greek people can hear it. And can I also tell you something about what Mr Tasoulas said that we were allegedly invoking in 1986 to hide us - who? We are! - from what we have been denounced for decades that it is an excellent and privileged institutional framework only for the ministers. I wish it could be abolished tomorrow morning and Article 86 and Article 5, which allegedly stipulates the responsibility of the Ministers, and in fact it is about the irresponsible and irresponsibleness of the ministers and the political groups. This is the core of legal provisions and it is your political child, the 2001 amendment. Your political child is these choices. And that's why you say something. So, because the core - I would say, the tip of the spear - of your proposal is what happened from January 2015 until September 2015, it has been banned. So, from a legal point of view, leave it to everything. Mr Tassoulos here a little while ago, the rapporteur of the party who wants to support the proposal you bring did not once cast the name of another minister, Mr Xanthos, Mr Polakis, and what offences he allegedly bears. He didn't even say a moment. He remained in office in January 2015 until September 2015. You'll see these. Let's go to the second chapter of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK - why do I see Mr Loverdo now - because we are talking about criminal liability of ministers, we can turn to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, yes or no? Without any contraction, I say yes. So let's go to Article 43(4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. What's he saying? ‘Repeal or reference submitted in any way anonymously or by a non-existent person shall be filed’. Listen to the phrase 'directly in the file'. It's the rule. Is there an exception? There is. Who? When? If, in the Prosecutor's order, the prosecutor analyses and explains particular reasons why the case should not be filed. Are there any such exceptional reasons in the prosecutor's introductory document in order to invoke, justify and claim that exceptional reasons do not require that it be filed? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u21	That's when it's preliminary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u22	You understand that very well, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u24	We are therefore talking about Article 43(4).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u25	The committee will say that to make it preliminary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u26	I mention this, Mr Athanasios, because when Members reach the poll, they must understand and understand that this is a report that wants to investigate criminal responsibilities. I have raised it from the outset as a question, as a reflection. Are we going to apply, bear in mind, are we lawyers, at least, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure? That's what the Code of Criminal Procedure says. For any action or reference which may have a criminal or criminal dimension, the relevant provision shall apply. I'm looking at Mr. Loverdo now and I'm telling him. If anything different happens, he'll come and tell us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So two things are here extremely important and important. Firstly, it must be immediately filed - I stress the word 'directly' - and secondly, there are no exceptional reasons in the Prosecutor's letter for which it should not be filed. So I'm waiting for their answers. Also, your proposal is based on an anonymous complaint. Do you know how this anonymous complaint begins, the anonymous editor? Listen: "In the monstrous scandal of "NOVARTIS", which shocks Greece...". That's what it says in the document on which you're relying. Do you want to stay on this? Is that why the huge scandal, which is stirring up the country, does Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Samaras agree? To sign the proposal - you will tell me - they agree. Here hypocrisy has no limits, no size, it's infinite. Who agrees that this is a scandal and, indeed, a scandal that shocks Greece? Mr Samaras, who not only sued the witnesses, has not only sued the prosecutors and judges, has also sued the Prime Minister himself because they say it is scandalous. Solve these contradictions, these ambiguities - your arguments are blurred here - and tell us what you actually want, what you believe. Is it a scandal or isn't it? Does it shock Greece or not? Do we have to investigate it or not? In fact, Mr Tasoulas said here: 'We voted for all the exams and for all the pre-reviews'. It did not dry the ink in Parliament's decision last week. You didn't vote. And why didn't you vote? Because you did not have confidence in the conscience and free will of your Members. You were afraid of the result of the poll. You've been shaking it. And you chose not to vote. Congratulations! I shall conclude, Madam President, on a point of order. Mr. Tasoulas said that the pre-review is evolving into a hood and a script that SYRIZA is melting on. I mean something for the Greek people to hear. Any offence, where two sessions have taken place between the crime and the debate and remains in a committee - to discuss it, in other words, a Chamber of Members of Parliament - has gone to the vote. Therefore, any offence that the pre-examination judges that it was done in the performance of the duties, that is to say it is to be deleted. This is the aim of the political parties, which had another attitude before, in the scandal with Mr Papantoniou. They're seeking it now. Well, that's not gonna happen. We will explore everything we need to investigate and make sure the case-file goes to regular justice as soon as possible. Do you know why? Because only there is no limitation, only there is investigation and only there is a punishment for the guilty. And if you want to avoid it, you won't be able to. As for the moral advantage you are saying, however much you are fighting, this country has a huge history - I would say institutional - of not days, not years, not centuries, but millenniums. And such a historical memory will never be able, ladies and gentlemen, to erase it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u27	The next speaker is Mr Papatheodorou from the Democratic Assent. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the setting-up of a Special Parliamentary Committee for preliminary examination of the possible offences in 2015 by the Ministers for Health of Kurublis and Xanthos on the non-invoicing of medicines, which resulted in an increase in the pharmaceutical expenditure, for us, starts and is based on the three reports by the Prosecutors of Corruption, made by Mr. Andreas Loverdos, Vasilis Kegeroglou and Eve Christophilopoulou on 21-2-2017, 8-307, 13-4-2017. These reports, while having to be directly associated with related judicial investigations and being sent to the House without delay, reached an unjustified delay, almost a year later, in the context of the case-file for the NOVARTIS scandal. That's what we'll talk about. Why? Because in these three reports there were concrete elements which can be supported today, not political responsibility, as the Prime Minister came to tell us last time, but criminal responsibility. The Democratic Reconciliation, which does not have the required number of Members to ask, to table a proposal for a preliminary committee, means to insist on its debate 'no, because the majority did not want to do so last time'. So at today's meeting we will go to see these elements, which lead us to show the responsibilities of the ministers of that period for offending and not, Mr President, and above all to denounce the government's 'good and good interests' approach, our own covert, for the rest we can talk about the other people, even if they have been banned and also covered by ministers of the period 2015, with only the initials of their name, i.e. P.C., without any description of the offence. Let's see, then, what has happened and what is the reality, because it will link responsibility to faces: Since February 21, 2017, the three Members of the Democratic Association sent to the Prosecutor of Corruption Mr. Ryku comparative data on the pricing of medicinal products, especially those relating to "NOVARTIS" for the period 2009-2016. They also wanted to underline the existence of criminal responsibilities in accordance with Article 15 of the Criminal Code, for Mr Kurublis and Mr Xanthos, for the non-invoicing of medicinal products for a whole year, in 2015, where the invoicing ended on 14 December 2015. In 2015 and 2016, the pharmaceutical cost of the insurance system increased compared to previous years and closed to 2,6 billion and 2,96 billion respectively. On the other hand, he had experienced a significant reduction in the period 2009-2014, in particular by legislative intervention, in accordance with Article 11 of Law No 4052/2012, by Law No 3918/2011, which introduced clawback and rebate over the Loverto Ministry, namely the closed budget of the insurance system, beyond which the costs were not covered, as well as a form of increased taxation on the receipts of pharmaceutical companies, i.e. rebate. In addition, insurance pharmaceutical costs decreased significantly in the period 2010-2014 by extending the reduction from 2010 to 2012, and suddenly increased in 2015 and 2016. These are the elements that I submit, and show for 2015 an increase in drug expenditure per month, to see that only in the first half of the year we had 150 million more than in the previous year. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In March 2012, under Law 4052, the necessary annual invoices increased, i.e. compulsory invoices. There had to be up to four invoices per year. In 2013, under the Ministry of Agriculture, these were provided for in two compulsory invoices. This invoicing requirement, because that is why we are talking, twice a year, is still valid until now. Today, the Minister for Health must implement them. However, with the takeover by SYRIZA in 2015 - and here is the political given - and while the law provided for two invoices a year, it was only one and this one when? On 14 December 2015, at the end of the year. Therefore, the whole of 2015 medicinal products were not revalued downwards, so they maintained prices. All this year, the prices of medicinal products with the 2014 prices remained, while there was a legitimate obligation on the Minister to re-evaluate downwards. Do you know what it is and what immediate effect it has? Less revenues for the state, greater burden for the citizen and, of course, more money for the multinational pharmaceutical companies, all those operating in Greece. This illegal practice - because when the law obliges, omission is illegal - as far as the pricing of medicinal products is concerned, and in particular as regards the pricing of the products of NOVARTIS, but also of the other companies, it has had negative consequences for the citizens, it has caused, as I said, damage to the Greek State and it has brought greater profits to the pharmaceutical companies. And because it has been heard in this Chamber that so - allegedly - there has been a revaluation, of course, of the mere remodelling, reforming of VAT on medicinal products in 2015 is not a revaluation. That's not an invaluation. The evaluation is in each drug, depending on its active substance and the time on the market, to reduce the price during the year. Therefore, the conclusion is simple: The non-invoicing for the year 2015 is the one that haunts and personalises the execution of offences by the then Ministers of Health Mr. Kurubli and Mr. Xanthos, who had the special legal obligation under Article 15 of the Criminal Code to reduce prices. It is also true that since 2015 the relevant tariff has increased. There has been an increase in prices in several original medicinal products of all companies and NOVARTIS, because we discussed it. In particular, after taking up his duties, Mr. Xanthos has not only omitted the direct issue of a pharmaceutical invoicing document - Mr. Kourublis has publicly stated that he had prepared it - but this direct invoicing had been unlawfully delayed by the predecessor of Mr. Kourublis. It has also been delayed three months, from September to December, to cause the pharmacy expenditure to fall and has led to a reduction in public revenue, a reduction in sales and an increase in profits for pharmaceutical industries. Ladies and gentlemen, this practice is neither due to the obstacles posed by the troika during the disastrous period of negotiation by the SYRIZA - ANEL 2015 nor to the negligence of the ministers. It was a conscientious political choice with criminal consequences and benefiting the pharmaceutical industries. It was the opposite policy than the PASOK government followed from 2009 to 2012 and the PASOK-New Democracy government from 2012 to 2014. The cumulative reduction in public pharmaceutical expenditure for 2009-2012 was over EUR 2.5 billion and at the same time there were also EUR 773 million returns from clawback and rebate. However, when all governments, however, from 2009 to 2014, reduced the pharmaceutical expenditure, which had previously been derailed by the Government of New Democracy 2004-2009 Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Xanthos denounced the reductions in drug expenditure. Mr. Tsipras asked the Minister of State, Mr. Kitta, for the immediate payment of the debts to the pharmaceutical companies, supposedly, so that there would be no shortages of medicines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Show your tolerance for a very short time yet, Madam President. It was also Mr. Tsipras who, in an interview with him in 2013, recognised the reduction of the insurance policy, but at the same time stated that he was not concerned with the reduction of public expenditure, but only with the private participation of citizens and the cheap drug with zero or minimum participation of the world. It was also Mr. Blonde who was with the pharmacists and doctors against the reductions in drug spending. On 28-11-2014, he was talking about health tragedy and functionally insecure citizens due to a decrease in the EEA State grant of EUR 107 million in the 2015 budget. And as all this happened, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. Xanthos forgot for a whole year to issue the drug price card, perhaps to balance previous cuts and losses for pharmaceutical companies. Finally, it was committed and acted. That's what it was all about. This was the political choice and conscious practice that gives rise to criminal responsibilities today for the persons mentioned. That was not what the government wanted, the majority did not want us to discuss, ladies and gentlemen, in the preliminary to 'NOVARTIS'. Also, because these are objective facts - because that is how they happened - ultimately what we ask you to do is to refer today's file to the preliminary work on "NOVARTIS", to see everything from the beginning. Let us see the whole period for the medicine, the whole period for everyone's responsibilities, depending on the individualisation of these responsibilities, and depending on the indictment and documentation of the offences, whether they have been filed or not, because in order to go to the limitation, we should first link offences to persons, to see what responsibilities they have. I imagine that it is also of interest to the government majority to shine the truth and not to be veiled with procedural manipulations of competence, limitations and other paralysing excuses. The preliminary committee that started must reach the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Papatheodorou, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u30	It is my last sentence, Mr President. The preliminary committee that started must reach the end by calling the witnesses, all the persons mentioned and thorough investigation of the evidence. If you do not do so, the people will understand that you have set up a mud industry, that your opponents have been penetrated and your opponents have been covered and you are awkwardly looking to close down like the work of the committee. We will not allow that. We'll be up against these methods. That is why, as we did last time, we are positive about setting up a Preliminary Committee. Bring everything to talk about to get the truth out of the light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor John Kapodistrias", which is organizing the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from Nea Peramos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Evangelos Karakostas has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u32	Today's performance - because, to be honest and for reasons which I will explain below, this is a performance - in nothing different from similar performances which have been set up several times in the forty-four years of post-government political history, representations which take the splendid title 'Recommendation of Special Parliamentary Committees' for various scandals and which result in the same result: in the adoption of different conclusions from each party and in the joint finding that the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, unfortunately, does not allow us to prosecute the political individuals involved, because their responsibilities have been omitted. Characteristics of this time-confidential deception of the Greek people by the regime of clipping are the undeniable elements that accompany the so-called committees of inquiry or pre-examination, which have taken place in the past. These are specific committees which are, in essence, the most difficult way of washing up the corruption policy. For this reason, I am truly quoting a brief but extremely historical backdrop of the famous examinations of the post-government period. Since 1974 more than fifteen committees of inquiry have been set up. Of these, only two have resulted in a petition and trial: the Koskotta case and the Athanasopoulos case of Yugoslav corn. In three other cases, Constantine Mitsotakis was referred to the special court for the intercept case and the ministers of Paleokrassas and Andrianopoulos were referred to the sale of the SGET. The number of other major committees of inquiry left the guilty and those involved in the creation of national scandals, which undermined both the prestige of the country and of course its economy. For example, in 1986, for the Cyprus conclusion to remain buried. 1987 for phone intercepts, Tobra. In 1989 for supplies of equipment. The same year the Committee of Inquiry into the "market of the century" in armaments. In 1991 the Committee of Inquiry into the supplies of petroleum products. In 1992 for the sale of Olympic aircraft. In 1996, an exam for the Florisbes Casino. In 1999 for the Ocalan case and in 2004 for armaments, with a finding that was filed. In 2005, an examination of the equipment and 2010 an exam on ‘SIEMENS’. And we arrive in 2015 with SYRIZA and ANEL to pre-election the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the memorials and post-elections to vote two Memorandums. Also an examination of the loans of the media and parties, an examination revealing the dispersion of public money by parties and media owners, without, of course, any punishment. The following conclusion is drawn from the above: The only concern of the current rulings who have made the establishment of these special parliamentary committees has been the mediation and only exploitation of real scandals, while in the field of effective performance of responsibilities it has always been a full cover-up of the responsibilities of politicians and non-persons who have participated in the confiscation of public money and the plundering of the country. The Tsohazopoulou case remains unique and does nothing but confirm the rule. When the political system wants to defend, then finds the most opportune scapegoat and loads it with all its sins. In this way, many other politicians and non-persons, with the same or more responsibilities, continue their parasitic and national, socially and economically destructive work. We remind you, for example, of what Mr Venizelos said in the relevant PASOK conclusion in the Tsohatzopoulos exam, in order for the Greek people to understand the extent of the political fraud that the political system methodically organizes with the alleged examinations. He said: "There is no evidence of a possible criminal offence by Mr. Tsohatzopoulos and Mr Papantoniou, who have been insulted for months and have been unfairly broken up." On 25 February 2005, in the plenary session of Parliament, when the conclusion of the examination was put forward, the same political person said: "This case started as a huge political and possibly criminal scandal, and today this case has been evaporated". And he concluded: "The New Democracy tells us that there is a suspected money trafficking with supposedly recipients, who may also be political. There is nothing at all". At that time, the Members of the New Democracy did not applaud Mr Venizelos. But they're smuggling him today. Our position, unlike those of the other parties, was and is stable over time. All the scandals of post-mortemism, regardless of political colour and period, must come in the light of publicity and indeed those of them which have not already been omitted by the obsolete law on the responsibility of Ministers, should be tried in regular justice, where all the felonies are tried, where the limitations are twenty-year-old and not pretext. And, of course, not all of this has been mentioned in order to find ourselves as Golden Dawn, a pretext for voting against the current New Democracy proposal. But the support for a proposal to refer policies to justice is an empty letter when it is made for political propaganda and marketing and not for substantive reasons. Marketing of the worst, most disgraceful form is the fact that Greece was, for example, the only country that in the 'SIEMENS' multinational scandal did not ask for and received no compensation for the crimes committed by the German company against the Greek State when they were compensated even countries like Zimbabwe. Greece is the only country that does not move the criminal proceedings of the production of political law against the criminal courts and which does not file complaints against those who are harming the public, i.e. against those foreign companies that are illegal and their partners in Greece. In this case, it is surprising that the legal lighters of the New Democracy, who wrote the proposal we are discussing, refer inevitably to 'EUR 40 million in damage to the public and EUR 100 million in damage to the insurance funds' from the 2015 tariff, without even supporting these figures in a sworn accountant's report, but to speculation arising from an anonymous complaint. What Golden Dawn proposes, which is useful and essential in the case, as was the case with the finding made in the Papantoniou case and which the government majority has today copied and applied, is that the proposal must be substantiated by reports of chartered accountants or study houses, which will analyse the financial data of damage to the public authorities with evidence that they will submit to the public prosecutors and which will then be used by public policy in the process, but also by the procedure at the audience against the perpetrators, politicians and natural persons, since this information is derived from the interrogation. A political action, which will not be done for the eyes of the world, as you are used to, but for essential reasons, that is to say, in order to claim, through civil actions, such compensation from the natural persons involved and from the multinationals who participated in the party on the invoices of medicinal products to the detriment of the insurance funds and public property. Only then will our contribution be useful and not to the impressions, such as those of the parties that are supposedly cut off for public property, while at the same time attempting to save those of their own, on the one hand, and, on the other, to limit or neutralize the compensation of the public, by abstaining from the necessary legal action. This perpetuation of the political phenomena, which have been raised by committees of inquiry, so that the country's enslavement to foreign centres can continue undisturbed, we believe that it cannot be dealt with either by examination or by pre-reviewing committees, but by a complete change in the political system, which is feeding corruption. When will the complete change in the political system that raises corruption occur? When an authentic people's movement takes place, the movement of Greek nationalists takes precedence over the party of the political parties, which all of you represent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Madam President. The Golden Dawn, the only political force confronted with the most morbid and illegal manipulations of the old political system, which blows the globe, will fight as always to show those responsible for the confiscation and enslavement of the Greek people, without ever feeding fruitfruits hopes for the purpose and result of such processes. At this juncture, in the midst of a preconceived decision to grant Macedonia's name to the Skopje, which you are covering with supposedly negotiating, which is being done for the sight, in the midst of the multi-day hostage of two Greek soldiers from the Turks, for which you are indifferently whistling, the feasibility of the corrupt political system is obvious. The emergence of the timeless policies and criminal responsibilities of post-multipleism is useful only to the extent that the Greek people are informed with evidence that a rich country with insurmountable energy sources, a country of insurmountable historical, cultural and cultural heritage can become with worthless leaders, within a few decades, from the pioneer in 1974, to Europe's beggar today. The only way some, exam or pre-examination will produce a substantial benefit for Greece and the Greeks is the one to which the sovereign people will be judged, that is, recourse to the polls and there you can be certain that the anti-national and corrupt party of the political parties will set and the Golden Dawn of Hellenism will rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, after the "Golden Century" of Pericles, we had the "Golden Seven Years" of Judas with the tornadoes and torture. However, regardless of any jokes, the current proposal of the New Democracy is nothing but a repetition that comes as a farce. In fact, we must admit that the government is rubbing its hands, because it really could not find a better ally than New Democracy in implementing its deep anti-popular policy, but also as a whole. With the proposal today, the New Democracy facilitates precisely the government to implement its overall plan. It makes it easier for the government, for example, to reflect on the real responsibility for the problems facing the Greek people today and on the issues of health, namely that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues the same policy on health and the issue of the medicine, but also on all issues as a whole. It continues the policy pursued by the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, rinsing out in substance the exploitive character of the system and considering that all the issues facing the people are identified in the case of scandals, corruption and interlocutory which are of course exist but which are "children" of the barbaric nature of the capitalist system. It makes it easier for the government to move forward with the disorientation of the people from the dangerous, really, developments that exist in our region from Greece's active involvement in American imperialist planning and the upgrading of the role of the Americans and NATO in our region, with the facilities offered by the government not only in Souda, Araxos, but also in the new base that is being prepared in Alexandroupolis, but also the parking of the unmanned aircraft, the war aircraft, at the Larisa headquarters. It makes it easier for the government in the context of the fourth assessment to escalate the anti-grass attack against the people by taking a series of new anti-grassroots, anti-grass measures. At the same time, however, it facilitates not only the planning of the government, but also the whole of the bourgeoisie, in order to create a deadlock on the popular needs of caging in the new bipolar system, which prepares between the one side in New Democracy and the other side in SYRIZA, so that this is the way of the barbaric confrontation between New Democracy and SYRIZA, on the substance of the convergence of the strategic choices that these two parties have in the implementation of the anti-grasssroots policy and the responsibilities they have for the rapid deterioration of the position of the populace and on the substance of the popular discontent in the choice between Scylla and Harbour, integrating popular discontent into the barbarity of the system. On the substance, the new Republic's rapporteur was right in today's proposal. You are made of the same material, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the PASOK and other parties, from this material, which essentially serves as a political staff of capital the needs and interests of monopolistic groups, because, as our people wisely say, "The depravements honor the first". You cannot smuggle the people's struggles on the opposite side today and take a series of anti-grassroots measures, escalating the anti-grass attack and, at the same time, talking about the traditions of the people's struggles, because your morality, gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, is nothing but moral barbarism of the system. It is nothing but the moral barbarity of imperialist interventions. It is nothing but the morality of monopolist groups to exploit the markets, the wealthy sources and the workers. That's exactly your morality. So you're made of the same materials. Of course, last week in the debate in plenary on the SYRIZA proposal - ANEL, we had indicated that there really is a scandal, a very big scandal. This scandal is that in 2018 there are broadly popular strata that cannot satisfy the basic needs in general, both in health and in medicine, which are excluded from access to upgraded health services, which are prevented from having free access to medication because you are becoming more and more involved in health, you are increasingly marketing the medicine. This is precisely the great scandal, if we tie it up with the development of productive powers, with developments in science and technology, which are really all the more capable of satisfying all the people's needs. There is nothing more than the capitalist gain which you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, are very confidently serving. These issues, for example, which exist in the regular 'NOVARTIS' to be able to promote its medicines, obtain a greater market share, are the usual practice of all its multinationals, all monopolistic groups and multinationals, and in other sectors and sectors of the economy. The 'SIEMENS' scandal, for example, was of similar logic and practice. Also, the armor scandals. From this point of view, therefore, we see nothing but the usual practice applied by multinationals to enable them to have a greater part of the market. Secondly, disclosure of any scandals is nothing but part of the trade war between the United States of America and the European Union on the other hand. It is no coincidence that the 'SIEMENS' scandal was launched by competing US companies. The 'NOVARTIS' scandal had the same source. For VOLKSWAGEN, the corresponding procedure was followed and the corresponding reason existed. On the other hand, there is the Europeans' response to the fines of billions of euros imposed on American multinationals of new technology, such as 'APPLE', 'QualcomM' and a number of others. From this point of view, therefore, the New Democracy proposal does nothing but actually bring the government out of the difficult position. Let me remind you that in the previous debate, the representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK had hypocritically raised a helmet that the previous proposal was based on complaints of anonymous witnesses. Today the New Democracy, as well as the PASOK that supports its proposal, takes a step further: it supports the establishment of a special preliminary committee in anonymous complaints. One step further to the denial and degeneration of this case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We as a party also said last time that we would not legitimise any procedures to degenerate the function of the special preliminary committee. We will not legitimise with our attitude and our presence precisely the overthrow of those responsible and the real issues. And it seemed that we are being confirmed as a party very quickly. Already under the responsibility of majority Members, the special preliminary committee is led precisely to degenerative processes, to reason whether or not it has competence to examine these scandals. And suddenly, only 15 days after the preliminary committee was set up, the Members of SYRIZA and ANEL have discovered it. As a party we said in time during the debate in plenary, firstly, that we want the preliminary committee to function fully and effectively. We wanted all offences to exist and to be examined, regardless of whether any formality might have been omitted. After all, we can put out whatever obstacles the undermining law puts 'no duty of Ministers'. We stated that all witnesses, all witnesses, including those who are protected, should be examined, with their physical presence and by name. In fact, we had then caused the government to include not only the persons under investigation but also the whole of the ministers and the current government in the special preliminary committee. And, indeed, to expand the character and role. At the same time, we had also made a challenge for the extension of the special committee of inquiry on health issues during the period during which the current government is in power and for this period to be considered. In this respect, therefore, also with responsibility for the government majority, not only is it not extended and the functioning of the special preliminary committee is not essential, but we are going to degenerate. We say this clearly: As we will not put our backs on legalising the degenerative directions of the government's majority for the special preliminary committee, we will not put back on today's vote, on the plans of the New Democracy and PASOK, with its specific proposal. A proposal that disorientates the people from the real problems and causes, which obscures the responsibility of both the current government and the previous governments, for the problems experienced by the people and which entangles popular consciences in a dead-end confrontation between Scylla and Harry of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr Lazarides has the floor now from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today been called upon to consider, discuss and reach the end of the proposal put forward by the New Democracy for a preliminary examination by the committee. And where does he support this proposal? It is supported by an anonymous letter, which the prosecutor normally had to file under the provisions of the Criminal Code. Unless there are specific reasons why it should be justified. None of this happened. It is therefore based on the New Democracy in an anonymous letter, which is inaccurate. And it really is to be concerned. But, so sloppy in the mutated neoliberal New Democracy? Is that where New Democracy arrived? Trying to create impressions with a diversion fire? Fifteen days ago the New Democracy colleagues were put here and questioned the testimony of the guarded witnesses, who, on the grounds provided for by the provisions and in particular by laws passed by these two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, were provisionally respected. They're branded faces. They've come all the evidence from the FBI. And they questioned their statements. And they come now and support their proposal in an anonymous letter. And we'll see the letter to see the content. However, it is not even worth talking about an anonymous letter. But we'll see. On the one hand the evidence came, the statements, etc. from the FBI for the health party we all knew about. And our fellow citizens, our compatriots, and the last Halloween village in the country, knew it. Only the colleagues from these two parties had not taken a good look at what was going on. Also, a few days ago data came from Germany. From everywhere, from all over the world, evidence comes to us. This time from Germany, evidence has come about the metro party. They gave, he says, 5% to 7% of each party: to one party, to what was in the opposition, to ensure its silence and to the other, which was in power, to secure them jobs. So well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, And we are now coming here to see some things that this letter has in it, which, as I said, is inaccurate. And no one knows what to do, regret or laugh at what New Democracy is based on, and she submitted her proposal based here. Here I would like to tell you this. Reading the letter invoked by the New Democracy, he admits, invoking the information from this letter, the party that took place in health, where the prices had been launched. What do I want to tell you about this? It says this letter at some point: "If you check Elatofen it had a previous wholesale price of EUR 60,18 and it was proposed to go to EUR 28,24. Watch out. He had 60 euros, and he was suggested to go to 28. Who took her the price at 60 euros? Who were ruling and gave this price to 60 euros, ladies and gentlemen? These two parties weren't ruling? These two parties ruled. Now let's go further. It says here the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u37	This medicine has never been released.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u38	I'll get there. This medicine has never been released. Now I'm talking about the inaccuracies and where they took the prices. Now I'm going to file the complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention and the people who are watching. He says: 'We need to check over all these years the drugs that had 50 euros and now they have 3,5 euros'. Incredible figures, ladies and gentlemen! Who gave this EUR 50 price, ladies and gentlemen? These two parties didn't give the honor? These two parties have thus destroyed the country, ladies and gentlemen. That way. And do they have the nerve to come and test these and ask for a preliminary examination? For the previous medicine mentioned here, Elatofen, with a view to harming the price and reputation of this government, has a surnamed complaint. We have the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association's response to the newspaper 'PHILLETEROS'. It's a newspaper that's across from that government. It's not friendly to the government. It says the reply of the Pharmaco-industrial Association: "It is typical of the inaccuracies of the letter that the Elatofen medicine, referred to as scandalous favor in favour of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, has never been released in Greece". Nobody knows where to start and where to stop. He's filing inaccuracies and lies. These lies are coming and invoked by the New Democracy, the neoliberal mutated New Democracy. I'm stressing it one more time. At this point the New Democracy has come: pleading lies! I present this report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The request of the New Democracy to set up a pre-examination committee reads: ‘The prosecutor in her transmission does not name the Minister but refers to the year 2015 and to the Ministers for Health during that period.’ What's that? That's vague, isn't it? Generally and vaguely completely. I'm leaving because it's procedural. I want politically to see this because it is purely political. In another paragraph, the New Democracy says: ‘This Article 22 of Law 4213/2013 in paragraph 5 states, inter alia, that prices shall be issued within the time limits set’. Continues ‘Full price reviews, etc.’. It makes an explanation in this provision of the bill, New Democracy, and says: "The legislator, in wanting to limit the costs of medicine, has forced the individual...". Who has put up the pharmaceutical cost and needs to reduce the pharmaceutical cost? It's what we used to say before. It was uploaded by these two parties. And he's still here and he's interpreting it as he wants. "The legislator, therefore, in order to curb the pharmaceutical expenditure, has forced the Minister of Health to carry out..." - take note, ladies and gentlemen - "in price reviews downwards, twice a year." What law does he invoke? Invokes Law 4213/2013. And they say from the New Democracy that they made this law review downwards. I have the law here in front of me. Let's see if this law says anything down. Nowhere does this law say any revisions down. It says: 'Prices shall be issued within the time limits set by the Community Directive on transparency'. Full price revisions are made twice a year and in the meantime invoices of new medicines are invoiced." Where does it say about reductions here? Does it say anything about reductions? It's really impressive what the New Democracy does. That is to say, it comes up and invokes lies in order to disorientate colleagues, to convince them of things that are not really, to create impressions. On the other hand, we have complaints, statements by Mr Salma. I say this because some of the opposition claims that 'you know, we have reduced expenditure'. And we have a complaint here. It's not a complaint from SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks. Mr Salmas says: 'Adonis increased the cost of medicines for the insured.' The former Deputy Minister of Health only charges for the increase in participation in the successor of the Minister of Health, Mr. Georgiadis. A little attention, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, it says: "I have given Mr Georgiadis a weighted share of patients in the medicines 21.2%, as can be seen from the data from HRB, which has now exceeded 28%, approaching 30%". And it charges this increase in participation exclusively to the successor of the Minister of Health. This is the reduction, ladies and gentlemen, which they call for. They have reduced the cost of the public, but they have increased the cost to the citizen. Instead of protecting the citizen who trusted them with his vote, he was exposed and troubled and subjected to unjustified expenditure. We also have in 2011 a question from Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Aygeakis, who - of course, were in another party at the time - denounced precisely the excessive costs, excessive invoices of medicines. I shall conclude, Madam President. They were pleading here unconscious at the previous meeting. When they signed an increase in invoices and we had an increase in health expenditure of more than 2% - it had reached 2.2% - 2.3% - while in the rest of Europe it was 0.85%-0.90%, I mean, in relation to GDP, no one suspected anything. That's what happened. And you know, here when we say, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2000 expenditure was 1%, GDP was 158 billion. When 2010 went to 2.10% of GDP, GDP was at 222 billion. Calculate, ladies and gentlemen, what public money smash and smash are we talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u39	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor for ten minutes, which as Vice-President he will respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President, for many years, of course you and all women. We are against violence - we are not talking about this - and if you allow me some advice to men: women have them to be beautiful to life. To consult them and to follow the sixth feeling, because it is very important for us. And to be supportive of us, of course. Happy birthday to all of you! Let's start nicely, 'cause we're gonna go to the hardest. Ladies and gentlemen, in the corresponding debate on 'NOVARTIS', we warned the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that with its inspirations and insights it consciously chooses distance from the rest of the political world at a very difficult time for the country, and all it takes is conscientiousness and harmony. I shall, in fact, mention relevant examples. Unfortunately, however, the government is managing our national issues on its own. Very recently, we have witnessed unexplained and unauthorized, but a strong desire for the government to hand over Macedonian's name, history and culture to the Skopje. He ignored the entire Greek people and proceeded to secret diplomacy and secret talks and all we learned was whatever leak on the part of Mr. Nimic. The same approach we had on the issues of the Cyprus EEZ, where they suddenly forgot that the Cypriots are our brothers and remembered that they were an independent state. And now we are reliving it again in the last few days with the "pigmatosia", because we do not rule out the question of the kidnapping of the two officers of the Armed Forces, the unsubstantiated Angel Metrite and the Sergeant of NGO Dimitris Koklatzis, who for us is clear that on her first day she has escaped the entire question and focused on the illusion of remodeling, not to mention the ignorance and anguish of the families, the army and the citizens. And when he found out, he ran to the media for statements and so on. It gives me particular impression - and I will present this post, so that it does not appear to be a story, which has come like a lightning in hunger - that the American ambassador for two and a half hours was informed by the Chief of HNDGS at the Minister of National Defence and on the issues of the two old men in Turkey - in a cell, I do not know where - without us knowing anything. I don't know if it's been in history before. The American Ambassador shall be informed directly to the Pentagon by the Chief of HNDGS at the Minister's disposal. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Honestly, we wish what everyone is thinking right now will soon end this issue and the Greeks will return to our homeland. Of course, the government could have us all, and I do not know why it is stubbornly denying the meeting of political leaders, under the eyes of the President of the Republic on national issues, our national defence and our foreign policy, and choosing our lonely course, discussing and resolving everything on its own, without experience, without knowledge, without ability, without allies, without friends. Let me now come to the not so serious issues. So the government has to deal with another project today. The proposal of the seventy-fifths, except for a New Democracy MP, to set up a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination. And be careful, the New Democracy, which considers such an important issue to be discussed in plenary, has three Members here. That's three, and the cuckoo! It is so important and we have only three Members from the Civic Opposition who sign up for this committee. Waited, you see, something left of the previous conversation, known as the anonymous cocoon witnesses and the caffeine-type argument level. One minister says, with the original P.K., which at first did not say who he was, but then introduced to us as Panagiotis Kourublis, he was allegedly responsible for the non-invoicing of medicines in the year 2105, which resulted in the excessive increase in annual pharmaceutical expenditure. We also have them at that time, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, and Deputy Minister of State Mr. Paulos Paulakis, to be told that, with the delay in invoking the drug price report, which they made just in December 2016, they have damaged many millions of euros to the Greek public and the insured. So, whoever has a relative distortion to sit down and compare these two proposals, the one brought by the government two weeks ago and the one brought by the Qualified Anti-Civilization at the moment, will surely find too many similarities, such as the high-level documentation and institutional evaluation of the resulting signs of the 'Bronze at an angle, so it rains' type, the anonymous complaints, involved at Minister level, the high amounts of public damage, the medicine as an object of exploitation and, it is understood, the patients as victims and the always present 'NOVARTIS' and its current Vice-President. Of course, it will also find some differences, such as the fact that today's proposal does not include hoodiers, it does not have protected witnesses or witnesses in the public interest, it concerns a different period of time, it does not interfere with the judiciary of government officials and it is not of the same importance - because the FBI is not involved and, therefore, public opinion and the media have not dealt with so much or the pro-government forms have taken care of to be necessary and rich support material. There, however, the distinct and different that emerges from today's proposal, which gives rise to great impression and wonder, is the timeless and unshakable refusal of SYRIZA - ANEL strains either to the opposition earlier or now as a government since 2015 to do anything, so that even slightly lower drug prices. In any case, however, we as the Central Association have said so: we want it all in the light, but not for communication reasons. We always seek the truth and always attach the same seriousness to all cases. So in the present case, as in the previous case, we are calling for a plenty of light to be poured out so that we can finally know why the prices of medicines in recent years do not fall. So we expect logic from government officials. So who's that? To vote in favour of this committee too, as it voted for the previous one. And just as the members of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government required the former ministers of the New Democracy and PASOK two weeks ago to come to committee poorly, so we expect the current ministers to come to the committee, to submit whatever information they know, to present whatever evidence they have, if any, to prove that they are innocent themselves, if of course they are only innocent, because they know nothing and we all know nothing. We also expect the SYRIZA ministers, because when you were opposition you asked, to do what you said from the opposing ministers that were at the time: to resign so that they can unreservedly commit themselves to their defence and not to half the reformism, to conclude sometime. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that all the things that are going on in relation to these committees have probably escaped from any seriousness, from whatever credibility, from whatever substance, which should really be of concern to us all. After all, there are dozens of fields which each opposition can have on the level of parliamentary control of the individual government. I will give you an example: Two days ago we were informed that "Greek Petroleum" appoints anyone with an annual salary of 60,000 euros simply by bringing a certificate that he is a SYRIZA official. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will not be long delayed and thank you for your tolerance. To conclude, I would like to say that, despite the fact that in our childhood we thought that anyone who starts the fight first, is wrong - not always - once again we draw attention to both major parties, both in New Democracy and in SYRIZA, about how they have chosen to resolve their differences. Because the policy, ladies and gentlemen, which you have decided to follow in each other's footsteps, is very likely to lead to evangelism, not only of politics but also of the institutions, which has a great influence on our democracy. And we're going to the cherry pot on the cake. Are you talking at the moment about another pre-request committee and I would like to ask you? Do we have competence or not? And I'm not saying it, I'm not leaking anything. Here are the publications on our competence or not - I am tabling them in the Minutes - not to say that we are leaking various information. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On whether we are responsible for continuing the committee, which you have asked for and said that you want all the parties involved to come to be interviewed, we are discussing it in committee. For this proposal now, are we in charge or not? We have to decide before it is decided whether the committee will be set up. Here we are to produce work, ladies and gentlemen, not to trouble the world. Me and you, I'm sure we have better jobs to do. And the services here, the stenographers and all those working in the House, have something better to do than print and share documents, Minutes and sit down until late at night, because we have a bit of a bite! In fact, you say that it is the biggest scandal in the beginning and the establishment of the Greek state, you bring it to Parliament, we have been talking about it for a month, while the world is hungry, it is unemployed and it has other problems and we come to the committee, which you are doing on the first thing we have to do is whether it will be the committee responsible or not. Is she gonna be in charge? It's a Papantoniou type fiasco!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Georgiadis, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u42	I'll be done in seconds. Finally! Please be serious. We will not witness and will not participate in your own communication games. We are of the essence and not communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Mavrotas, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. We are living in a parliamentary déjà vu after 15 days, discussing the setting up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination for three ministers, Mr Kurublis, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, on matters relating to pharmaceutical expenditure from 2015 onwards. It has to do with possible acts or omissions of them during their ministerial term. Is that a scandal? Let's see. Maybe! Are there any questions? Clearly there are, and we put them in place, and fifteen days ago, when the ten-day referral was discussed and the eleventh was missing, Mr. Kourublis, who, while there was in the prosecutor's referral, was ultimately not socketed by his name. Then we said: 'All in the light!'. So we say now: to investigate these complaints too. If responsibilities arise from acts or omissions, they may be attributed, but the main thing is to close the holes of the system, which create distortions in the pharmaceutical expenditure and create grey zones where decisions can be taken which are often contrary. Let's start with Mr. Kurubli. There were reports from Mr. Loverdos, Mrs. Christophilopoulou and Mr. Kegeroglou about a year ago. They mentioned Mr. Kourublis' omission to make a price sheet in the first half of 2015 with all that that implies. We discussed this 15 days ago. We said then that it should not be excluded from the referral, and indeed with its signature on the proposal by SYRIZA colleagues. It should not be excluded, to explain how the institutions prevented him from drafting a price card in the first half of 2015. This was also the excuse mentioned in SYRIZA's proposal to circumvent this law. And because, when the drugs are being re-examined, their prices are falling by a overwhelming percentage, with the absence of a price card, prices have not fallen for a long time, burdening insured and public authorities, with a small question mark for the latter, because with a closed budget and a clawback it is difficult to substantiate public damage. There is no doubt, however, that there has been no harm to the citizens who have had to put their hand in the pocket for their participation or their full expenditure on medicines, which has recently become even greater. Let's go to the second of the ministers mentioned, Mr. Blonde. Mr. Xanthos was Deputy Minister of State of Mr. Kourublis, and after September 2015 he was the Minister. He did the revaluation not just as soon as he took over, but on December 14, 2015. It would therefore be interesting to hear - in good faith always - because he obviously knew about this omission by Mr Kurublé, because he was his Deputy Minister, because he did not immediately issue a price report, but it took about two and a half months. The second question that exists in the New Democracy complaint about Mr. Blondos is whether with the price supplement on 23-12-2016 he favoured about 100 drugs, as the complaint says. And since revaluation usually means lowering the price, basically the charge is whether it was in its power to further reduce the prices of medicines and did not. In other words, to be understandable, the charge is whether it could, for example, reduce prices by 50% and reduce them by only 25%. I imagine he'll explain them to us later. Finally, Mr. Paulakis is involved because he was supervising the EEA and compensated for the medical expense, while he was supposed to know that he was infatuated and did not do anything about it. In my opinion, Mr Paulakis is getting into this particular castle, rather as a guest star, so that the whole process can be cut off. More personally, I could blame him for smoking in public in enclosed areas and for his various appointments of acquaintances rather than for that. And now that I'm thinking of it an examination of the non-implementation of the anti-smoking law over time would make sense. This is a real scandal, Minister. I'll be back to today. The two cases, 'NOVARTIS' and today, have similarities and differences. The similarities are that they relate to the same space, the medicine. We also have anonymous testimony here, beyond any events. Here too, acts or omissions of Ministers are being investigated. The differences - because there are differences - are also - are that with NOVARTIS we have data from outside, and if we are talking about foreign services today. Another difference is that the 'NOVARTIS' case concerns ten persons from different parties and any offences have been dropped, and here we have only three persons from the same party and possible offences have not all been banned. There are similarities and differences, therefore, but I think that our behaviour cannot be a kart. And ours won't be a card. But for you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, the question is whether the 'all in light' you said 15 days ago still applies. So does 'all in light' apply' or does it happen when it comes to your own people get you a photophobia? But we're going beyond faces and the subject of the examination. The subject of the medicine is a very serious case to leave it to political opponents. The medicine is a matter of public health, social policy and economic activity. Indeed, the domestic pharmaceutical industry is in our comparative advantages on the basis of the economic studies of recent years. The studies of "McKINSEY" for 2012, IOBE for 2013 and "DIANOSIS" for 2016, say the same. So if we wanted to see this constructively and essentially, we should focus on structures and procedures. For example, how the electronic medical file, therapeutic protocols, patient registers, will proceed, how can generics be promoted, as is happening everywhere in Europe. Should doctors and pharmacists be encouraged? Let's see all this, because if we don't do this healing expenditure, it won't work out a place, that is, where we really need it, and we'll be chasing our tail on what one minister signed and what the other has signed. Transparency, then, is an institutional counterweight to ensure that the 'grey areas' of the system, through which some always draw power, disappear. That is why when the Committee of Inquiry into Health was discussing this last year, which would investigate the period 1997-2014, we said to extend the period until 2016 and 2017. There should be all three cases that we are discussing today. On the one hand, they should be sought and given responsibility, wherever they exist, and on the other hand, we should find the holes in the system and close them, create institutions and procedures that will not let the finger enter the honey. Therefore, instead of looking for the moral advantage, we should look for the institutional advantage. After all, armoring the moral advantage the government constantly invokes, sometimes rustles and cracks, as we have seen more and more recently. I think that if there were no SYRIZA case for the NOVARTIS case, there would be no New Democracy's current state of health ministers in SYRIZA. What I understand is the way in which the pre-examination committee's 'NOVARTIS' case, where'strengthening term and poured it out', as it turns out, is that these things are being done for the show or better for the 'television', to tell the new people how dirty the old are and to say that the old people are not as weak as the new ones. 'Ophthalmonic for an eye' and 'Pre-examination for an interrogative'! But is that how we're going? With such open fronts, with the economy at a critical turning point, with decisions to be taken not for the next few months or for the next few years, but for the next generations, with all this open, we will be chasing our tail? A small parentheses here, since I referred to national issues: we have, as a Potami, made a proposal for a law since December 2016 on the establishment of the National Security Council. It was brought back yesterday by the President of the Parliament by letter to the President of the Parliament, asking for his recommendation. In the past few days, the necessity of the National Security Council has been highlighted by Prime Minister Tsipras and the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr Mitsotakis. So what else can we wait for? Should we discuss this at some point in the House on a break from the pre-inquiry committees and the committees in which we are going? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty more seconds, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, politics means priorities. We must make, as a political system, a relaunch, see the real importance for the country and not for our parties. Put the national narrative above the party narratives. Let's see just beyond the party walls, look at the new generations and not in the new polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and students and four educational sessions since the 9th Lamia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaopoulos, Independent MEP, also has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. In particular, however, I would like to thank Mr Venizelos for his presence in the Chamber brought Members from Mr Mitsotakis' party. They were so interested in this debate that they had left a “master”! Now it's seven. And that thanks to you, because I saw, over there, that you were asked whether you would be the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u47	They'll be gone and they'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u48	They won't make it in ten minutes. Indeed, I thought maybe I should wear a helmet, because this conversation would be of great interest, had an exchange of arguments, had passion, etc. There's a Nerra in the Chamber, and, in fact, if the cameras show...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u49	We're here for you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Cryazides, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u51	...they'll see what the interest of those who signed and really wanted to highlight the scandal is to present the evidence. The smokes! They're looking to find out now if it was a Minister who wrote the anonymous complaint, if it was - he says - and a judiciary, because he can't - say - drug manufacturers answer, because they're not gangbangers. Is it possible to answer a point to this anonymous letter, which was accidentally filed on 30-3-2017? On 21-2-2017, Mr. Loverdos sent. On 8-3-2017 and 13-4-2017 in between, within these few days the New Democracy says "to do something". But she doesn't sign her signature. He comes to put it next, today, that brings this anonymous letter and makes it called, even though the socks of pharmaceuticals have made an official announcement and they ask, "Who wrote this letter? But it's full of inaccurate. But you are exposed." You, a conservative party, a conservative party, don't you talk to us, tell you, ask you? And now they're looking to find out who wrote it. I can't believe it. They're indicting someone who's always incriminating. Whether it's 'panathena' or others, it's all his fault. But did the press, the centre-friendly, make it a first theme? Oh, no. Where did he put it? In the province we say're back to funerals' because that's where they put social rights. That's probably why they put it there. No newspaper today thinks that this is a major issue. Is that the same thing happened last time? What do you think? Oh, no. And those who agreed and those who disagreed were on the front line to give information from the report to the citizens and said they took it from politicians and said names. Here I did not hear any of the hardest rivals get up and say "Polakis got it", "Danth took it", "my friend Aetolakarna got it". They didn't say. They dared to say neither for suitcases nor for anything. You know, that's something! I remember Mr. Venizelos talking about anonymous witnesses to emphasize the protected ones. He knows very well that by their identity they testified. It's just that their anonymity is maintained. Prosecutors know their name. Today the prosecutor doesn't know the name of the person signing this anonymous complaint. And you know, it's extremely important to have it in our minds. A few days ago, once again, I said that there is nothing better for the country than the guilty being exposed to scandals, but also for the innocent to enjoy the light of their innocence. I imagine that this will be done in the preliminary, whether the Mitsotakis Members are staying or leaving. Because, he says, they'll leave. Because they will protest, as they protested the other day with the ten ballots, but this evening we will see them all, one behind the other, voting on the three ballots. Now it's okay, as Mr. Venizelos did when he asked for the seven polls to expose - the newspapers were writing back then - Karamanlis. Then the seven balls were fine. Then the ten polls weren't good, and tonight the three balls will be fine. I'm telling you this so we can all remember, since we'll see it. They don't need to talk about it, the images are enough. So I insist, today and again: every time and in any case, on every case, on the public interest and there is a possible or certain damage, I stress - and I stress, of course, with all of you - the need for in-depth examination and administration of justice, much more when the accusations are about political persons, much more when the scandal is justly or unfairly surrounding the House and the government buildings. I think that, in particular, in these cases, we first have to seek research and absolute truth. And I think we are the first to be the ones to give the image to the citizens that we often attempt to cover up and not reveal. And that, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing not only with committees that do not end up anywhere, with conclusions that do not draw conclusions or with a scandalous attitude that we are feedbacking, but also with practices that try to blur assumptions or practices that show that a political force is interested in evening the other and not really reaching the truth of the case. I'm really sorry to say this, but I feel that today we're in a situation like this. I think Mr. Mitsotakis is back in a tactic showing a micro-party game and not a real contribution to revealing the truth. And what I at least understand is that Mr Mitsotakis either doesn't understand his own interests or his party's interests or trusts very bad consultants. It supports the Party of Officerial Representation that potential responsibilities of the political leaders of the Ministry of Health of the current government should be investigated. And I say: Not one, but a thousand times to be investigated. But there's a reason, brother, to have evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be evidence of the need to set up not one but ten committees. We must have some serious complaints or indications that will enable us to investigate the responsibilities without risking becoming laughable and without showing that we are setting up committees of inquiry, because we have nothing else to do in this House. Is there any such evidence about the persons we're talking about today? Have you been telling us that there might have been the money of a minister or some other state or government health factor, as it was heard last time? Are there any testimony and witnesses, as happened in the 'NOVARTIS' case, which we discussed days ago? Anonymous letter. Yes, sir. So we have all heard from the Bureau this morning that today's debate is moving as if it is a timely question. I have heard the rapporteur, Mr Tassoula, saying: 'They do not want to talk. They want to cover it.’ Here's the TV here, and the MPs here are. So there is a splendid field of glory that everyone says and contributes to the heaviest and important complaint he has. Where is he? Luckyan. But it's not anywhere. Permit the benches from the MPs of Mr Mitsotakis. In any case, you who denounced and awarded Alexis Tsipras, his ministers, even the prosecutor against corruption, Ms. Toulopakis, for the involvement of political persons in the case of NOVARTIS, today, really, why not exercise that great right that every citizen has? Why don't you go sue them for the actions and omissions you say? You didn't say here, "Would we break bones", "Would we..."? Go on. Does anyone forbid you? Why don't you also address the other audit authorities, such as the Health Inspectors' College or the Public Administration Inspector General, as before, if you have any information that you've been holding up as an ace in the sleeve and you don't want to show us today? Well, when you bring them in, we'll be here. But if you had anything to say, it was that, all right? The treasure's carbon! Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to tell you that these games are not going to be played, because no one is watching them, because they are worthless. I say again that if there is one in the future, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we will be here to say 'yes' and to vote with both hands. My view is that today's proposal is a bean. This is a meaningless and low-level political settlement, which, in fact, if we want to judge it politically, offers practically good services to the government in a political and communication field. That is not all I have said today, but those who have gone through this step, of all the other parties, have said so. Only Mitsotakis doesn't understand it. After all, because I am not even interested in the self-government of Mr Mitsotakis, I will tell you one more thing. Finally, you know, it is more honorable to say 'no' to a committee of inquiry that you do not believe, rather than to say 'yes' and to come to the Committee of Inquiry and to be a defender of Bobola, the Psygmis and all those who are called by the Committee of Inquiry. The Greeks are listening. And every week they follow the Committee of Inquiry, they see you, who say 'yes' to the Committee of Inquiry, when you take the floor to do everything to cover them up and not to reveal their responsibilities. It is only for anyone to attend the Committees of Inquiry. That is why I am saying that it is more honest to say: 'I do not agree with this committee of inquiry because it has no scandal' than to say 'I agree' but within the committee of inquiry to undermine it. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at these critical moments in the place - and I believe that it remains critical, despite the optimism expressed by the government wing - there is no need for games to balance political responsibilities, nor for tactics to show that, instead of clearing, a bourgeoisie is being attempted. I repeat once again that neither we are all the same in this Chamber nor all have eaten it together. We have a responsibility to say it, but also to show it. Each of us is always measured by his responsibilities and conscience. Honestly, I don't know what else I should say, looking at my old allies and always like-minded ones. What else is left to see, dear friends? I will only say, "God, what else will we see at this time when Mitsotakis is leading the boy?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u52	Mr Venizelos has asked for the floor. Then the parliamentary representatives follow. At least Mr. Rabbit has declared his desire to speak. I don't know from the other parties. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is institutional and evidence. The proposal of the Members of the New Democracy will be rejected by the qualified majority vote of the SYRIZA-ANEL parliamentary majority, with what this means for the specific acts and omissions of the three current ministers under Article 86 of the Constitution. However, politically today, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is forced to say officially that it deceives Greek society, that it is not interested in any transparency and any truth. It is inhibiting all the research into its own Ministers for Health. Protected on February 21 with procedural tricks Mr. Kurubli. He has stubbornly refused and refused any investigation into Saudi Arabia's well-known case, as he stubbornly refuses to call its protagonists before the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, in breach of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and one of the Minority's minimum rights. He, however, guided as government and organized the construction against ten political persons, not random. Among these are people who express democratic pro-European opposition. They represent the country in European institutions. They symbolize the prestige of justice. Most of these persons, however, symbolize the struggle of 2010-2015 to stand the country upright, staying inside Europe. We are the opponents of the great lies that have brought you to power, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Our presence constantly reminds us not only of the Greeks and Greeks but also of your own disapproval, of your turf and of your policy, of the serious harm you have caused to Greek society, of the economy and its prospects. In Delphi last week I tried to be diligent in my assessments of the size of the damage caused mainly in the first half of 2015 and throughout the entire three years. I voluntarily stopped at eighty billion. The next day, with the knowledge of all the aspects of the Greek drama which played a very important role, Mr Vizer insisted on at least 200 billion, at least 200 billion! And he explained it both financially and developmentally and budgetaryly. Now, the action against your opponents continues with the procedural trick you're going to set up in the pre-examination committee. You have also announced this in plenary on 21 February, and on the proposal from your Members on 12 February. The majority of the committee does not want any substantial research to be carried out. He wants to leave the anonymous witnesses anonymous, unknown and silent, like the perpetrators of the Inquisition. He wants to limit the whole issue to a so-called legal debate on the competence of the committee, without looking at the three anonymouss, without any other witnesses being invited, without Mr. Frozen who is at the heart of the whole story, without the old and current administration of NOVARTIS, without the documents that NOVARTIS has been authorised by the Personal Data Protection Authority to pass on to the United States Ministry and the Capital Market Commission, but the Committee of Parliament does not want to ask and evaluate them. You're cheating, ladies and gentlemen of the government, public opinion. You refused to ask for a preliminary committee to be set up for the infidelity and damage to the public interest, saying that the offence has been eliminated, that it has therefore been dropped, without infidelity and damage to the public interest, there is no reason and reason for no corruption or money laundering or any other offence. You added the money that the prosecutor has not even sent it to the House, assuming that it retains its competence, so that you have allegedly told me that you are sending back to justice something that justice has never sent to the House. And you're going to build a so-called theory of the alleged bribery that runs counter to the established case law. I gave it last time. I gave the last speeches, in 1440 of the Athens Tenth Council and in 1 of 2011 of the Special Court under Article 86 of the Constitution. It runs counter to parliamentary practice, it runs counter to scientific literature and, above all, it runs counter to explicit provisions of the Criminal Code that you have concealed from the House and from the committee at its previous meeting. Open and read, not anything else, but Article 263b(4) and (5) of the Criminal Code, which states: "In the cases referred to in Articles 235 to 263 and 39, there is the power of the House for Ministers and State Secretarys". It is an explicit provision in force since 2010 and was further formulated in 2014. How dare you hide from your colleagues and from the House an explicit provision that you are violating? Speech, unequivocally, quite specific and specific! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u54	To you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u55	Shame on Parliament and science! For Parliament has competence because these acts have been committed in the performance of its duties or there is no offence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u56	Show them to yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u57	Because the Criminal Code demands a close connection with the authority. Andreas Papandreou was tried and acquitted in 1992 with the same constitutional provision for passive bribery and fraudulent acceptance of crime products. Constantine Mitsotakis was accused of phone intercepting. Recently, he's been accused of fraudulent documenting. These, do you know how far more they are from the exercise of duties, according to SYRIZA - ANEL theory than supposedly - bribes? However, what should we discuss when you deliberately ignore Article 263b of the Criminal Code, which also applies in the case of the new offence under Article 159, the ‘privileged political official’, which explicitly refers to 263b? Believe you don't open the Criminal Code? Oh, no. I don't have you for so ignorant. But the construction lures you into flaws, treachery, with the advancement of naivety. Look, you muddle, slander, slander and then, as cowards, resort to the only solution you know: Avoid effective investigation, search for truth, proof of truth. We want research on the substance. Such investigations may be carried out in the committee only. Justice doesn't have jurisdiction. The provisions are express. Anyone who closes the committee with legal discussions, childish, doesn't want an investigation. We want research into both the illegal and the infidelities and damage to the public interest and to all, for the whole period until 2018. The construction of the building, however, is very fragile, procedural and irreparably exposes those who participated in it, politicians and certain judicial and public prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in order to keep this structure ready, you enjoy the justice and its officials. Fortunately, the vast majority of judges and prosecutors are resisted. I talked on 21 February about a bleak situation within justice, about disciplinary and criminal persecution. They're getting close to the papers. The director of the Prime Minister's Legal Office is being denounced for interventions inconceivable to justice, which run counter to the judicial associations and the responsibilities of the Athens Court in plenary and council. However, this whole operation is a political enterprise of polarization and division, it is the substitute for a policy that leads nowhere to the economy or foreign policy. The "clean exit" account has been completely cancelled in the last few days. The bond curve, you see where it leads us. Consider: For Greece, which has always wanted Eurobonds and reconciling the debts of the Eurozone member countries - the North countries are reacting, but we want them - what is it? Exit on the markets of the lonely Greece or exit with Eurozone coverage? That's the question. And who's stricter? Partners or markets? Why did we resort to the partners? Because, of course, the markets kicked us out. Anyone who thinks it is an act of liberation and dominance, contact with markets without a net of protection, is unbelievable and dangerous. And we've spoken too many times...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u58	Do you want a new memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u59	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u60	The new memorandum exists, Mr Papadopoulos. There is already. You signed it. You have taken responsibility for huge primary surpluses. There is. The thing is if there's gonna be cover, not if there's a memorandum. There will be a Memorandum with your signature. Yours too. [[Applause]] Mr Tsakalotos remember what he dared to answer, to glean, in the debate on the budget for cash. I called him unfamiliar. I asked him a question, and I say to him: 'How much will it be, how long will it be, where will it be, at what cost, on what terms?' I asked for the relevant documents. He never answered. It's been two months. I changed the question and the request for documents to be lodged in accordance with Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure and asked the President of the Parliament by the Conference of Presidents to discuss my question. There's a world conversation. There's press conversations. There are ten publications a day. Can the House be silent, because Mr Tsakalotos says: 'All in March I shall make secret negotiations'? You don't even have a technical solution to the issue of the cash buffer. He refuses the Minister to come and discuss, so that you who are called upon to vote and take responsibility. And, of course, the same and worse, unfortunately, are happening in foreign policy. I said that there is not going to be a solution to the name issue. I hope that the pressure will be dismantled ahead of the July summit in NATO. We will see which government then at the pace of developments. But the big theme of foreign policy is Greek-Turkish relations, it's the chain of events...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Venizelo, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u62	I will end in a minute, Mr President. After a chain of events, we can say that we unfortunately have a national strategic gap. We have spent 15 years, which coincides with Mr Erdogan's presence in power, without a warm episode in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. But Turkey has changed. He's been drinking all over. It has a problem of national integrity, national cohesion, social cohesion. Even the Cemal opposition is pushing in a tough nationalist direction. And we have within weeks the episode "Homi 2", the departure of the drill from the EEZ of Cyprus and the arrest of our two children, who are imprisoned in Adrianoupolis. Do you see a coherent, mature, integrated security policy managed by the government? You're making a difference? So what we need to do as a country is to understand what the internal policies, social and national conditions of such a strategy are. These preconditions for the security and the promotion of the country are undermined and bewildered by the polaristic and divisive line of slander, mud-slaughter and, of course, the question of the authority of the political system, which will eventually strike you. Because you are now paying it as power exercisers by the oldest method, which you obviously always wanted to enjoy. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your political time is over. And you're preparing not for the country's clean exit on the markets, but for your dirty, unfortunately, exiting power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u63	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, has the floor. And the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras will be followed. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u64	Before going to Stepma, I meant to start by saying how pretextful and completely false ones are the charges that throw one political party to the other, supposedly defeating them for dishonesty they have done in the past. It was a wish that, before me, Venizelos came to the House in order to speak. Venizelos has come up to protest and tell us about past scandals and about the fact that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is currently doing acts that are not in line with the law and all the relevant ones. Venizelos on February 25, 2005, in the debate of the pre-examination committee set up at the time for the armaments scandals - scandals that proved after about twelve years, because they were covered by them all - he had said in the Greek Parliament that some of the numbers that existed next to the name of Papantoniou - which were bank accounts, to which Papantoniou was given black money and not just - were phone numbers. That's what Venizelos said at the time, who had the nerve to be in Stepma this and speak - but that's how they've learned - and no one from below would interrupt him and tell him that he's a liar, who's led a party that's gone about 180-190 million euros from their friends, big bankers from whom he was taking sea-doating. He is the same person who has hidden in the drawer a search with sworn accountants he had once put in the PASOK offices when he was the Chief of PASOK. Another EUR 15-18 million has disappeared. He came and told us this here, and no one stopped him underneath it. But how will one stop him from being stopped after, again, on 25 January 2005 in the debate in plenary, which took place at the time, Venizelos with his audacity and with the tolerance he was taking from the then existing in Parliament, the KKE and SYRIZA, came out and stated this. I read it to you because I don't want a single party to be lost. "The measure of truth is a great deal given by the constructive views tabled by the MPs of the Elasso Opposition parties in the Committee of Inquiry, by Mr Patsilinakos on behalf of the JRC and by Mrs Xirotyri on behalf of the Coalition." I repeat to hear these things. This is what has been discussed since the 2005 armaments scandal, which had covered all parties at the time in Parliament. Patsilinakos, therefore, on behalf of the JRC and Mrs Xyrotyri on behalf of the coalition, says Venizelos "Why there is clearly the answer to the main political question. Is the existence of possible criminal responsibilities for former Ministers or not? The response of the Communist Party and the Coalition, in order not to invoke the PASOK answer or the public response, is 'no, it does not even raise a similar question'. That's what Venizelos said that two minutes ago he was fighting you here. But then you also agreed with your representatives and gave him forgiveness. That was the political bourgeoisie that existed in this Chamber. Politicians were always stealing Greece. They came to our country to owe 320 million euros and one was covering the other. Yannis Papantoniou is now dragging behind justice and very soon as things go, he will be shut down in prison along with Tsohatzopoulos. Then you all cleaned them up. But then there was no Golden Dawn in the House. Because in 2005, if there was Golden Dawn, all these scandals would have been out since then. There have been hundreds of scandals in the Greek Parliament, which you have covered the entire parliamentary gang that is plundering our homeland. On the same day Papantoniou and he said in the style of a thousand cardinals at that time, because they considered that they were in the unpredictable: "I must also pay tribute to the Members of the parties of the opposition, the JRC and the coalition, not only for its essential contribution to the investigation of the truth but also for the bravery that they showed to state clearly that they did not find any completely superficial action or action for the political persons involved in the investigation." I submit it for the Minutes, just so that the Greek people can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All of you, then, acquitted them. And we are coming today to discuss a proposal put forward by the New Democracy concerning a preliminary committee of inquiry, say it as you wish, because at this time I am a Member of Parliament I have taken part in some of them and otherwise they begin, otherwise they will continue along the way, under another name. Do what you can to cover the scandals. First of all, we must stress it so that there is no misunderstanding. We are in favour of a committee of inquiry being set up today. 'Yes' we shall vote. This is clear and we stress it. But let's see the hypocrisy of the New Democracy now. The New Democracy yelled and ruined the world about a month and a half ago, for the fact that, within the case-law that had come, there were anonymous witnesses, alpha, beta, gamma, and that was not right, and that should not be the case, because the laws of procedure are being circumvented and the defendant loses his rights. But does New Democracy come and what does it tell us today in its proposal? He says: 'Reporting damage to the public hundreds of millions'. It then says its proposal: ‘This anonymous complaint refers to illegality’. He then writes: ‘This complaint is part of the case-file. We as a Parliament must investigate the complaints made to it." Somewhere, somehow, once! That does not mean that there are probably no responsibilities. To be investigated. But the New Democracy will not tell us that these things do not stand and the protected witnesses do not stand. Because that's where we're fantasizing and contradicting. Whatever's of interest to us! So now we are going to the pre-examination which is now being done for NOVARTIS. The New Democracy, its Chief, Mitsotakis, and its representative to the committee, Vorides, came and said they wanted everything to be in the light. Full controversy - it says - of events. All in the light. Listen to the first meeting of the committee what was said by Maki Voridis: "All this procedure must be secret and must be secret. And at the discretion of even the parties involved to make available this secrecy, they cannot do so." He continues: 'I think that the committee members should not even make public statements about the work of the committee. So our position here is that the procedure must be secret." All in the light. This is the "all in light" of the New Democracy! And it comes from under SYRIZA's Siia Anagnostopoulou - because we have told you that you are a little bypass and we will tell you all the time - and it says: 'Voridis very well'. And there comes Nikos Paradropoulos, who is SYRIZA's rapporteur, who was the first to come to the case and to be examined, and says: "Just so, Mr. Vorides. We agree.' You are a little parade, right-wing and left-wing, who do as you like to make fun of the ordinary Greek citizen. Golden Dawn will expose you all the time! The committees that are being formed are pre-formative. That's clear. There is one solution to something that will be done properly. Immediately abolish the law on immunities of Ministers. There's nothing else. The New Democracy with PASOK here is fighting SYRIZA with the ANELs. SYRIZA and ANEL go up here in the Step of the House and say 'yes, that's right, it must be abolished'. But no one takes him down. Let a decision be made today. Don't be afraid, the Greek people won't blame you for being illegal. You've done other things, you've eaten money, and that's where you didn't get any red. So let us do a small irregularity, illegality, say it what you want. Today, all three hundred MPs, from all political wings, vote that this law ceases to apply, are morally bound and whatever comes from now on, from now on, for Ministers, for MPs and for anything else, will take the process and the path it has for any Greek citizen. I don't understand. What are you ministers and MPs? Because, for us, let it go, there is no parliamentary immunity and we accept it and it is good to do so. What about the rest of you? This is where you blame each other for scandals. Don't you blame each other for scandals? And after you're blaming each other for scandals, who do you deserve? You are fully entitled to the Golden Dawn that calls you years ago that here in the Greek Parliament there have become orgases. Therefore, abolish from today on account of honour - which some do not have - that you will be hiding behind this shameful law and what comes, it will take the path of justice. SYRIZA is shouting and complaining about the New Democracy proposal today. It says "we are very clear". So why does he not accept that the SYRIZA Members should also vote to set up this committee of inquiry? Pre-examination, call it what you want again. So that this committee and these people should bear the facts and clearly prove to be innocent if they are innocent or if they are not to have the consequences they must have. Why are they afraid? So we're coming here to see what's going on. A month ago ten polls had been set up, and the New Democracy shouted and protested: "Who, say, why ten balls have been set, this is an insult, the people there are smashed." Today the New Democracy comes to set three ballots in the same way and to vote. SYRIZA, who then claimed that there should be ten ballots, is now protesting. There shouldn't be three balls. So how many liars are you? How much do you think you can make fun of the Greeks all the time? How much? This is a very big issue, and I would like to talk about a lot of things, but I do not have time. Just give me two minutes, Mr President, thank you. The SYRIZA spokesman was earlier. He was shouting and saying, as attributes say here, 'What are we talking about?' He blamed the law on immunity of Ministers just now. After the time had passed and said other things, he asked, "What are you talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Do you not see here that what you are accusing Mr Kourublis today is being written off?' And he accuseed that law a moment ago. How liars, how hypocrites can you be? We now go to two topical issues to finish, which were not mentioned as they should be. We're dealing with a captivity of Greek soldiers. Whether we want it or we don't want it, that's how two Greek officers have been kidnapped, who are currently in Turkey's prisons, and the Minister here who wore some differentiation jackets and some hats and went up on some warships and made the Comanto, has disappeared. Four - five days now has left these children unprotected in the mouth of dirty Turks. It's an ethnicist government that embarrasses the country, because, besides, it had the courage to make a statement in which it said what it was saying? That the Turks are right and that the children, the soldiers, went through the territories of Turkey and were arrested. But how stupid should some people be to say this thing and give guns to the Turks patio right now to take advantage of these people and blame them even for spying? You're both stupid and incompetent! It's embarrassing what's going on. Greece must take measures and these children must soon and not whenever the Turks want...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u65	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u66	Sit down now, you're SYRIZA's.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u68	Sit down now that Venizelos congratulated you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u69	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr. President, what are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u71	Congratulations, Venizelos, why'd you acquitted him, and today you're going to do pre-examination? Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u72	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u73	So these kids have to go home immediately. These incompetent ones, however, who govern us, do not have the powers and the possibilities to do so. In support of what I am saying, why not just my words, did the honorary Chief of HNDGS, Mr Paragioydakis, appear today and what did he say? He said precisely these words "Greek officers have been captured and abducted through the Greek territories". Can the Greek Government hear it? Where's the Jacket burner? Is he anywhere here? So make sure you release these people immediately. You've thrown them like dogs. Friend came out today and said that this is not a big deal. Seriously, Phil? It is not a major issue for you and for your company, it is a major issue for all the Greeks - for all the ordinary Greek patriots - and it is also a major issue for all of us. We will do everything we can to ensure that these children return to their homes and services quickly. Take good care. What you are doing will not only be at your expense - something that we do not care about at all and see what you will then, because you are devastated politically - but also at the expense of our country. It is about the integrity of Greece and this thing the Golden Dawn will not allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and informed of the history of the building and the way in which the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and two teachers from the Memphis High School of Imathia (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, "The Greek people have the right and demand that everything come out in light and learn the truth". It is the title of the Prime Minister's official website for the speech of Mr. Tsipras on 22 February on the 'NOVARTIS' case from this Step. So this is what you are asking us to prove today, and you, the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, and the government's majority, that you want everything to be cleared up, that the truth be learned at the request of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear, however, that you, the government majority, are more concerned with party impressions than with investigating the truth, and I am also afraid that you will use the House and the majority that you currently have at hand, because you are in favour of a preliminary committee for ten politicians of opposition in a committee, which will probably refer the file back to justice, while the complaints about the three ministers of today's government are funny. There's an imbalance. I mean, that this line is unfair to them and not to them. Since, above all, you of the governmental majority are asking for and demanding - and that is how the people should - that they learn everything, you are due to the three ministers of the government, for whom we are discussing today, to vote in favour of a preliminary recommendation. First of all their actions have not been omitted. They will therefore have the complete power to break down and reject any shadow of suspicion in the preliminary, if we decide on it, not, of course, to prove their innocence, as was somehow heard in the past few days - under no circumstances - but to defend their honour. The presumption of innocence exists up to antenna. I would ask you, however, to see what emerged from the previous sitting here in the House on 'NOVARTIS' to this day. The Prime Minister was then wondering in his speech in plenary whether we have a scandal or whether we have a construction. In fact, he said: 'Is there anyone today questioning the company's opaque practices, the illegal payments of thousands of doctors who prescribed and the company's special treatment? All this has been or has not been?' He was wondering about Mr. Tsipras. A few days later the corruption prosecutors carried out a new attack on "NOVARTIS" and what did they find there? I read from "AGEI", in order not to be charged with dispersed take news and submit in the minutes the post "AGEY": "The prosecutors are alleged to have a new list of three hundred public doctors and individuals who are alleged to have been bribed and received from 1,000 to 5,000 euros in the period January 2016-January 2017." So in other words, did the corruption party continue on both SYRIZA, at least until 2017, or is it different? [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So since NOVARTIS is alleged to bribe doctors during the term of office of SYRIZA's Health Ministers, should we ask ourselves and look if they did so with current officials? I say again that the presumption of innocence applies to everyone, and I fully respect it. But if you really do not lift a fly to your sword, it makes no sense to reject the establishment of the committee we are discussing today. But there are two other questions very important. The first is that the Minister, Mr Kourublis, in his speech two weeks ago in the debate on the preliminary to 'NOVARTIS', pointed out that the prices of medicinal products were not decided by the ministers. In this way, therefore, Mr Kourublis justified the arguments of the incumbent ministers - the ten - that they did not decide themselves on prices but rather on the relevant committees. I imagine, of course, that Mr Kourublis and I suspect that he voted in favour of the proposal to refer the tens. But we really need to know what's going on. Does the Minister finally decide the prices of medicinal products or not? Shouldn't we look into it for SYRIZA ministers? Question 3. The Prime Minister from this Step, as I said, two weeks ago that we all remember, stressed and made the need for the pre-review committee to be set up, in detail in the Surla report. What, then, did the Surla report say, as Mr Tsipras read from this, the Step? He said: ‘The OECD in its report in June 2012 referred to fines of USD 350 million, which imposed judicial authorities of the United States of America on five multinational companies operating in Greece, companies that bribed Greek officials in order to promote their own interests’. That is what the Prime Minister said at the time invoking intervention Surla. A few hours after Mr. Tsipras came down from Stepma, Mr. Sourlas issued a communication and said: "Three years of governance of SYRIZA have passed, drug speculation continues unobtrusively and intrusively, as at the time I said, for example, a radio medicine imported at the price of EUR 623 is available to patients in Greece for EUR 3200, while in European countries with EUR 1087. Unfortunately the prices of radiopharmaceuticals have not yet been posted to the Price Observatory." And he goes on to say: "Russia and the complex are bragging." That is what Mr Sourlas said, a few hours after the Step of the House, Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, invoking the honesty and the evidence that Mr. Sourlas has brought to the public debate for several years now. I also address Mr Sourla's announcement on the subject: 'A reply to the SYRIZA Government on drug speculation and corruption'. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Sourlas cannot have been honest until fifteen days ago and in New Democracy and is not credible today when he refers to the events of the SYRIZA Government. In addition to the document reached by the prosecutor, Mrs Ryku, new evidence has therefore emerged, which imposes the pre-examination. The appeal of the Prosecutor of Corruption to “NOVARTIS” and the revelation of ongoing corruption with public doctors until 2017, Surla's statements that speculation and corruption are hailing in SYRIZA in the field of health and, of course, Mr. Kurubli's points that ministers do not shape prices. It's a chance, then, to make things clear. For these reasons, we should be in favour of the Committee of Inquiry, but with full powers. It must not happen again, what happened with the pre-review committee for Mr Papantoniou and with the pre-review for NOVARTIS, which we decided two weeks ago, and this pre-review, as it turns out, will not have much future and much life ahead of her. Therefore, when they say, in particular, that the Members of the Couple that the people must learn the whole truth, they should not mean revelations of a card. When SYRIZA ministers commit themselves to coming to light, they should not exclude the period of their own governance. Can I tell you something simple? All this would have been solved and we would not even discuss it if the Committee of Inquiry into the scandals in the health field had not stopped in 2014 but arrived until today. We would discuss everything there in the committee, everything would come out or not come out and there would be no this two-party game, which - I honestly speak to you - has nothing to offer not only political life but also the investigation of the truth. Because if it is to investigate the truth, to go from one committee to another and then return to justice because of lack of competence, then all we are playing here is a shadow theater and not our parliamentary role. Ladies and gentlemen, I have told you what our position is. All in light, full competences and no time-out of any period of investigation of this space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you to Mr Amyras and to the economy of time. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the subject today, I am obliged, as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, to introduce a few seconds into the foreign policy issues that concern the country. I will not say much, but I urge all my fellow Members, all the Members of this House, to see the Minutes of the Committee on Foreign and Security, which they met two days ago. Evidently, of course, there has been a debate on the issue of the two Greeks, the two militarymen currently detained in Turkey. And the House on all sides, all our colleagues, expressed our support. Of course, the claims made by one father yesterday by the other, which these people have said, make us proud, because they see in their children heroism, see that their children have a debt which they are struggling to carry out in the best way and the House is close to them. Did we talk about this? Clearly and extensively. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed everything and the issue of FYROM and Turkey's issues, obviously Cyprus, with the presence of the Cypriot Foreign Minister, the energy and political issues of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is worth the National Representation, since the debate was closed down from door to door, having members, who keep in mind how we were all - or almost all - at that meeting last Tuesday. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the seriousness of the issue we are discussing requires me to say what I have to say without spins. The government majority this time, this time, has exceeded everything it has done over the past three years. In the Chamber of the Greek Parliament the range of polarist, divisional, tragedy and last analysis of self-determination governance of SYRIZA and ANEL is deplorable. You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, who in all tons have declared your intention to open forefront against corruption, have opened it up - you are supposed - only from your intentions to exclude yourself unequivocally and unequivocally. Two yards and two weights! That will be my speech today. I will record the examples of your policy. For the same issues, two standards are in contrast! Sliding policy for opponents and covert for the ‘individuals’. Here, then, is not the moral but the completely immoral advantage of this government. In particular, just last Saturday the Prime Minister said that the government and himself would insist until the end. "Light everywhere, light on everything," are his phrases, words. Mr Tsipras, of course, has omitted to make it clear that the light he speaks about is in no way about some of his own partners. When it comes to his own works, then the doctrine and the slogan go otherwise, "everything unspeakable" "in secret and violating". I would like to make another point here. In the same statement, the Prime Minister spoke of a gang of corruption. He liked the term that we used against him in the House. "Corruption alliance," he said. I want all of us to be clear on this particular thing. Only in a gang has the right to be mentioned by the Prime Minister, and it is the one he knows better than anyone here, it is his. Because the head of the gang has won him worthy and undeniably, Mr. Tsipras, a Prime Minister weak under the weight of the problems with awful, but, in the process of moral murder of his political opponents, who are incapable of overcoming his far-right partner. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, who do you think you're mocking when you say you're done with darkness? Exclude from the investigation stubbornly and unnegotiably every period, every subject, every person associated with your governance. That's exactly our difference. I'll say it next in my speech. Where we had to intervene on issues relating to ourselves, we were on a line, with a policy, 'yes to every measure that helps transparency'. But I am talking here about you, and I am talking about both standards. Let us look at other examples that confirm what I support. You are saying no today in an anonymous letter to Mr Kurubli, obviously because it is anonymous. That's right, maybe. When your representative spoke and directed to me, I gave him a signal that I agree with some of the things he says. For the anonymity, however, which ensures the hood to the false witnesses of "NOVARTIS", you had no quarrel. You are also saying today that the committee's work on the preliminary examination is not open to publicity, because that is what is supposed to be against legality. I'm asking you. In what legality, before the courtesy of NOVARTIS reaches the House, were some of you laughing about its content and making assessments? After you take the Rules of Procedure of the House, which gives the right to publicise the meetings of the Committee for Preliminary Examination and to invoke its status as quasi-judicial prosecutor, then why not go down to that conclusion? Why don't you think that D.A.'s gonna take out the hoods? Why don't you say yes to inviting the hoodmen to the pre-examination committee? Why don't you ask the public prosecutors for their protection, so that we can see the adequacy of their reasons? Why don't we have these? The name of the false witness can be erased and the contents of the prosecution order come here to see the adequacy of the reasoning. Why don't you say yes to them? What bothers you, since you're in favor of legality, to take her down? You say no to in-depth investigation, even to the issues for which there has been a limitation, and we ask you to do so. You're gonna go over there and discuss just one matter. Why infidelity leave her out? If there's no infidelity, all the rest doesn't make any sense. How is there infidelity, if you do an act, which harms the man who is supposed to bribe you? What are these things? How dare you make such claims? You think that the false witnesses should not testify before the pre-examination committee. How do you justify this, since their statements are legally invalid, and you want them all legally? The quasi-prosecutor who's the pre-examination commission can pull them off. He's got to get them out of the way. You say no to all of this. You say no to getting the hood out. You say no to everything I said. All you want this committee to do is discuss legal issues as if it were a judiciary, and it is a pre-examination committee, so that you can throw mud on the basis of its supposedly serious work. Now, then, everyone realizes that one thing you want. You want a run for demagogy and black propaganda. Two yards and two stations. Others for you and others. Another proof. The Prime Minister on 12 February in your parliamentary group presents your proposal for a preliminary examination committee, and says: Anyone who calls for limitations is shouting guilt. He says that about the rivals. Now we're going for his minister. Otherwise, the revocation of limitations shall apply to others, otherwise to his Minister. For his Minister for whom the proposal itself speaks of limitations, that's not working, it doesn't count. This does not call guilt to the Prime Minister, because this is a 'good' limitation. It is an institution that is widely used in the field of law. It is what you say 'it was fair and it was done', Mr Papatheodorou. And to me this phrase has been beaten like 'no shame'. Tell me one more thing. All this debate we are having on Mr Kourublis took place on the occasion of a reference to the non-invoicing of medicines in 2015 - the others do not concern me - which was made by Mrs Christophilopoulou, Mr Kegeroglou and I. When did we make this report? We did it when the Prime Minister from this Step, in reply to a timely question MEP on another matter - I do not remember what the Vice-President was going to be - he said that there are vicious invoices and he invoked a 2012 invoicing I had made and it was the hardest invoicing I had done. Then I asked him two topical questions, submitting all the information I had. He didn't come. That's his right. But he did not ask his minister to come in and answer, so the only possibility we had was to sue, as you say, but mention, news recording, data for the public prosecutor's review. When did we do this? In February, March and April 2017. Watch me, ladies and gentlemen. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of What does the Constitution say? That the file is coming to the House without delay. When did the file come to the House? In February 2018. Is there a reason? Sure. The reason for this is that in September 2017 the parliament had the opportunity to prosecute, and that is why there was this delay, everything coming after September 2017, so that Parliament cannot exercise its rights and claim that there is a limitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Riku did this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u79	This was done by a fraudulent abuse of the authority of a felony press, article 239b of the Criminal Code. I assure you that no one will escape the punishment for this abuse of power. Mr President, we are going unreservedly with a single criterion and measure. Transparency and good administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I recall the following: Tsohazopoulou case. We did the pre-examination committee. The reference was made from us. Then we were majority, we were government. We refer to a man of our own space. Then, as an Opposition, in the examination for the first and second memorandums you proposed, we said 'yes'. We have said 'yes' about the lending of parties and media. For health 'yes'. For ‘yes’ equipment. In exams and pre-reviews we have all said 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u80	In the ‘NOVARTIS’ ‘no’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u81	On the contrary, you have a long-term constant pursuit of political coverage of your own political events. Inquiry into the third memorandum? Oh, no. It's a good third memorial. Health review from 2015 onwards? Oh, no. Preliminary on the subject we are considering today? Oh, no. Not at all. All fugitives, escape, apparently guilt. We are a party that we have chosen to go with bright chambers even at the time of the space's self-cleaning while you darkness and hood, because you need veils that will cover your actions. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, I'm closing. It may be hard to say, but it's not fair, it's fair. The way you do it confirms that your government's charila and mechanics even exceed those of world history's most authoritarian regimes. With your refusal to investigate everything that concerns you, you prove you are also afraid through this fear is revealed that you want nothing that can harass your black propaganda. But the countries don't go forward like that. I introduced other issues. The countries don't go forward like that. If you've forgotten about this, you've forgotten all this and you've run the downhill of mamarilas and mechanics with broken brakes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last sentence. The fiery cord in which you are enclosed at this time is the fiasco of "NOVARTIS" not of the existing scandal, but the fiasco of the one you have been working on for the extermination of your opponents. It is also the scaffolding as it develops, relations with Turkey, the so-called exit from the memorial period, the cuts everywhere, the taxes and the raid, the fiery cord that every day becomes more suffocating. Within this we have the Prime Minister to report now, on February 6, about Panama Papers and his Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, to decide on 20-1-2018, to exclude Panama from tax havens. Memorandum of hypocrisy of double measures and stations, a monument of indifference, a monument of a government that comes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis, will be given the floor and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I never imagined in my political life that I would be in such a position, from the initiative of a party claiming that the DNA of its policy has the measure. Mr President, we are discussing a proposal which will be a monument to political diversion. And I'll explain. If we assume, then, that the anonymous complaint bears a burden of truth, the crime was committed, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015. Right? In 2016, where were you? You didn't get it, did you? Didn't you realize it was a big crime in 2015? Until March 2017, where were you? In 2018? Should an anonymous complaint come in 2017 to take the initiative ten days ago and refer three political opponents, why did you precede your own referral? If, in other words, there was no anonymous complaint, what would happen? And you well claim and complain - of course, about a law that you voted on - for the protected witnesses. Is he the same a protected witness with an anonymous, incoherent and irresponsible complaint that the worst convict could not support? I'll prove it. Mr President, there has been something else. For a month, the press-friendly anti-Civilisation Press - I do not want to make any descriptions - stated that this document was rejected and today, in its proposal, the Civic Opposition says that this document was in the prosecutor's messenger. So he didn't hide. So let's go to the creation of a crime. Why are we being accused? Firstly, because we did not invoke invoicing, we did not make the invoicing decision and, secondly, because we favoured Greek companies, as you call it in the complaint. Mr President, when I say that counter-population has the impression that it is aimed at hail. This is the impression that a third observer may have. Why? Until yesterday they wanted to defend themselves, they said, 'but there is no harm, the medicine is a closed budget of 2 billion'. That's the way it is. That is why we and in 2015 extended until 2018. So how was the damage now? Even no invoicing could have been done - they know but they hide it - the damage would be, Mr Treasury, if the expenditure was around 1.8 or 1.9 billion. When the expenditure reached 2.4 billion, where did you find the damage? Because you're smart people, I'm sure what you would do in 2016, if there was something like that, but you had nothing to say. Now the pre-examination came up. I hope - and I do not express intolerance, as you are saying against us - that all people will come out of this process and the political system will be rescued by this social cholera, which will erupt this story, after it has been in depth and not only of NOVARTIS, but also of other multinational companies, which have broken the place over the last ten years - and you know it - with all these parties. My friend, Mr. Loverdos, my old companion, is complaining. Let me be disproved by Mr Gregorakos and the MPs at that time, whether or not I said to him: 'Send them to the prosecutor for the parties'. I was the first to talk about a party since 2009. I was the first to talk about the theft of the multinationals and the tax evasion of the captain, Diotis, Theocharis, Sabbaidou, Venizelos. I have the evidence. So we're being accused of harming the public. So when there is a ‘clawback’, there is no damage. They're blaming me for something else, Mr. President. I really do not want to make designations, but when you and your friendly press say that with ministerial decisions Kurublis violated the law and favoured some companies - I don't know what you're saying there - I urge you to tell me where the decisions are. Bring them in. Check them out. Tell which law I have violated and what decisions I have made, because decisions are not signed by a Minister and are not published. Bring them, then, to testify and then apologise. You didn't make one either, because you know there's no offense. Mr President, I will explain why there is this madness of the New Democracy and the press friendly to me. It's a question for many people, because it happens every time and they find a chance to gather all the fires on me. They know very well what my relationship with the wider society is in the field of the centre-left, and that disturbs them. It's no accident in this life. So, together with Mr Blonde, I have taken on the most difficult and shocking course of political life in the last forty years. It was a government that was trying to claim the right to decide for this country, and the conflict was most severe and you know it. But you don't have the courage to say things by their name. I got a ministry broken up. He was resigned by the Director of the Directorate of Medicines, resigned by the President of the EOF, resigned by the presidents of the price committees. I am ordering fourteen checks on different bodies and the ones I have mentioned. I order first - and better - control over CEDEFOP. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen - I ask you in a good way - since the CCCTB was founded, has it ever been checked once for what was being heard? Once he was disembodied and retired. They stopped it. So we didn't give up. We said there was going to be an in-depth check. We've been under pressure, too. "Dew, Lord, prison; my mouth"! We've been under a lot of pressure. Let's move on and move on. To explain the madness of some journalists, I will tell you what else we have done. I never spoke until today. The mandate given to the then President, Mrs Cremastino, was not to give a single euro for the so-called 'advertising expenditure'. Whether there are invoices or they don't exist, they stop everything. You know what pressure I have received, ladies and gentlemen, from journalists and publishers for this decision. And yet neither did I nor Blondie. The same happened after the next head of the Ministry until today. Our first goal is to keep the bankrupt hospitals that you left us and not to leave home without medicine. I'm proud of it, it's the best I've offered home at the most difficult time with capital control. Do you know what happened, ladies and gentlemen, at that time? So call Mr. Ploume, a worthy and brilliant police officer who was Director of Economic Police -. Call Mr. Evangelatos, who was appointed by you in charge of the Ministry's inspection. Every day from morning to night we watch the warehouses. We had the multinationals, who were threatened with artificial flaws to throw the government down. We didn't even fear them then. I am the only Greek politician - to listen to it well - who in the governance of yours when they were creating artificial deficiencies, I did two sues. Call Mr. Doyako to tell you. On 4 June, Mr President, we are adopting two ministerial decisions. And we were in front of a dilemma. Because the D.A.'s gonna look up - and then I'm gonna explain some things - who hurt the prices on the December 23, 2014 list. We were forced at that time or to accept that - so citizens' participation would go up - or to freeze citizens' participation. So, what has happened since 2012? So take the EPOY's data, see the participation of the citizens. In 2012, 10% to 15%. It reached 20% of citizens' participation in drugs in 2013. In 2014 it reached 26%. Disprove them if you dare. Get out at the Step and disprove them as men to men and not say anything. I don't want to talk about MPs, but some people come here indiscreet. Take the evidence and deny what I say. What happened in 2015 to which you forsake us? From 26% it fell to 24%. That's what happened. And here, then, the game has been playing, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years. Of course it did not increase the pharmaceutical cost because there is the clawback, and it was well done, but the game was later. As you have increased the participation of citizens, you have reduced the burden of multinationals. That's the truth. Because you are blaming us in general and in vain, I would therefore ask you to tell us a medicine or a company that was treated in a privileged manner at the time we were. Do you know how many will be found out of the investigation? I'm not going to say now because I'm going to set out in time, because I know, because I've asked you many times about different medications that got a special privilege. What else did we do, Mr President? It will be published on 19 May and I will present this decision to Parliament. I will also testify, Mr. Dendia, and the 2014 decision. With all due respect. I'm not talking about you, Mr. Teddy. I am referring as a parliamentary representative. I shall therefore table the decision. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did the 'bad' symmetrical ministers do to abandon them? The wholesale profit of multinationals when selling directly to pharmacies, which is up to 10 million a year, was retained for twenty years. And because I am a young and honest man, I will say that Mr. Georgiadis in 2013 went to change it, but the next leadership brought it back to status. What's going on? The multinationals withdrew it. What did the Syrians do? Right now, what's going on since then? He's a resource for the EEA. Mr President, we have moved forward and changed the institutional framework, because for three years the negotiating committee has been pending and it has not been working. What does a negotiating committee mean? What you didn't do, which you put new drugs on the list, you charged the budget with 280 million without assessing their impact on the patient. We therefore set up a Trading Committee with four subcommittees, so that each medicine can be checked and negotiated, as we did with a medicine that you were waiting for, to favour a multinational company with EUR 1900 the medicine of the multinational second and third line. It was the first line of what the Greek company had, which you kept, and had the Greek industry's EUR 900. And what did we do for the first time? We sent it to the negotiation. Like the list of new medicines we received, we put it in public consultation. That's the first time this has happened. So the troika, with which we were at war most, asked for the law to be changed, for it considered that it had protective provisions. And Article 2(6) was passed in the memorandum, and in ten days we sent to the Official Journal of the Government with 7890, on 27 August - all the elements you can go to the printing press to find them - the invoicing decision. What delay was there? It was 20 days practically. See what happened with you in 2014 and retire after the next Minister. On the one hand, you say 'we didn't do', on the other hand, you say 'we do'. Confusion big. Ladies and gentlemen, in October 2016 you published the famous "black book". We have not been able to rule for a year and a half under these conditions and you have published the famous 'black book'. You know what you say there? So you say that we have destroyed the Greek pharmaceutical industry. You are now coming and adopting the anonymous complaint and you say that we favoured it, at the same time as the famous 'black book' was published. What did we do from the two things? We couldn't have done both. We either did one or the other. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great care and grief to refer to my name by Mr Venizelos. "Divine Lord, my mouth imprisoned." I'll talk sometime, not now. When the time comes, to find out that we are not afraid of them, we have no reason to fear anything. For the three of us you're leaving, you're not going to find us on any list, or "SIEMENS", that you've become the boilers for some eggs. That was your downhill. Mr. Mitsotakis, I am neither a son of Prime Minister nor a son of any economic circle. I live in the Sweet Waters, I live in the Sweet Waters. I did the same life, the same life. I told you, however, that I was from a strange string of Pontians and Acarnanas, Valtines and Xyromerites. If you want to do guerrilla, we'll do it. You will, however, be careful how you use my name. Because my face is crystalline. When I say crystal, I mean crystal. I challenge you for anything. So I respect everyone, I respect every fellow Member, but to a certain extent the complaints and the way you are trying to smash people, with an irresponsible complaint, anonymous, that said that I was Minister in 2016, so serious a complaint you adopted - which said that I made ministerial decisions that I violated the law. And so far you don't have the courage to say sorry. If you don't say sorry, unfortunately, you're slanderers. That's the truth. And you know very well where you're going. They also know in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Because I went as Minister to the informal Council of Health Ministers in Latvia and dared - and it was the first time in Europe, to a ministerial minister who did so - and I told the Europeans: 'Lords, we need to negotiate jointly the price of innovative medicines to be accessible to all citizens'. I did the same at the meeting of the World Health Organisation. Do you know what the then representative of the United Nations said to our ambassador, Mr Alexandridis? He said: "I have never heard the Minister have such a courage to say such things." That's what I told them there. Because I had a constant cooperation with both Brussels activists against the multinationals and their predicament. It is an opportunity now that this scandal has erupted, not only to have a great fine to all these gentlemen, but finally to go on supporting the production of a medicinal product in Greece. Greece has all the conditions for Switzerland to become the southern in the generic, reliable generic medicine. But they must also understand that, with intra-group transactions, they cannot grab public money. I have heard one more thing, Mr President. I am surprised to hear Mr Samaras addressing Mr. Tsipras saying: 'Mr. Tsipras, during our time there were no profits from the multinationals. There were in yours." What's that? He called Mr. Tsipras. Why? Under pressure, ours was for the first time forced to make profits and to tax the companies that had 400 million turnover a year. Have you touched them? Did you hurt them? That's the truth. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u84	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr Minister, just give me a minute to make a statement to this House. She's waiting for a school. It has more than 20 minutes. I also inform you that since the 20th minute you had been at your disposal, you have already reached twenty-five minutes. Just to be briefed to speed up. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, thirty-four students and students and two teachers, by Melikis Imathia High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, in my conscience I have the feeling of presumption of innocence, for every man who may be indicted. That's why I'm not in a hurry to talk. I hope - and I mean it - that's what I'm talking about. But not that there is no scandal, no, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not know how the elite of the medical world worked with passive bribery and nobody speaks, not because Greece, Mr President, was not the country that held most of the conferences from all over Europe, and we all know, Mr President, and how the authorizations of medicines were, because that was the big one. We have no reason to investigate them. To be explored in every direction and then each one of them will assume their own responsibilities. I believe, politically. Until then, no one can say anything about anyone. After the investigation, then again I say that everyone will assume their responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u88	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, will be given the floor, and the Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the procedures are judged by their effectiveness. Today we are choosing to use the procedure for essential reasons? Today we choose to use the procedures for the public interest? Today we choose to use procedures for a national issue? No, ladies and gentlemen. Today, under the responsibility of the three parties of power, a climate of division, a climate of disorientation, a climate of political relaxation is maintained. Today we maintain regression, bury hope and close one of the few rams, which have been opened for the regeneration of our country. Incapacitated in our egos we maintain hatred in this Chamber. The depreciation. We outweigh the country and the citizens from the right to feel proud and to have dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, on the evening of 28 February, I was reading in my colleagues' reports on the issues that I had in my parliamentary obligations, within my responsibility, trying to follow diligently, from very close, I would say. So between these pages there was a handwritten note of a partner’s red color. Next to the text which looked at the possible negative effects, which Mr Vitsa's departure may have had from his post as Deputy Minister of National Defence for the very important work he had started in his term of office. This work was and continues to be very important, as it is based on difficult cooperation, consensus and wider intergroup consents at the Ministry of National Defence and therefore we hoped that it would eventually lead to the resolution of very important problems of our officials. This note, therefore, wrote - one of my partner notes - that increased Turkish activity is expected on the grounds of the vowish Kouvelis and in order to send a Turkish "host" message to the new leadership of the Ministry. The next night on 1 March I remember seeing that it was a good sign that the neighbours did not choose to keep their good tradition, that is to say, to go ahead with provocative violations, while official, institutional and ceremonies take place in Athens. Unfortunately, however, the Turks did not just keep the tradition, they went one step further. When I read, ladies and gentlemen, the General Staff communication has been frozen. Time's frozen. As long as Mr. Kouvelis is Minister, so many hours are in prison the two Greek soldiers. We're not talking about kids. We're talking about two Greek soldiers wearing the Greek uniform! That's what we're talking about. So I ask you. Are they there because they were journalists and were disturbed by what they said, like the German? Are they there because they were pastors and their preaching disturbed the regime, like the American? Are they in prison because they are supposed to be Gülen's followers, such as thousands of other teachers, journalists and judges? Are they in the highest security prisons of Adrianopolis, because they were Kurds, because they were terrorists? Are they there because they lost their way or because they did not have sufficient training? No, ladies and gentlemen. The only reason they're in prison is why the Turks decided to send us a clear message. Indeed, their threat is clear. We either succumb to and recognise Turkey's rights to co-management in the Aegean, or at some point fatal, we will break to war. Anyone who has a responsibility and continues to wonder allegedly what Turkey is seeking is dangerous. The answer to where Turkey can arrive, where it is determined to arrive, is there in Adrianopolis prisons. There is now a single question which should concern us here today in this Chamber. If one of these children, ladies and gentlemen, was your child, what would you say today from this Step? What would you call with all your strength? What would the fathers of these two Armed Forces say if they came here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u90	Father's already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u91	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u92	He talked about wisdom and patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u93	Fathers, my dear colleague, have proudly spoken about the debt of their children. What debt are we proud of in this Chamber? That's what fathers talked about! Ladies and gentlemen, for two and a half years I have been running in offices, standing in tails, waiting in corridors, reading what I have never read in my life. I'm doing this, honestly, for the good of the Armed Forces' officers, as Head of National Defence and Foreign Affairs. How am I going tomorrow, to convince Mr. Petropoulos of the illegal detention of the long-term volunteers? How am I going to get Mr. Tsakaloto to ask him to support the effort of the Minister of National Defence for the redemption of military loans? With what soul will I ask for a meeting from Mr. Kouvelis, to find out whether he will support the effort to introduce the irreversible in thirty years or to improve the law on trade unionism? I no longer feel that I have the right to speak on behalf of our officials for any of their claims, because at the moment our officials are counting hours together with the two soldiers. Time to know - if you don't know - has frozen inside them. Turkey is attacking the first victim - the first victim! - which seeks, it's the morale of our Armed Forces. And what do we do here for so long? I don't need more time to show you how the whole Greek people feel. I really don't need more time to show you how sorry I am and how angry I am about what's going on. The Central Association gives - and it will continue to give - a great fight, a difficult and honest fight not for chairs, not for power, but for this country, for this country, for this country, for this country, for this country, for this country, for this country, for this country, for this people! As far as the agenda is concerned, therefore, I have only one comment to make as a sign of protest about the lack of seriousness in this Chamber. As a free citizen, as a freeman, I, personally, will leave and as a Parliamentary representative, I will go to find my President, Vassilis Leventis, and I will ask the whole of the Central Association to withdraw from the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u94	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks will be followed by Mr Papachristopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, from the development of the debate today, this unscrupulous, unscrupulous and awkward political diversion which the New Democracy has attempted, precisely trying to reverse the negative climate at the expense of the whole debate on the scandals in the field of health, the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and the incidental involvement of officials and political persons who have now officially opened up their investigation. So this distraction has collapsed, because all defence lines have collapsed, which New Democracy has so far used. The first line of defense was that there's no scandal, that it's a construction. Since the previous debate, this case has proved to be how ridiculous and unfounded it was. The second line of defence was that there is a scandal, but that is not about political persons. It's a drug deal story with doctors. This, too, has proved totally weak and unfounded, to defend anyone. Because they all understand that pharmaceutical companies, which have invested millions of euros, invest every year in mediation and the promotion of their products, have clearly predicted that there is political money, which is directed at those who make the game and make the rules. The third line of defense, it was the one that attempted these days that there is a scandal, and obviously there are involvements of policies that need to be explored, but you too are doing the same. That's what she told us fat with her proposal. So I think this argument is falling apart, because it is insulting the public. And what does common sense say? For years now, we have had an outbreak of lawlessness in public life, we have recorded illegal behaviour, there has been a party in the field of health and medicine, and for the first time this government has opened up for the first time with corruption, with pathogens, with distortions, with provoking demand, with waste in the health sector. It is, therefore, clearly irresponsible to give up those who have put the agenda of moralization into the health system, that they too are part of the party and part of it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, your efforts have collapsed. The two alleged basic accusations have already been answered by Panagiotis Kourublis and I think it is excellent. It was obviously impossible, it was objectively impossible in the first half of 2015, in conditions of general instability, when its pricing and architecture was negotiated with the institutions, to have a price report. As soon as the agreement was concluded, L.4336 was just passed in August, the procedure was initiated. And, of course, the price card came out after a process of technical preparation and consultation, which lasts two to three months. That's what always happens. I am surprised that colleagues in Potami have asked why they have delayed the Blonde to get the price card. The answer is, because so much is needed and why especially in this price sheet there were additional technical difficulties. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation that the EOF had to take not only the three lowest prices of on-site medicines from Europe, but it had to take all three lower off-spots and had to cross-check how many of them were generic, to put 50%, which was the first reduction of 50% in relation to the price of the original medicine. So there were peculiarities and a huge effort was made from the IFO's service mechanism and we were, in December, able to get the price card out, as all the second semester price notes come out all the years. Christmas Eves come out of the price sheets. It has been explained that there is no evidence that it is unfounded that this reference to the proposal of the New Republic is incomplete, that the pharmaceutical cost has not been reduced by the non-prices issue. It has been explained that since the first Memorandum of Understanding - and especially since 2015 - we have stable public pharmaceutical expenditure of EUR 1,945 billion. So there is no harm. The same money pays the state every year through the hospitals and the EEAS. Of course, there cannot be a reduction in public revenues, as is quite uncomplicated and misleading. Evidently the authors of the text are not aware of what they say, as if they had public revenues from the drug market. I think that this has also been the result of a sloppy and oriented communication effort to 'fly some mud','slash the waters', 'to reduce the political cost that we have suffered in the previous period'. The second point that they're insulting us is why - be careful! - in the 2016 price report, there was no appropriate reduction. There was a reduction, but it wasn't the right one. So let's say, to understand the whole world: In August 2015, in the context of the painful agreement, for the first time this government took out the cornerstone of the distortions in invoicing and compensation of medicines, which was the protection of offpatents and generic drugs, which were approved for circulation before 2012. This was a provision that the previous governments had put in place and protected the majority of the drugs in circulation from continuous revaluations. Troika has demanded that this distortion does not exist. And then, of course, we agreed, because it was precisely because we wanted to avoid a rapid and uncontrolled price dumping, which would take cheap and effective drugs out of circulation, would replace them with more expensive originals and therefore also burden the overall cost and pocket of the insured, that this gradual price reduction would take place over a period of two years, three years, by putting filters that would not allow price drops to remain on the market, in order to keep the reliable and quality medicines, which covered a very large part of the patient in particular. We have therefore stated that in each valuation the maximum reduction will be 10%. In this price package because of distortions that are now difficult to explain, it was possible - something that was clearly provided for by the law, and it was also compulsory for the Minister of Health to accept - in pharmaceutical companies to make a higher reduction than the price originally obtained by the EOF. This led to these allegedly two hundred drugs, referred to in the indictment, a reduction of around 25% to 30%, when the average price reduction in the same price sheet was 7.15%. These drugs, that is, decreased four times more than the rest of the generic. It was quite right that Mr Kourublis pointed out that in the "black book", which took place in February 2016, New Democracy stated explicitly that a dramatic horizontal reduction in generic prices is foreseen in the next price bulletin, resulting in the shrinking of the Greek pharmaceutical industry and the loss of thousands of jobs. This 'dramatic reduction' in your indictment becomes a 'unsuitable reduction'. Be serious, ladies and gentlemen, because people are watching you and you are being exposed! And do you know what the political conclusion I make from this story is? It is that when the New Democracy starts to get closer to the judiciary and the House, it traditionally sells social support, traditional social alliances, incriminates the domestic pharmaceutical industry, incriminates doctors in order to save its political flesh. That is the essence, ladies and gentlemen. And it is, in fact, a huge question of credibility for this fact, which he wants on these terms to govern. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The world laughs when he hears the argument that you are the persecutors of the pharmaceutical industry and that SYRIZA has found them with them, found them with the capital and made them the gifts. What serious citizen, what serious businessman are you talking about, about investment, about entrepreneurship, about a private market economy, about employment? You're making fun of the world because you've been in a difficult position. That is the essence of the matter. The big question, of course, which concerns the world, is that in this debate on corruption, on a party in the field of health, on transactions, it does not go as a very critical parameter or indeed a very important financial burden that the citizens have had in recent years. We therefore recognise that there is a very significant financial burden. Midwives are at 25%. It was around 10%-12% at the beginning of the crisis, with your policy measures. One euro per recipe, retail price difference, incorporation into the negative list of many classes of medicines, distortions in the compensation mechanism, etc. The world has been burdened. In 2015, it was about 25% -26% and at these levels citizens' participation in the cost of buying medicines has remained mid-term. We recognise that we have not been able to obtain a serious relief at this time. That is because it was a tough context, there were distortions, there were budgetary constraints, and they were equivalent to all reliefs. But we are proud, because during this difficult period we have made an intervention - an incision. We have ensured the universal access of uninsured citizens to prescription medicines as expensive as they are. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This, of course, has led to an overall increase in expenditure, for which you misunderstood us, when you know very well that the money paid by the state as public and EEA states was exactly the same, stable at 9.45%. That is why, in our view, next year's bet is, with a combination of interventions, to go to a gradual degression of this burden. What we are now in agreement with and studying in agreement with the pharmaceutical industry and with the institutions is to go to a perspective where we will have a minimum or zero participation, when the citizen chooses genericly, thereby ensuring and increased penetration of quality generics on the Greek market, thus ensuring public health and the sustainability of domestic industrial production, which is indeed a sector which is of high added value for the production reconstruction of the country, with exports, with jobs, etc. We said from the outset that this debate on scandals for us is not a tool to abdicate our political opponents, give them reproach and expose them to society. After all, their political responsibilities, as we have said then, are self-proof. We, above all, have done this investigation and we will continue to do so until the end, firstly, so that there is no shadow of cover and next to the political system, and secondly, that we can identify institutional deficits and shield the system. I said it last time and Mr Mavrot's point was correct. We do have an institutional advantage in the field of medicine, because these years, despite difficulties and adversities, we have managed with a package of interventions for the first time, to enter insurance margins and rules. We have a transparent pricing process by the EOF, with an excellent work of scientific capacity and with the guarantee of its administration, especially its President, Katerina Antonios, who is a person of high scientific authority, with training, moral governance, honesty and institutional credibility. Because the spirit and moral advantage of the Left also has an identity, it is represented in this country and we know it very well. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We therefore have a transparent pricing procedure. We have made five price sheets and no one has said a word, none of the conflicting and opposing business interests. We have done for the first time in the country a process of evaluating new innovative medicines, to discuss their therapeutic value and not just their costs. We've made the negotiating committee, so we can have affordable prices on expensive drugs. We have also taken international initiatives. That's what I talked about last time. We incorporate serious therapeutic protocols into the e-prescription system. We're reorganizing the scenery in the field of medical education at the medical conferences. We impose public disclosure of the financial transactions of companies with doctors, scientific companies and others involved in the drug field. So that's the truth. The drug site with these interventions to the extent that it goes ahead and is obviously fortified and shielded against the outbreaks of lawlessness and corruption. Let me finish by saying that, in fact, you are vain if you think we can get a place to set off responsibility if you think you can convince even a well-meaning citizen of this country that we are all the same. We are not all the same, and that has ideological, political, programming, collective and personal credibility. When you, ladies and gentlemen, left the world uncovered by medical care, we were the first to establish social hospitals and pharmacies and one of the first things we have done, one of the first priorities that we have undertaken, was to eliminate health poverty in the country. When you, with a plan of disorganising public care, were blocking hospitals, blocking public primary care structures, sending thousands of doctors out of the system, demolishing beds, merging, freezing recruitments, drastically subtracting the system, we raced for public care and when we took over, our first priority was to be participatory in favour of the ESS, mobilising resources - human and material - to support a system that was held up, operating, reliable thanks to the excellent work of his staff - doctors and other workers - and above all, making it accessible to all citizens, in order to stop this barbarity of the exclusion of uninsured people. So you guys covered up the party. The exact reason why we're going to investigate it and find the edges. We, this party, brought it before public life, made it a central political debate, put forward institutional procedures for investigating, controlling and performing responsibilities. This is our huge political difference. We, therefore, whether you like it or not, have the moral and programmatic advantage of moving forward in the next period and completely reforming this vicious landscape in the field of health and medicine, ensuring that the tax burdens of the citizens of this country are placed on the ground and do not go to the pockets of "the other day". Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos will be given the floor and will be followed by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paulakis. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Because I happen to be in the committee on health issues and we have already spent several months on 'ERRIKOS DUTY', then on CEDEFOP and then on medicine and NOVARTIS, I want to focus at least on specific events. I won't get tired of my assessments. Only facts I'm going to expose. I have in front of me the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, which refers to CEDEFOP and speaks of a man of corruption. I have another six-page SPS report in front of me that talks about CEDEFOP as a corruption man. I have before me all the reports from the sworn accountants who have not been allowed to investigate it for four years, who are talking about corruption. I have before me the screams of an undersecretary who had then proposed that CEDEFOP should almost change, with a special report, written! She saw and got hurt, and finally, she quit and left! Andro-corruption! Even OENGE trade unionists were talking about corruption. Above all, however, there were two prosecutors. I say again that my assessments are unnecessary. When Gregory Peponnes daring, since the Secretary-General for Transparency Giorgos Sourlas sent him a report - catapult, he did not have time to do anything. Decommissioned, upgraded. He's gone from a Corruption Attorney. Also, ask how Vassilis Floridis was cleaned up by the committee, who was ready to investigate the scandals. And when we asked a minister at that time, if he understood exactly what the CDC was, who was under his jurisdiction, see in the minutes what his answer was. No answer! I do not hide from you that by exploring the health case we could not understand what that incredible communication expenditure meant to many journalists. We couldn't explain it. Specific laws since 1995 prohibit public health issues from giving even half of the euro. And there were millions of euros left of an ERIC that wasn't in the public accountancy and went to journalists. People didn't steal them, but they did other kinds of journalism. The case of "NOVARTIS" has had to come to understand what these large sums meant to these journalists. So we learned in detail how the money was laundered then, by the journalists. I'll tell you one more thing. There were some strange deaths that we couldn't combine at the time. There was a “cayenne”, a late extortionist, but who actually spent money and another strange accident of a young man with a one-year BMW machine, brand-new, who went and brought back the then president of CEDEFOP - according to the testimony of his father and not the President - from morning to night. So he knew all the appointments and all that. The president of CEDEFOP is indicted for very heavy felonies. Oddly enough, the young motorcycle's engine got a fire without an accident! First, can I say something? We don't sue any prosecutors or anyone. We put things in, and we're talking about evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u97	You put Vaxevan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u98	If you have a problem with Vaxvanes, sue him. You know, there's no immunity. Sue him and close him in. So because you're causing me, I'm telling you he's received more than seventy complaints. Recently, convict Mrs Stournara. If you don't know, find out. But don't interrupt me. I'm talking open, I'm not hiding. I want to give some evidence with numbers. Financial position, cash in 2015, shortly before the government took over: except 940, i.e. a deficit close to 1 billion. One year after this government, people who are inhabited have a surplus of 35 million. At the end of 2017 they have 400 million surpluses. Not my appreciation. General Accounting Office of the State. Let's go down. It's very important. I'm one of those people I've only lived with on the NSA for over thirty-five years. My second home was "Evangelism". I love public health, I've dealt with it. Years have been demands that we've been asking for and seen the NSA snatching, ready to rot. I could talk to you by morning. However, I do not want to focus on the details: how the emergency departments, which are now independent, were a war zone. How airlocks became at risk of people dying. Years we've been asking Syros to be aerospace. We've been asking for incredible things for years. We saw poor people unable to pay. I used to be in Nice, giving false addresses, because there was no law to cover the poor, uninsured. And we gave the gypsies fake addresses so they wouldn't pay. Who made two and a half million Greeks, with a simple AMCA, taking medicine and going to the public hospitals? Who did it? Why didn't you do it for forty years? Can I give you any clues? Only one million uninsured with AMKA were prescribed. The drugs were worth 165 million. Yeah, he paid the public, and he did very well for these people, with zero participation in some of them. I could tell you more, and more, and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u99	Looks like you were in these parties, and you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u100	Do you want to talk, my colleague? You want to talk? I don't have a problem. I'm not letting anything fall down. I live in fifty squares, while others! Fifty-five, I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u101	You're welcome, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u102	When I'm challenged, I'll talk to you, especially me. Fifty squares I live and live with my salary. I have neither a parliamentary car nor a policeman nor I cash my parliamentary status with consortia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u103	Why are you shouting? You've been yelling before. Drop the tone of your voice. We can't afford this anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u104	I'm answering. I'm good. My right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u105	Don't interrupt underneath. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u106	Listen a little. I want to give a tangible example of how the country was governed. I'm just reading a law, and it's worth it to find out. March 2012, paragraph 7 of Article 21 of Law 4052 provides that the so-called reference medicinal products and medicinal products for serious diseases are to be covered by the insurance funds in two thirds of the Member States of the European Union or at least twelve Member States. In this respect, three dictionaries were added and the law changed and it was done as follows: it is a condition that they should be compensated 'to two thirds of the Member States of the European Union, in which they circulate or at least twelve Member States of the European Union'. The words are 'to which they are circulated'. This arrangement, in six months, changed, disappeared, left. That's how the country ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u107	Who are the ministers? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u108	Listen, the three words are gone. In the meantime, however, they were included in the positive list of medicines, which were paid an insurance price, even if they were released in two countries. That is how the party, which today renounces this government, ruled. What did Harvard Project say? That these medicines should be included in the tenth month. Did they join them? Yeah. What else did Harvard Project say about those who don't know about it? Let me tell you: 'Gilenya', a medicine that those who have multiple sclerosis, with manuscripts, were added to the list. Find a clue like that for these people and I'll accuse them now. ‘Gilenya’ cost three times over its competitive medicines. Who sued? The competitor of "PHARMA GENESIS", whose medicine entered after a year and a half, but "NOVARTIS" won. Do you want any more credibility of the witnesses? It sounds like the Think Tank of the then Prime Minister was the Guardian. I - I'm his attorney - I don't think he got any money. But what do I think? What was Papastaurou doing, advisor for international relations, getting in for the medicine, for his price? What was he doing? Do you want me to read to you the decision that the Lykurenzo signed? And, furthermore, how much did the Guardian have with Papastavros, how much with Chrysanthos Lazarides, how much with the Poette? Is that true, showing an indication? I want to remind you, 'cause I've been listening all the time for preparations and stuff. You made a law, a spurious law, Article 86, while the flood is being recorded in five years - Spyros Lappas told you before - with two changes in parliamentarians, abusing billion-dollar felonies. Shame and shame! Who made the law? Who had the paternity? Not that government. But you dug a pit, because without delay these names were going to the House, otherwise it wasn't. I now hear some theories that 'you want to cover up' etc. What does everyone say outside? Should the ministers, parliamentarians, political persons, or not go to regular justice? Should I or should I not? I say I have to. So that's what we want. And I'm saying this. They're talking about construction. What make? Seven names the FBI give them. In fact, Pikrammenos, Venizelos and Kutrumanis are not in their sevens, they are partners and they invoked it. Is it the Department of Justice of the United States, the FBI and the Securities and Market Commission? Not even a America cares about any faces. She cares that "NOVARTIS" dirtyly raises the stock and wins. We're just speaking Greek. And I am sorry to say that if American justice hadn't intervened, we probably had nothing. And the new metro is coming. It's not 370,000 bribery, it's over 75 million. Here's what Janna Papadakou says. Furthermore, because I believe that someone, trying to divert themselves - I am sorry to say so - is touching the limits of political nonsense. They should advise you unrelated people about what you're doing. You're forcing who and why? You, where 120% of GDP did you make it 180%? You, who inherited 425 million,000,000? You, where are you from the market and the unemployment rate at 28%? Do your self-criticism. I will say it and believe it: in all the parties there are honest politicians and some, for reasons of party discipline, they do not speak at this time. Clearing up, because I hear this conversation: 'Today we have the Turks', 'Let's go out of the memorials', etc., is not allowed! No, gentlemen, democracy with corruption does not exist. Ask those who invest. Warren Buffet goes and invests in Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, where there is no corruption. That's a necessary condition. If you understand it and do your self-criticism, you will not be so easily associated. I'll say something about the president of PASOK, Mrs. Gennamas. I've been very disturbed because I see that toe's been swinging too much lately. So I will tell her for a while that her husband has been late in the "ERRIKOS DON'T". So, to get to know each other, who speaks and what they say. Forgive me for the tension, but we have not come to this House to get rich. He's going to be in order. He'll dig up the landscape right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and five educational attendances from a group of Italian students. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, following the speeches by the previous ministers, it is not worth the effort to dwell on the substance of the pre-examination committee that the New Democracy has brought, with all but one, signatures of its Members. I think they have responded thoroughly and I think that the image of the House at the moment shows what 'capitalisation' was suffered by Mr Mitsotakis from Mr Samaras and Mr Georgiadis, in order to demonstrate panic, to provoke this proposal for settling. It is clear from the fact that there are six - seven Members of the New Democracy, for which an unprecedented scandal must be set up for which a committee of inquiry must be set up. Ladies and gentlemen, I know why you blame us. You are not accusing us of what you are writing in this uncomplicated text by making use of the anonymous letter. If the protected witnesses are ‘kowlmen’, the anonymous editor what is it? A german girl? You don't blame us for what they're writing in there. You don't even believe them. I'll tell you, in detail, what you're accusing us of. I'll say it in detail. Take a deep breath, sit back to your armchairs and start. You blame us for delivering hospitals with 740 million euros, we spent a terrible and terrible year in 2015, when this debt reached 935 million, in 2016 we had 35 million positive surplus, for the first time in the history of the country's health system and on 31-12-2017 we had 370 million positive surplus. You blame us for that. Secondly, you blame us for handing us over to a primary school, to which one of our predecessors, in a week he fired two and a half thousands of people, closed hundreds of structures across the country and handed this piece over, much more than before, to the private sector. You blame us, because we have already set up thirty TOMY, we have strengthened the primary level, because we have brought thirteen and a half thousand people to the health system, and it has been balanced by the cremation that your policies have caused the previous period. You blame us for deleting the uninsured debts you charged them with tax of EUR 180 million. That's why you blame us. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You blame us for having put two thousand three hundred supplementary doctors in the health system, as a direct solution, and we have issued another two thousand seven hundred sixty permanent posts so that the system can rely on its feet and develop. You blame us for having increased by EUR 55 million the financing of hospitals for the payment of newspapers and overtime, from the 297 million that we received at 355 this year, without counting about EUR 60 million, paid to colleagues, doctors and other staff, to unpaid on-calls and overtime, because these people were backing up the system in your own years of governance and you were not paying them. You are accusing us, because we have brought back and increased the allowance of a barren farmer - we pay the allowance to armed doctors - to four hundred rural doctors in the country and right now islands and mountainous areas that had to see years of doctors now have one and two doctors. I'm talking about Psara, I'm talking about Tilos, I'm talking about Gadus, I'm talking about Antikythera and about too many mountainous areas in this country. You blame us for that. You blame us, because we received a competition, which we completed in two and a half months, in October 2015, to prevent funding, and the EAW was provided with ninety ambulances, because you guys from 2007 to 2014 could not complete it, because they didn't find it in those hates, which you had put underneath. You blame us for that. But right now, these ambulances are circulating in Greece. You blame us, because within less than a year of its announcement, already a hundred percent of the forty-three ambulances of Niarche's donation have been delivered, they have gone to their places and they have strengthened the EAW fleet. You blame us, because a request from the Cycladics for for forty years, to build an aerospace station in Syros, which has been reduced to half a year, has already been made and operated a year and a half and a year and revenue has been reduced around - around, plummeting to human suffering and which you were paying for from the budgets of the EKA. You blame us for raising the EKPB budget by transferring funds from EEPOY to it, and paying 48 million debts, which you, PASOK and New Democracy have created. Its total was about 95 million and in agreement with the National Defence we will give 48 million to finish this story. There have already been 26 million. You blame us, because we have created many areas of the EAW, in many areas of the country, with the last of Thassos, strengthening the sense of security for our citizens there and all of our visitors, making a basic development measure throughout the whole process of the country, the new country we are building. You are accusing us, and you have done 'now for everything you and others' because we have kicked out the contractors from the hospitals. Seventy-seven so far. And we would have kicked them all out, if the TEC did not drop the first law, and if a number of judges did not make decisions that with what we do - which gives EUR 300 to 400 more to workers and saves 25% to 30% a year for every hospital, which does this - we undermine the profit of the private sector. You blame us for that. We know. You blame us for having saved only the 1st and 2nd Health Area around EUR 5 million from buildings rented by these services, because we were transferred to buildings that were available and licensed. That's 5 million euros. You blame us for completing the blood serological check, and where we were giving EUR 26 million, we are doing the same job as EUR 4,800,000. These are heavy charges. You blame us for giving EUR 6.5 million in 2016 from the Ministry of Health reserve. In 2017, we gave 12 million euros from the Ministry of Health reserve. In 2016 we gave EUR 4 million from the Public Investment Programme, because then we took it. In 2017, we gave 13 million euros. In 2018 we have already committed over 10 million euros of the Ministry of Health's Public Investment Programme for infrastructure projects and the purchase of new medical equipment in public hospitals. It's money that you did "collaps" in previous years: You financed some studies, you gave something one-off, you paid to people who carried from other agencies to the Ministry, etc. I know you're accusing us of this because it's another sign of governance. You blame us for the fact that, for the first time, we have legislated and applied it to enable regions from their own resources to finance such competitions, such as the EUR 40 million from the Region of Attica, from Mrs Dourou, which is coming out of the next few days, despite the rampant war that has taken place, in order not to implement this competition and, respectively, from the West Macedonia region with about 2.5 million more. Not from the NRP, but from own resources they finance and strengthen the Health System. You blame us for opening the Santorini Hospital, which was ready since 2009, but you were ready to sell it, to become a hotel and a SPA. But, at the moment, it works and has reduced the turnover of the next shop by over 60%. This is a shop, which was built by the owner of a large clinic in Athens, which was a member of the Central Committee of PASOK, which was borrowed by Mr. Lambrou from the Agricultural Fund during the period of the Stock Exchange. So he made this clinic, bought that shop down there, and every year he made huge cigarettes, because he didn't open the hospital. And we opened it and it works and it has CT and it's doing surgery and it's doing everything and it's covering the island. And you found that the one we sent now commander had - he says - vulcanizer. And you're pulling out these rotten media, which they support and which I'm going to say next to what else you're accusing us of. It is a mechanic - engineer, who had put back on opening the hospital, who knows very well all the structures in the Aegean and who goes to raise his function further. Because that's what you did. You blame us for breaking the abscess and spilling all the pussy from offshore of the Ministry of Health, which was the CDC. You blame us for that. I know. You blame us for bringing the sinful OKANA - CARBON, which you have been looking for since 2012 and has not yet finished. However, we have finished some of our findings and will go further. It can be seen from the first finding - it has emerged since 2013, but it was lost in some judicial corridors - that Mr. Loverdos decided to initiate a procedure that CCICON financed OkAN with 10 million to develop new structures and hire staff. He did not hire a man in his first invoices, for 7 million costs, there is no invoice. I don't know where they went. To avoid prosecuting then, they asked for a new conclusion and a third conclusion on the conclusion, another event to be delayed. That's why you blame us. You are accusing us of revealing the conclusion of the EEAA, which was talking about advertising expenditure on influenza and AIDS, where they took 1.5 million and 2 million, etc. on health advertising by certain companies, including Mrs Nicolopoulou - Stournara - including Mrs Nikolapoulou - Stournara, I repeat this and I will say a word more specifically about it - which should not be taken, because they should be shown free of charge because they are health messages. And the day before yesterday, Mr Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, came to tell us - as if he were speaking in hails - that his wife has paid in ten years 1,700,000 euros of taxes, that is 170,000 euros a year, that is, mixed profits of 650,000, and tells us that of what he describes in the file on 'NOVARTIS', what did he get? Two grand in one and five grand in the other. I mean, how much time did it to get those taxes out to get paid. Who are they addressing? You're blaming us for all this, of course, because we're taking it out. You blame us, because we pushed out the timeless movement of the black money there, Mr. Papademitriou, who neither of you touched PASOK nor the New Democracy, because he came and offered you his services, such as "I buy the vaccines quickly and outside public accounting". If you look at the paper, with which the Ministry of Health asked for a loan of 200m euros with signatures from the then Minister of Health and its Director through CEDEFOP, it's like the bakery card or the paper we do shopping at the supermarket. That's right. They described 200 million as beans. And it was borrowed. And they've humiliated all of this. ‘ 40 million left and they said we would eat them. And they made the modification so he could fund Okana and the rest. And which we sent him away and broke a mechanism. You blame us for revealing that there were some people who have an organic and political position with your own space and that the brother-in-law gave the groom the work of feeding the guesthouse of CEDEFOP, buying 12 euros the bill of peas, 12 euros the lentils, 12 euros the burger and 12 euros the chicken. "What you get three francs," Harry Clin once said, once and for all! You blame us for revealing this thing. [[Applause]] You blame us and you talk about "Carnish" for one thing, for the other, for cousins and relatives, who are false from above to below and we proved that twenty-three people, supposedly in the structures of CEDEFOP on the right and left, were in Mr. Georgiadis' office their overwhelming majority as his extra staff. And you're accusing us that this is from sponsorships, and in the end, it's from payment from CEDEFOP funds and the state grant, which had the rest. You are accusing us of revealing the fundy of the advertising expenditure of the CEDEFOP, for which you gave between EUR 5 and 20 million a year, which was the mechanism by which you secured the consent of the media, the period that you carried out 25% of the country's GDP, the period when you raised the unemployment to 27%, the period when you discovered the needs and rights of this society. We revealed that they were leaving the twenty-thousand like the hail, with a machine gun rate. "Give me a bar, too!" Eight hundred and nine hundred contracts a year recurring, five thousand, ten thousand for a banner, which is the biggest and has black political money. We revealed that there is a series of websites, especially from November 2014 to February 2015, which took a shuttle of money that they booked! For example, the site "www.ellinesdimarhoi.gr" got an eighty thousand. What's that? There isn't! There's a lot of other things. Or another site down in Rhodes, whose wife had it, had secretary to his grandmother -- I don't know what. He did the election, it looks, and he shut it down! Because that was political money too. You blame us for all this because we've brought it to the surface. You are accusing us of handing us over an EPPY broken down, which had 2,250,000 outstanding debts, and at the moment has less than 300,000 000. You are accusing us of creating a system which the Court of Auditors has presented, as a standard way of clearing up at a pan-European conference, of what the EEAH has done with electronic submission, of the specific physical documents, of the sampling of physical documents, of 4% - 8%, which it compensates every employee of whom he doubled - because he makes contracts with everyone, despite the resistances that exist by trade unions - so that patients do not pay first and come to take them. And now he's making full clear and since January 2016 he doesn't put a new debt. You blame us for having changed the 2014 clawback, which had become a deal there with some teachers you had and who took out the guys and that some clinics were taking 7% clawback and some others were receiving 50%. We balanced this because we make a fair distribution and fair distribution for real money services, which we manage. I know you blame us too much for all this. You blame us, because we took a system that you had thrown into Tartara, set it up on his feet and started to develop. You blame us, because we changed the procurement law and which is slowly, with difficulty and with great resistance from the organized local circuits, we move it forward and many others come out in the forum every day that passes. You have built a state, a system that, as I have said thousands of times, whatever stone you raise, underneath has snakes, scorpions, wizards and forty feet. Everyone ate. This job is done! And you blame us for revealing it. [[Applause]] You are accusing us of some of the things I have said before, but the repetition is the mother of learning - that we did not do the invoicing at the time when Kurublis was negotiating to change the architecture of the method of the price card. And we specifically say to you - and you blame us for this - that this medicine, Lucentis, with a ministerial decision, which went through the pricing decision, could be invoiced either way. In this way, the EOF says 'EUR 509', otherwise, the Minister was invoiced with the signature of the final 'EUR 780'. And then you tell us why it doesn't fall. Because 780 euros were taken after others. Others took it. And if the average is tall, it's hard to come down. We tell you in particular and you blame us for having taken care of the pharmaceutical industry. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] You blame us and we tell you in particular: On 5 June, a few days before leaving, the Minister of Agriculture signed a decision before Vorides arrived, which says that high-cost medicines will now be sold, i.e. that the drugs will be sold by 11% more expensive. Vorides catchs the job after and changes it with a layout. Wasn't that an act of infidelity because it didn't happen? Nice to meet you. You say the same about Kammenos, that is, you are using the same logic. He corrected it after that, because of the EUR 68 million it was to get EUR 65 million. They say witnesses inside that "Harvard Project" is that. It was just dated. He said ten months. In ten months it had been done with the three words that Thanasis Papachristopoulos said, "Take the drugs inside, get the honor", and once the job is done, the layout is changed again, so that no one else gets in. And you blame us for talking about all this. So, listen, whatever you're trying to kill, whatever you're doing, any calls that you make, with the concealment of my phone or my relatives' cell phones at night, no matter how much you send right and left, no matter how much you've searched in five generations horizontally and ten generations straight, you don't find us anywhere, because we don't owe us anything! Get the hammer! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Even if you start digging a tunnel from here and go to the opposite side of the earth, you will not find us in it! The ridiculousness of the proposal is seen by the fact that you also stuck me in the end. Collectively, it's the decision. Yeah, you don't say anything about me, and some people didn't say it. As for Andreas, who we were comrades and now, after two and a half years, we have become brothers and sisters, whatever Andreas does, I know what I do and what Andreas knows about it, because we do not share any violence or open up personal strategies. Whatever you do, no matter how much you look, we don't owe! Get the hammer! It seems incomprehensible, but we don't owe it to need others! So I would like to finish and dedicate you to a mandarin, which I dedicate to both Andreas and to all the partners of the government: "I do not want credit feathers, I fly with mine. That is why many envy me, my flight." Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt that it was right for the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to speak last, who also makes the proposal for the preliminary committee to be set up, and I say from the outset that I will only remain on this issue. I will not talk about other issues relating to topical and urgent subjects of major importance. I imagine they will also speak from the government and others about these issues. So today, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal from the New Democracy to set up a Preliminary Committee to investigate the crime of infidelity by three ministers of our governments is coming. I think it is now, absolutely clear to anyone following this debate, that this is really a flare - I would say - tragicly humiliating, hypocritical, insane, a diversion flare that was erased early, before its time. I think that is also obvious from what we are seeing in the Chamber. So, those who did not see the corruption trains, the submarines, the bags of political money went through and 'above', those who threaten the competent judicial officers from morning to night, are suing supposedly hooded witnesses, while they themselves have instituted this possibility in all the countries of the world and know it, those who are based on an anonymous letter, which, if you read from the beginning until the end carefully, will see that they are completely hollow and for the dates on which they are referring to the respective ministers and to the medicine that they have never released and many others, those when the pharmaceutical expenditure has taken up high and it has reached over 2% of GDP, are coming to us to be fingered and criticised for two issues. I say, ladies and gentlemen, that the real construction has been attempted in this case and I will prove to you why. I don't know who exactly arrested this idea. I cannot understand why very serious colleagues from New Democracy, from the Civic Opposition, who know how to read and know much more legally from me, but perhaps much more medically than I did, took this idea and thought, to abdicate our ministers on two issues which they considered to be unbelievable. First of all, I think it is right to repeat something, in order to make it quite clear, which everyone in this Chamber knows, and indeed, the Members of the Democratic Alliance who have spoken about their reports, the reports made by Mr Loverdes, Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Kegeroglu, and not so much about the New Democracy proposal, because they themselves recognise it in their first report. Listen to what they say: According to CSE figures, in 2015 and 2016 the pharmaceutical cost of the insurance system - that is exactly what it means, it is incomprehensible - increased over the previous years and closed to EUR 2,6 billion and EUR 2,96 billion respectively. Of course, the laws they introduced with clawback, rebate, etc. the excess amount - see what they say in their own reports - does not cause an increase in public spending, which was closed to EUR 2 billion and EUR 1,945 billion respectively. And then - and this is clear, I think, and there is no doubt about it - they also say that there is an increase in the participation of the insured. I would like to explain in a minute what exactly is going on with the involvement of the insured. The participation of insured persons is determined in two ways: One is the percentage according to the disease they pay as part of the medicines they take, and, yes, indeed, if there is an increase in the price of the medicine, there can be an increase in the share of the insured. At the same time, they also pay the retail and insurance price difference. Too many people who listen to me and where they live that, they'll understand. So it is a combination of both things and, indeed, what is more burdensome with the involvement of the insured - as the ministers have said, it is an important problem that we have in front of us and I will speak about it - that is the difference. Why is that the difference to open all the Ventalia? Because what is happening in our country, I will say, not in the pharmaceutical market, is the result of too many distortions and delays that have come to accumulate in recent years. Because the reality is that so far, we have infiltrated generic drugs close to 20%, while in other countries this involvement of generic drugs reaches very high rates, but certainly over 50% to 60%. Secondly, there is a practice which also relates to what we are discussing, that is, the scandal, which has obviously been extended to public officials, beyond political persons, since - and I would say - mentality and a posture, which is there not to write generic drugs, to send them 'to the fire abroad' and to write medicines, not to that farce. That's what it wants to be overturned. In any case, I say again that there is no harm to the public in any case. Let's go down. The second thing about which our ministers are being prosecuted is that they did not implement a 2013 law, which provided for the reduction of the price of medicines to 65% and even generic drugs. Minister Xanthos explained exactly what happened since 2015 and then what happened - particularly I would say - after the third memorandum, in relation to this matter. We have rightly negotiated this reduction not to be done in an abrupt manner. Because if it were done in an abrupt manner, ladies and gentlemen, then the prices of generic medicines - which I told you what their market penetration was, that 20% - would fall sharply. Indeed, there was a risk, not only that industries should be shut down and that people should be made redundant, but also that the risk, in particular cheap and effective drugs, should be replaced with new medicines - and we know exactly how multinational companies operate on this issue - so they should re-exploit the pharmaceutical expenditure upwards. I would therefore say that both categories or in any case calls - to be more specific, because that is how I understand the proposal for a preliminary committee - are absolutely, but absolutely, in the air. They have no basis. To go to two other issues, for which we are inhabited and to say two, three things, which I think are important. They tell us from morning to night: "When we made the decisions, in order to reduce the cost of medicine, you were screaming at all tons, so that it wouldn't happen." In November 2013 this debate was held in the House on clawback and rebate. I don't want to remind you what the situation was. Ministers themselves have described what the situation was in the public health system, in general health, and how this has evolved. But I read - and it is important - what the current Minister for Health said in this particular debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, I need a minute or two, Mr. President. I read: "MENTH: The pharmaceutical cost was really high. There was a bubble. It was 5.3 billion euros. There was a party on the drug scene. This party has a political name and we know it. And it was right that it was reduced today and it has gone to EUR 2.3 billion. What is systematically hidden - says Andreas Xanthos, the current Minister for Health - "...is that at the time the public pharmacy expenditure is reduced, private pharmaceutical expenditure is increased. This is done for many reasons.' And it explains below what this has to do with exactly what you're telling us. The fact that we did not vote for these provisions was that they were included in a comprehensive plan for the depreciation and dismantling of the public health system. I will say two more things - and I shall end, Mr President - about what the PASOK colleagues have tried to say through their reports - that is to say, our own governance has increased, he says, expenditure on the original medicines and indeed on the medicines of NOVARTIS. So they do this wicked thing. They put two columns of drug invoicing decisions. You know what they forgot? They forgot a third column that existed in between. I shall therefore present to all Members - to study it - that there has been an interim increase in expenditure, especially the 'NOVARTIS' preparations, and then, on our own behalf, it is 'one - one'. It is a response to what colleagues have said from the Democratic Alliance about how they have omitted this interim column to say that we have increased expenditure on this company's specific medicines. Mr President, I am presenting this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll say one last thing. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about the preliminary committee, I would like to tell you this: I am not a legal person. I imagine other colleagues are much more specific than me. But there was a reference to Article 263b of the Criminal Code. Do you know how this article of the Criminal Code is described? It is described as ‘Legal measures for those contributing to the disclosure of corruption’. Do you know what he says in paragraph 4? It says that if one of the perpetrators of the crimes referred to in Articles 235-261 and 390 or money laundering acts directly resulting from the specific criminal activities, he will provide evidence of the involvement of persons who are members of government or State Secretarys, who have the following predictions, obediences, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u113	If you'd like to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. I do not know exactly what the colleague who made this report meant. I don't know. But I'd say that on the basis of this report, cases like the Chohazopoulou case, for example, they found a way out and they came to the light. In any case, I will say the following for the Preliminary Committee. Listen: Many people have come to talk about this here, because that is what it seems to burn, the preliminary committee and the supposedly, says, trying to cover up and close the loop. Do you know who the bluff is? Who's the bluff? The bluff is that, if this is limited to the preliminary committee, there will be a limitation and nothing will be investigated. None of the possible offences committed will be investigated. So, in keeping with the Constitution, what we are making very specific criticism and changing it for Article 86, and the Rules of Procedure, we will find things to the end, and those who are innocent will be acquitted, those who are guilty will, of course, be judged by justice at the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mada. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the conclusion of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has been a little confused. For the declaration, my dear fellow Member, that 'we will reach it by the end' has an incompatibility with the initial position of the majority rapporteur here, who, if I understood it correctly, told us that your purpose is not to reach something either by the middle or by the end, but to return it to justice. At least I did. That's what I understood. If now with your position "we'll get to the end" you refer to Greek justice, I imagine that despite the custom SYRIZA has acquired lately, it's not your job to predetermine how and how to reach justice. I understand, then, that what you want to do is just what you generally say "will bring everything into light", which in reality only means creating noise and throwing mud into your political opponents. In such discussions - which are not party discussions or in any case, they should not be party discussions - I always try to keep the tons extremely low because, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be honest with you. I'm not happy to be here today. I am not happy to have this proposal before me, which I would like to support, as I was not at all happy last week when we discussed another proposal. I do not deplore, when evidence of procedural matters leads to the need to look at the responsibilities of colleagues, and I do not deplore, not from wrongly understood fellow Members' solidarity, but I do not deplore the fact that I understand very well what a difficult position those who are first accused, but above all how bad a message is given to society, at this juncture. But, in some cases, there is the widest, the ultimate obligation to carry out a duty. Question: New Democracy, by putting forward this proposal, which signes the whole, as was rightly noted, except for one of the parliamentary groups, is a fight against vengeance or a duty? Ladies and gentlemen, the Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is clear. It says first of all what a proposal should have. It has been said here before that this proposal does not stand up to criticism and various characterisations. What does the Rules of Procedure say? It says that it must clearly identify acts or omissions and mention the provisions. Here, does the proposal refer to specific acts - in fact, omissions - and the provisions, yes or no? Is it specifically the omission of the issue of drug prices, yes or no? Would this act lead to lowering the price of medicines, yes or no? From there on, because the answer is obvious and you will allow me not to give it, there is a defence claim. What's the defense claim? The honourable Member and the rapporteur have already said that, if I remember correctly, and at least two of the three Ministers speaking. There's no harm to the public. Why hasn't the public been damaged? Because there's the clawback. What is clawback for the people who listen and do not care much about it? It's the upper limit. He's said the public that we'll pay that much. So, from there on, it's said, whatever it's charged, does it matter, since the public will not pay for it? So, there's no harm, there's no offense. Why are you bringing in the proposal? It could be convincing, ladies and gentlemen, if it were not so wrong. The question is not only the damage of the State, it is also the benefit, and the benefit of a particular company. If the prices of a medicinal product are higher and of another is not higher, of course, the total amount is the same, but its distribution is not the same, as the payment on the part of the members of the balance is not the same. So there may be no harm, but there is a benefit. If there's a benefit, there's a question. And as long as there is illegal negligence, which creates a benefit, there is a big issue, ladies and gentlemen. We, New Democracy, do not want to end up in a judicial crisis here. It's not our job. What do you say? We say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that a document coming from a public prosecutor, which raises a number of issues. What are we calling you? We invite you to investigate these issues. And on what terms do we investigate them, ladies and gentlemen? Under the terms of your own majority. I imagine it will not escape your attention that if you agree to set up this committee, you will have the majority in this committee, not the opposition, which is tabling the proposal. And if the Opposition would want to be a timely shot, it would not bring the proposal, when you have the majority, to hold it for the moment that your arithmetic superiority will be overthrown after the next elections. This would be the opportunistic tactic of counter-revenge, the political tactic. New Democracy doesn't do that. He comes straight to you and says: Finding something, let's go look into it under your own terms. So the only thing that is judged here is your attitude towards such a proposal, ladies and gentlemen, nothing else. You will tell me: Beyond the public prosecutor's perception and the need to be sent here, in accordance with the terms of the Constitution and the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, is it completely wasteful perhaps? But here, as a member of PASOK, said, 'this report, on which the process is finally based today, we have done so', i.e. the three PASOK colleagues. On the one hand, you have protected witnesses and on the other hand you have three Members who tell you that there was an illegal act here, by name, surname, signature and petition, which they have drafted and sent. So, where does this arrogant rejection come from? What is it that gives you the moral right to say: We throw this in the can of the useless and refuse to look for it? In fact, because this is the challenge, you are doing so in the name of some of your own perception of moral superiority, which I must tell you that, as far as your administration goes, it is heading towards the end, the harder I can understand. And I would say to you, in the form of advice - because there is never collective responsibility - to be extremely careful. I am referring to the honourable Members of the Government in the arrogant statements on supremacy. "Here is an imar," the day will come. But now we're going to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Qualified Opposition, have dealt with a number of your own proposals to investigate three, four different issues. I won't name them. It's not worth it here. You remember that, and you and we. We've never been negative. We have always voted in favour of your proposals and voted in favour of them, taking the risk of our executives directly into account. Why? Because these committees would either be inquiring or pre-examination, they would be by your own parliamentary majority. Not, if you wish, with the friendly protection of the next Members of Parliament, who are being examined or charged. We have never denied our vote. On the contrary, you, whatever the matter came to plenary, have always refused. You have refused outrageous cases, such as the case of a minister speaking with a convicted barpinite, which was considered - and indeed, with a prime minister's position on it - to be normal behaviour in a European country. You refused any relationship and need to investigate the issue of the first half of 2015, for the economic collapse of the country, for the closure of the banking system, for disasters. There was nothing worth checking. A solid majority of fifty - three or fifty - two - depends - has always denied any control. And you think - here is your error - that this is beneficial. And you think this is right in Parliament. And you think that's politically good for you. The lionisations within Ethiopia, about the excellence of another type of man, as our rapporteur, Mr Tasoulas, said, do you think that they give you a prestige in society, that this is how you can proceed towards the next elections? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say again to you that I am not pleased that we are here today. I would have wished for Mr Kourublis, Mr Blonde, indirectly, Mr Polakis - because in this respect it is a different wording - that the document had not been published, that there was no reference by colleagues, that there was no public order, that I should not have had to be here in this position and that I should have developed this issue. As I would, of course, have liked you last week to have seen the case, which you sent to a pre-examination committee, because it did not have the necessary information to do so. The necessary evidence against two Prime Ministers and eight Ministers. But today we are here, for absolutely objective reasons, with a crime, which is obvious, because it concerns the issue of the issue or not of a document. From there on, all other defenders or colleagues' claims can well be made and, of course, heard. We in the New Democracy always accept the presumption of innocence. What was said in the previous procedure by the non-insurance in the Chamber at the moment, Minister for Justice, that the accused must prove they are innocent to us. We therefore hope that, in the course of this procedure, the House will show that they are completely innocent and that other events, regardless of their will, have led to the failure to issue this document. But the committee needs to be done and it needs to be voted on. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you do not understand, you do not understand, it does not matter, of course, that you are slowly penetrating - take a step further towards parliamentary arbitrariness, which may ensure survival within Ethiopia, but I assure you that it leads you to a surely electoral crash after a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured at the premises of the House of Greeks, forty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the Medros Limnos High School and the Drepandi Limnos Special Education and Training Laboratory. It's under the institution's hosting program in the House. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u118	If we do not make a mistake - and we do not - it is the third time that in plenary we are discussing health issues. The first was an examination of health issues as a whole, proposed by SYRIZA, the second "NOVARTIS" and the third, today, by the proposal of the New Democracy. We will try to make a recapitulation in this 'hard' conflict between the government, the New Democracy and the PASOK and other political forces. What are the data of this conflict? First of all, regardless of individual differences, which you may or may not have, the government with New Democracy, is one that you both accept. What's that? That health, the medicine as a whole - to speak specifically about the medicine - what is it? It's a merchandise. Yes or no? Do you all accept that, except for the JV? You accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u119	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u120	You accept it. You might say what you want. In practice what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u121	You're asking us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u122	It's a merchandise. And since you say you don't accept it, who produces this merchandise? It produces it by a socialised pharmaceutical industry and provides it publicly and free of charge to the people or to the medicine and health - and I will say it fatter - life and death are in the hands of the multinationals, but also in the hands of the multinationals, that is, the hands of capitalist property. And how does he define the production of the medicine? Based on what, what law? Based on the satisfaction of human needs or the law of profit? By the law of profit. Is there any serious here who can tell us that all the majesties, all of mankind, are working for social purposes and how they don't work for their pockets? They're working for their pockets. So do you accept this regime, yes or no? You accept it. You all accept it in practice. Because in theory, I might say I'm an astronaut, but I'm not. The following practices prove this to be the case. So the prisoner: The fight is taking place on the same stadium, so the Greek people must draw some conclusions. Secondly, the conflict, which is happening, is within the general policy - something comes out here, I said it before - who further reduced the costs of medicine. Isn't that right? And the fight starts. The whole history of the economic crisis - says SYRIZA - and in the health sector as a whole, it is not about who has the medicine for people's health and what is the tendency of the system itself increasingly - that is, privatization - but hatred and scandals. Are there any misery and scandals? Of course there are. This is an element of the operation of the system itself. So since you are all shouting - both New Democracy and the PASOK and the SYRIZA ANEL Government - tell us how public spending, state pharmacy expenditure, which was reduced by 45% - and, at the same time, increased the participation of workers by 56%. How is that possible? And that's what we have to tell the world. And people know very well what they're paying today. Thirdly, who is negotiating with whom? Look now, both of us and them, you use delusional and tricks. The New Democracy is more ideological - it is clean in this and we have nothing in it to hide or say something - it says that the engine in the health and drug sector is individual property in the means of production as a whole, it is capitalists who are the big companies, who are developing production and developing production and chasing profits, they also satisfy the needs of the people. That's a big lie! Proved. What does SYRIZA say on the other hand? That it can, given that they are holding the economy in their hands, making use of individual contradictions, making better negotiations and thus improving the level of the people, at least temporarily. But that's not the way it is. It's not like that, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u123	It's like that, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u124	That is not the case, because the trend is saying a reduction in public spending, from memoranda, etc. Are you applying it, yes or no? In fact, you're competing. 'We have reduced it...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u125	It increased 1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u126	How much has the people been involved? There's been 57% more over all these years, yes or no? He's gone. The whole world pays more. And he pays from two sides. And through the insurance funds - which are its own, they are not industrialists - and through private participation, in unprescribed, in a number of things that I do not have time to analyse. So, when you move - I will say that - on the same track, on the same train, you will necessarily follow the same direction, which says profits, profits, profits and misery for the people. So what does the JRC say? Are there scandals? Of course, there are scandals. Who says they don't exist? Well, are you surprised? What's suddenly happened to you all? Did you discover "NOVARTIS"? I don't know how to say ten more companies. Don't they all pay off all over the world, all over humanity? Isn't that a component of the system? Why are they oiling? Why do they want to spend their money? Oh, no. They're laundering to make bigger profits. So what do we say? We say that today - and in particular today - the conditions in humanity with scientific and technical development can create - and create - the possibilities for public, free medicine throughout the world to develop production technology, not on the basis of profit, but on the basis of meeting people's needs. However, this cannot be done. Why can't it happen? I'll answer you objectively. Because it is in the hands of capital, which does not care about this thing, where the criterion and motivation are the same profit. So, if it doesn't socialize, if this situation doesn't overturn, we'll experience all the rest and fight about who can give aspirin to cancer. And I say it just like that. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u127	That's ideology, it's not politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u128	Don't provoke me, Mr. Polakis. It is tragic to defend a system of barbaric, inhuman, ruthless, sloppy, who has escaped - and has escaped because he has failed historically - that you can lay rules on him. There are no rules. The more she rots, the worse it will be. It's tragic today that people die because they can't pay for their lives. It's tragic to ask for 50,000 euros from someone to have surgery in the brain. You know that. And if he doesn't give it, he'll die. That's it. I say this with a simple example, which is real. And we know that. Is it real or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u129	It's free! They don't pay anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u130	It's worse for you, because you're cynical, Mr. Brutsi. You guys are cynical. Do you know what you're saying? You say: 'What to do, die, since it doesn't have'. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u131	For a year and a half, this is not there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u133	That's the reality. And reality is barbaric. How many thousands of people die like animals from multinational corporations? Who came out of you ever to talk? How many people get miserable every day, who don't even have the slightest chance of living? How many people live in middle-aged situations? This system you are defending. And you say, "We handle it better," and others say, "We will manage it even better." To make a recapitalisation on this basis, because that's the reality: So there is a SYRIZA - ANEL proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into Health - to see what happened all these years with the waste, with the misery and everything else. For the fact that there may have been hatred, we're not in doubt. There may have been, I say. That'll prove and whoever he is, he'll go where he needs to go to jail and be convicted. What, though, is the aim of ideological and very subtle? It's the fact that we finally got here because the hate was falling. When the crisis broke, what did SYRIZA say? We said it was a crisis of the capitalist system, an overcompensation of capital, a dead end, etc. What did SYRIZA say to the people? He said the crisis is a management crisis and it was the PASOK and the New Democracy that were bad managers. If this changes, and we come, where we're good managers, then everything's gonna be fine and nice. So he's making the committee. We agree that everything should be investigated. And I'm asking you very simply: Why didn't you want it investigated by 2017? What's the matter with you? I'm not saying he's a guilty man. Why did you reject it? To give arguments to the New Democracy and come here today. Why didn't you say, “Of course, do we take it by 2017”? What's the matter with you? The NOVARTIS scandal is torn apart. I'm saying what we're talking about. What you did, you explained them. I'll just say it so people can understand. The NOVARTIS scandal is torn apart. Oh, I mean, no one knew about it. Where? Made in United States of America, in genuine Greek, like ‘SIEMENS’. Do companies get caught up, compete for the market that's 1.5 trillion and then what happens? The scandal is coming out in the forum. I mean some parentheses. The great moral power, the United States of America, the most advanced capitalist state, how does it close these cases? It says, "Give 300, 200, 100, 50 billion" and all well burned. So the scandal is tearing up and the proposal comes to the House. Who are they referring to? There are ten of them. What does the Communist Party of Greece say? He says, "Of course, there is, to investigate it." But how? And how's SYRIZA, the SYRIZA - ANEL government? He's on his way to the committee, and he's on his way to the Papantoniou situation. Looks like it's going. We say that everything will be investigated and that the committee will also look at those who are treated and called the witnesses, the hoodmen, who do not want to take off the hoods. What are you yelling at? Didn't you and PASOK vote for the law? Didn't you say that these witnesses can testify for reasons of public interest or anything else? He was terrified. And now, 'whoever pees at sea finds it in salt', to say it now with a simple people's proverb. Now it's your turn to question it. So now SYRIZA comes and goes to close this committee, since all that noise has been done and turn it back to justice. In our view, this is a great deal of regularity and we are not going to legitimize it. We put in preconditions. We voted, we went to the polls and we made a condition: that we vote on the condition that everyone will be invited to testify, even anonymous, without hoods. And let the tricks that they'll be eaten with cabbage, because if they want to be eaten, they'll be eaten whenever they want to. All right, to speak to each other with open papers and not say, 'You know, we do not have competence and we turn it into justice'. This is a trick and serves SYRIZA tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Paphie, you can finish it if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u135	Okay. The leader of our party won't talk, so give me a little room. How does New Democracy answer? With this proposal today. What's he saying? Oh, is that you? Now I'm proposing for the two Ministers and with an anonymous complaint. In fact, the anonymous complaints denounced them 15 days ago, together with PASOK, that they are unacceptable and cannot be supported. So what have we got here? We got a ball, ping pong. What was the name of the little game we used to play? "You've taken us, you've taken us Constantine flurry." And the others replied: "You took us, you took us off without the bottom." This game you play in front of the Greek people, the people from there and the people from here. And all of you, along with these tactics, what are you doing? You're slapping the real cause. And yes, New Democracy does so for ideological reasons, and SYRIZA, who even came very fresh and serves the interests of capital better, puts the basis of the scandals unavoidable and says he will manage better. So to clarify our position, we are interested in clarifying them. We have made efforts, as is well known, by participating in committees of inquiry, etc. But if you think we're going to play the role of exile in this confrontation, you're wrong! We in this political game, which wants to encroach on the people in false confrontation, that is, who best manages misery and barbarism, is not involved. And we are not going to accept in the committee the SYRIZA's tactics to shut it down and turn it back, nor in the House, of course, the vagina of the New Democracy, because it is a trick...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u136	But you voted for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u137	We voted on conditions that were serious when you said things. But we are not now going to fall into this trap, so we are not going to be involved. We'll get up and go. I'm saying it very simple. And we will call upon the people to close their ears in this false confrontation, to see how his life is constantly formed, to be rallyed, to fight against the real opponent, which is the system itself, the capitalist profit that sends him to poverty and misery, when humanity has enormous potential. 1% of the world's population owns 90% of world GDP. And this has to be overturned. The system must be revolutionaryly overthrown, with the struggle of the peoples. To conclude, I would like to say this, and thank you, Mr President, for the time: there is a lot of talk of moral advantage. First of all, to make it clear that moral people, in the sense that they are not thieves, are not crooks, etc., may exist everywhere. The moral advantage is not judged there. Politics, I mean. The moral advantage is judged by what system you serve. When you serve a system like we live today, where humanity has enormous potential, where wealth producing ones live at 100 and 200 euros, when 20% are unemployed, when they are unhappy, when they spill their blood, when millions of people are killed every day, to share energy and wealthy sources, to have geostrategic control and ultimately to keep the power of these few people through the blood, then you cannot talk about moral advantage, nor can you speak historically about some things. Why, you know, historically those who had the moral advantage did not hesitate to set up the executive excerpts, so that they would not sign. They did not hesitate to waste their lives in prison for many years, defending ideas, with all the problems and weaknesses of social liberation. So stop them and those of us and those of them for moral advantages! Moral advantage is he who defends human dignity, defends that the worker should enjoy what he produces rather than stealing his sweat. As far as we are not all the same, I have to say that no one is the same as the other, nor are the political parties themselves. But when you move on the same tracks, you say one thing or you say the other, you're basically matched by the barbarity of this system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u138	We would like to thank Mr Pafile, who was the last of the parliamentary representatives. We will move on to the political leaders and there will still be two ministers, Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr Janakopoulos, to conclude today's sitting. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMMAR Mr. Fofi Gennimata has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another preliminary committee. We do not, of course, have the illusion that it will be accepted by the government majority. You see, SYRIZA - ANEL want transparency a card. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] But the New Democracy also has a selective memory. I would stress that we have only said 'yes' to every control proposal. Under the responsibility of the government, we are again experiencing a climate of scandalology, personal attacks, poisoning public life. And the Civic Opposition, in turn, seems to be trapped in the logic of the repetition. The government is clearly trying to eliminate its political opponents. Everyone in the "mushrooms" with constructed categories, shadows and whispers everywhere, with the help of the yellow press, and at the end none, but the slander, say, is finally hovering. So I repeat it once again: we will not allow the political life of the place to be turned into a Roman arena. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR and the River]] Ladies and gentlemen, some time in this country, truths must finally be heard, a stop to cheap political theatre, the exploitation of institutional procedures for micro-political purposes. We've seen this project so many times before. From the dirty '89 to this day, it seems, unfortunately, that the sufferings of this country and of the political system have not been learned. And some insist on following the same dead-end streets, the same failed recipes: mud, slander, conspiracy. Eight years in the economic and political crisis, this country at last deserves better. Citizens have to listen, learn how to drive here. Really, when will we finally make a serious and scientifically substantiated assessment of economic policy over 20 years? Not to criminalize the political life of the place, but never to repeat the mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u140	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u141	What are you afraid of, anyway, and do you not vote in favour of our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for the whole course of the Greek economy? Why refuse to consider what happened at the place from 2001 until today? Who and what are you trying to cover, after all? I particularly address myself, because I understand the New Democracy's attitude that it wants to cover the responsibilities of its government from 2004 to 2009, which has a great responsibility for derailing the economy, but I address you to the majority Members of the majority who are fascinating that you are left-wing and indiscriminate. Why are you being allergic to the truth? Why do you not want the responsibilities of your own period to be examined? What are you afraid of? And because a lot is said in the public debate on parties' finances, listen: we propose and challenge all political parties to carry out audits by independent audit authorities and the findings are given to justice, just as we have done. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And if we do not get answers today - I am not so optimistic, I do not think we will get any consensus - you should know that our proposal will always be in front of you. So here's Rhodes! All in the light! We have nothing to fear! Prime Minister, no matter how selective you are, no matter how many times you close your eyes provokedly in your own acts and omissions, you will not be able to avoid your enormous responsibilities. The results of your policy are visible in all areas of policy. Turkey's aggression is escalating dangerously. It violates every principle of international law, ignores the principles and positions of the European Union. And with the arrest of the two soldiers, they directly question our national dignity. The two Greek soldiers should immediately return to our homeland safe. Turkey cannot use the incident as a means of pressure in our country to try to pull through the army. The government must not degrade the matter. What is not allowed at the moment is inaction. Yeah, it takes temper, but also vigilance and determination. The Macedonian government, on the other hand, is constantly provoking its statements. Not only have they made no commitment to put an end to the invasion of our country, but they are now opening issues of the Greek Constitution. In the economy, the end of the project in no way means the country's definitive and secure exit from the crisis. The commission will continue. We all know that. The Government has committed itself, as has been committed to a fourth, informal memorandum, which is not accompanied by funding. Greek citizens suffer: poverty, unemployment, extermination of taxation, new reductions in pensions, auctioning of houses, without any protection of the first home. All this creates dead ends. So one would expect that the government, which is clearly not able to deal with all these issues, would take sincere initiatives of consensus and understanding. This requires the national interest and requires common sense. But it seems that no one cares either about national interests or about common sense. You can't do that. On the contrary, what does Mr. Tsipras do? He seeks salvation through polarization, through division. You are a government that does not govern, but is systematically opposed and professionally. And that's no longer what you do from incompetence, incompetence or inexperience. It's on the basis of a plan. You can only open foreheads. But you can see it, nothing comes of you. It's all coming back, boomerang. You sink every day and more into the mud you have created yourself. So the sooner you leave, the better for Greece. Whatever the countdown is beginning. No funny remodeling will save you. You're a government on a run-in. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent, the Change Movement will support this proposal on the part concerning the report by our Members. This case must in any event be investigated. And we will pursue it, despite the ostracism that distinguishes the New Democracy and its proposal. The Qualified Opposition didn't find a word to say about its source of knowledge on the matter. For our MPs, Mr Loverdos, Mr Kegeroglou, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who first raised the issue, with reference to the then prosecutor of corruption, against the former and current political leadership of the Ministry of Health. This consensus and this new spirit of cooperation seem to be evangelizing the right of Mr Mitsotakis: Self-reliance in the monopoly of truth. I am returning to the subject, however, because the three Members of Parliament have documented the drastic reduction, before all, of public pharmaceutical expenditure and of NOVARTIS medicines, by a total of 3.1 billion a year, from 2010 to 2014, without the burden of the insured, contrary to the practice followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. But they also informed the corruption prosecutor that the responsible ministers of SYRIZA - ANEL did not comply with the law, which clearly imposed a certain number of invoices of medicines within 2015. Our complaint was last name. And it concerns the political leaderships of the Ministry of Health and during the first period of SYRIZA - ANEL and after the September 2015 elections. It is quite clear that the main ministers did not apply the law, with funny excuses, allowed some to get rich, that is, they clearly favoured multinational drug companies. But what do you think? "Come on, though, now it's okay. They are ours, we will cover them no matter what they do." Two metres and two weights, but perceptions which further despise the political life of the place in the eyes of the citizens. Political movements that expose you irreparably. You don't dare. Afraid of transparency when you do not control developments with steadfast situations. One more thing. Doesn't it really make any impression that the corruption prosecutor didn't send her report to the House without delay, but did she expect her to be integrated into the construction of the hooded witnesses and even a year late? It is obvious that the moral advantage of SYRIZA - ANEL is a slogan for naive ones. Mr. Tsipras told us the other day, trying to argue on the contrary that others are resigning for EUR 23,000 and others are doing the Chinese for EUR 23 billion. I ask and I have not received an answer: How do you feel, Mr. Tsipras, that you are sitting in the Prime Minister's chair while you have damaged the country with EUR 200 billion? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In fact, these are estimates of European officials, not our calculations. They are tactics that prove that this is not the new, but the decadent version of the old. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to refer to the previous developments in the preliminary committee on 'NOVARTIS'. The first reports by the government majority simply confirm what we mentioned in the House from this Step a few days ago, namely that there will be two, three meetings and that the file will be returned back. ‘Fake’ means preliminary, limited responsibilities, limited duration and limited liability! And I ask again SYRIZA - ANEL Members: aren't you interested in investigating this matter in depth? Aren't you interested in listening to the witnesses? Are you going to close this case in turn, seeing that it does not come out of you, but with procedures to let a dust resurrect, slandering? Ladies and gentlemen, we strongly oppose our own realistic proposal. We again call on the other parties, particularly SYRIZA and New Democracy, to support our own initiative to set up a cross-party committee to investigate the time-consuming policy that has been followed over the years, until today in the field of medicine. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR and the River]] To detect gaps and errors, to decide together on how to deal with them from now on, to act effectively. I repeat today both other proposals I made last week in the debate. The specific responsibility of NOVARTIS should be established without further delay and all legal actions at the expense of the company should be taken in order to ensure the compensation of the State. Finally, it is appropriate that the Government immediately ask the Competition Committee to examine the smooth functioning of competition in the Greek pharmaceutical market and to indicate the measures to be taken by the State. It is clear that the conditions have matured. Let us finally talk about all of us, and about the policy of the medicine, about the whole health structure, the National Health System, the EKAV, the structures that are seriously suffering at human cost yet - we have also lived for a few days before - on economic completion, on underdevelopment, on the deinvestment, on the future of the country, on our children who have left the country and on what they are preparing to leave it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced - and we are working in the Change Movement in this direction - that the country must leave behind yesterday and move forward. And he has powers to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd High School Ptolemaida (first Chamber). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point I would like to inform you of the meeting's economy, in whole, so that we all know where it will go: the Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, President Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President Tsipras, President Theodorakis, Mr Michaliokos, President Leventis, will speak and the Minister will be closed. The sitting can - with flexibility - be said - by 21.00 hours the time has expired and the ballots enter. Two political leaders won't talk. Mr Pafilis told us about Mr Koutsouba and as far as I know Mr Kammenos who, if I am not mistaken, is not abroad. So I would very much ask that the time be respected, that Members be notified - we are in the final phase of the sitting - so that some time today and no more to close the sitting. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Visual Opposition proposes to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary investigation in order to investigate any action of infidelity in the service of the Panagiotis Kouroublis, Andreas Xanthos and Paulos Polakis. This proposal - I cannot say - is well-written and it is obvious that it comes from a competent legal entity with great experience in the field of justice. But legally it's a waste and it's perfectly inconsistent. The proposal of the Officerial Response is based exclusively on protocol number 980/30-3-2017 incoming a document to the office of the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes. So let us see what this document is. It is a single page of about seven thousand pages of the litigation set up for the "NOVARTIS" scandal and has already been transmitted to Parliament. On this one and only page of seven thousand pages shows an anonymous complaint full of inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u144	What does that matter? If it was a hundred pages, would it be an important document?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u145	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u146	To interrupt me as a young man in Parliament - a great age - I take it as a lesson in democratic ethos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u147	First of all, you're not a congressman. When you become a congressman, then we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u148	Please! What happened all of a sudden? Please continue, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u149	This is an anonymous complaint, full of inaccurate ones, completely unfounded and with obvious targets, as I will then explain. Let us see, then, the anonymous complaint of its courageous author, who has nothing to do with the hooded witnesses, as some of the protected witnesses call, outweighs the credibility of the protected hooded witnesses and therefore we must take them seriously. First of all, the author of the anonymous complaint asks the prosecutor, in the huge scandal of "NOVARTIS", which shocks Greece - as he says self-determination - to add the parameter that all companies do the same. So the focus on a company alone is not going to benefit public health. It is obvious that the courageous anonymous author, who fully assumes his complaints' responsibilities, throws the ball into the platform and tries to disorientate the public prosecutor's investigation by involving other companies, so that by diffusing the responsibilities as far as possible the responsibilities of NOVARTIS. It should be noted at this point that, following the anonymous complaint, completely vaguely Greek pharmaceutical industries are being denounced and the request of multinational companies in the pharmaceutical sector to increase their share in the Greek market to the detriment of Greek companies is fully adopted. Satisfaction, however, will initially result in the shrinking of the Greek pharmaceutical industries and their disappearance eventually with disastrous consequences for patients, the health system of our country and the Greek economy. I wonder whether the New Democracy also agrees on this point of the anonymous complaint it has adopted and is costing behind multinational interests. But let us also see two other points in the anonymous complaint, not only of the unfounded, but also of the ridiculousness of the complainants in this anonymous complaint. Firstly, it refers to Panagiotis Kouroublis and to his actions or omissions for a period which was not a Minister of Health. Secondly, it refers to the Elatofen medicine, which denounces it as scandalous favor in favour of a Greek pharmaceutical industry, but which has never been released in Greece. So for it, the completely unfounded in substance, in accordance with Article 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and completely ridiculous according to the rules of the common sense, should a special parliamentary committee be set up to carry out a preliminary investigation? Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of NOVARTIS, a scandal has been paid, paid and paid desperately, but - believe me - unsuccessful efforts can appear as the construction of a scandal. I am not going to repeat what I said before you a few days ago and ask again the questions that prove the funnyness of the claims of allegedly branding. In any case, substantial answers will not be given, just some panics will be indulged in glassware, elevations, threats, graphic puffs and furious deliriums. I partially understand them. Panic is always a very bad consultant. I would like to point out, however, that threats, extortion and terrorism may be intimidated, perhaps not. The punctuality, however, of targeting innocent and unrelated persons only causes disgusting, recognizing and what comes from them. So let each intelligent Greek citizen ask the following questions: A case-file of about seven thousand pages with three protected witnesses in Greece, whose statements were taken in accordance with the current legislation which existed before the current government, with three other protected FBI witnesses in America, is a construction? A case-file with important findings from the investigations in both Greece and the United States by the FBI is a construction? Is a project a research carried out by the current prosecutor against corruption, but did it start by another prosecutor, the previous prosecutor against corruption? The previous one, in an unsuspecting time, a year ago, had said - I am self-evident again - that the NOVARTIS case is the culprit of corruption in Greece, is probably involved in the case and there have already been 28 million euros of looting already. How, though, is it possible that the entire bulky case file of seven thousand pages is a product of packaging, except for one single page, since the only page of anonymous, unfounded and inaccurate complaints? How can this anonymous complaint with the above characteristics be regarded as a serious element capable of justifying the establishment of the proposed Special Parliamentary Committee? Finally, how is it possible for some to put a stop to anonymous cocooners, namely the protected witnesses - I repeat their words - if they are staying in their statements and now unfoundedly adopt the unfounded, inaccurate, anonymous complaint? What do those public prosecutors against corruption who have agreed to take statements from people who have asked to protect their anonymity in accordance with the legislation in force?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u150	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u151	What do they have to say about the anonymous, unfounded and inaccurate complaint by those who are most anxiously seeking any formal irregularity leading to the testimony of the protected witnesses being invalidated? Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the difficult position of some. I also understand the involvement of part of the systemic form and of the electronic press. The reasons for the coexistence, of course, vary. Others have an ideological obsession with the current government. They cannot understand the fact that it became a government, they cannot understand that it was not a 'parallel', as they hoped and wished, in spite of all the adversities and dirty war that the government accepted and accepted. Finally, they cannot digest that it will remain a government for a long time even and it will be the one to relieve Greece of the bonds that others have imposed on it and some are still trying, unfortunately, to preserve them. Again, other representatives of the press are in favour of the theory of construction, because of personal or political friendship with those involved. Of course, a poor man could claim that there are even more selfish motives for a portion of the press. NOVARTIS has made huge sums of money available not only in bribes but in communication companies and journalists to buy their services. I am also aware of the attempt to degrade and falsify its overwhelming elements so far, with twists, theories and methods. A panic sample and a lack of serious and effective defense line and this. However, the investigation data remain and have started to appear in the press section that responds to its mission for valid and impartial information. I could invoke some inconvenience from what they have seen the light of publicity, but I am not going to violate the presumption of innocence to a minimum. I prefer to await the completion of the investigation of the Preliminary Committee which has already been set up and of justice. Some people who were raped to talk about construction will be unrealisticly exposed. After all I have said before, I am absolutely certain that the Chief of Staff Responsibility, whose good intentions to settle the scandal, I do not doubt, has the right information on this matter. I think it is almost certain that some, whose political future depends on the development of research, hide evidence and misinform it. Should the New Democracy also entrust other experienced and competent lawmakers, who have no interest in the outcome of the case, to study the case-file and to inform it accordingly? Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal from the Officerial Response we are debating today, which is based solely on the anonymous complaint, is in complete contrast with the New Democracy's arguments on hooded witnesses, construction and political persecution. It shows that all of this was pretextically and desperately attempted not to investigate the enormous responsibilities of some people. In line with what has been said, therefore, the proposal of the Officerial Representation to set up the Special Parliamentary Committee to investigate any criminal offence by the Ministers Panagiotis Kouroublis, Andreas Xanthos and Paulos Paulakis must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u152	The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, all Greeks are very concerned about developments in the detention adventure of our two soldiers by the Turkish authorities, and I also want from the Step of the House to express my support for both officers and their families. Their continued detention is unacceptable and is even more burdening on the already tense Greek-Turkish relations. This event proves that our time requires seriousness, responsibility, vigilance and determination. Unfortunately for our country, at this critical time, the current government does not have these features. Its management in national matters is irresponsible and precarious and aim primarily at micro-party tactics. That is what you have shown, Mr Tsipras, from the issue of Skopje to Greek-Turkish relations. I wonder if you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence are continuing today to feel satisfaction with the results of Mr Erdogan's trip to Athens a few months ago, to get to the point of a low-profile incident in Evros that it cannot be resolved immediately by mutual agreement, without tensions and complications, as has always been the case in the past. Your responsibilities are heavy. You have shown unreliability to everyone. You allowed the Minister of National Defence to serve meaningless lionisms and then you let a climate of complacentness prevail, while Turkish provocation is constantly growing. You underestimated the incident of the arrest of the two officers, as you had underestimated the provocative inoculation of the port vessel by a Turkish ship. You were absent, disappeared, for several days. Honestly I wonder: Why did all these incidents not happen in the past few years? Why is our country suddenly emphasizing us? Is this due to the fact that you have never wanted to form a sluggish national front, as all previous governments have done on national issues, a front that can consistently and decisively follow a long-term national strategy? In your economy, we paid you two useless memoirs, for charging us for many more years. In foreign policy matters, however, your weakness can have a much higher cost for the country. And you must, even too late, take all the necessary steps to return to our homeland the two men of the Armed Forces and at institutional level, Mr Tsipras, finally proceed directly to the establishment of a National Security Council, as we have proposed since 2016. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are not the only ones who have made this proposal. It has been tabled by Mr Theodorakis, about the same time that I mentioned it for the first time from this Step, and everyone accepts today that it is a necessary institutional structure, so that he does not, Mr Tsipras, each of his heads, as is unfortunately the case today with the Foreign and Defence Ministers, who have different views on a number of critical issues. Turkey must respect, in practice, the peaceful relations with its neighbours, and must not seek for reasons of acidity and confrontation. Of course, it is undeniable that Turkey in recent months has increased its provocativeness, but from this point of view I would like to send a clear message to everyone: the Greeks know how to defend our right and our national interests. We want good neighbourly relations, based on the principles of international law. We are a peaceful people, but this must not be taken by anyone as a weakness. We are not, as some others claim, a revision force. We don't claim land from anyone, but we don't negotiate inflatable Greek land. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yesterday from Rhodes, where I was to participate in the celebrations for the seventy years since the incorporation of the Dodecanese into the trunk of the mother homeland, I asked for three virtues that were always valuable to us in our busy historical path: Temperature, so we don't get carried away from moment tensions and properly weigh our long-term options. Self-confidence and confidence in our strong deterrents, but also our ability to build international alliances to defend our national interests. And the people's unity of building a savage national front, against all kinds of provocativeness. With these virtues we must go to our troubled times. Now we are going to the internal market and the subject of today's debate. My main concern as President of the New Democracy is how we will make our homeland and the lives of Greek citizens better, how we will create jobs and opportunities for all, how we will make the state a real ally of the citizen, how we support our weakest fellow people, how the country will finally move forward. But you have other priorities. Instead of turning the country into a big, ambitious construction site for tomorrow, you make it an endless and dead-end court last night. You are enclosing public life in the'slash', as you do with the 'NOVARTIS' case, but also with other cases, which, according to what the media subsidies are written by you, are already preparing them. You do not care whether this negatively affects the image of our country, investment, internal cohesion, Parliament's image and ultimately the strength of our homeland. All you want is for you to constantly produce tension and division. Only that, Mr. Tsipras, increases the political risk. It was explained by important international actors at the Delphi Conference, where many of us had the opportunity a few days ago to attend. Your strategy is, anyway, doomed to failure. As you did not tell anyone when you told us you were made of other materials, i mean rent subsidies with "photographic" provisions! And in the case of "NOVARTIS" you are hiding behind a parliamentary majority with a visible expiry date and you are not letting light down in the dark, which you have finally thrown on the case with your own choices. Why are you doing this? Do you have a stress about what's going to happen? Are you concerned about how some of the parties involved can react or what the protected witnesses might say? Are you afraid of the real facts? The rapporteurs of our party and our parliamentary representative developed in a convincing and even sober manner the need to set up a preliminary committee for the three Ministers of Health of SYRIZA - ANEL. They demonstrated their responsibilities. They referred to specific decisions and omissions that, in our assessment, have damaged the Greek state and need to be investigated. We don't rush to condemn anyone. Investigation of the case we're asking for. But the government majority has already announced that it refuses to set up the preliminary committee. As you have already refused the recommendation of each committee of inquiry, preliminary, which we have proposed, starting with the capital control and what happened to this sinful first half of 2015 and ending up with Mr. Kammenos and his talks with convicted isovites, Mr. Kammenos, who you from this step rushed once again to cover. So you have not voted for any of our proposals, despite the fact that we as a New Democracy have all voted in favour - I repeat all - of the committees proposed by the Government, for the loans of the parties, for health. Even in the case of NOVARTIS, we said that we wanted this committee to be set up. Be careful, however: to form and function until the end and reveal the whole truth. The conclusions I think are self-evident to any well-meaning citizen who is following this debate. All this time the government repeated three things: firstly, that our proposal is allegedly an attempt to disorientate from the substance of the 'NOVARTIS' case. Second, that any mistakes, scandals, omissions were made in the health field, in a magical way, all stopped on January 20, 2015. Thirdly, because you come from the left, you are supposed to have a moral advantage, which leaves you in the unavoidable. All three are awkward arguments, showing the bad position in which the government's majority has arrived. So let's take it in turn. We have asked ourselves not just to establish itself, but to reach the preliminary committee on political persons in the case of NOVARTIS by the end. We were the first to say 'all in the light'. We have warned you - and I am doing so today from this Stepma - that you do not dare to shut down the committee in the first place, but to function to the end, to shine the truth and to show the size of the preparation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Your attitude in the first days of the preliminary committee is truly pathetic. You have requested Mr Paraparapoulos with a number of alleged procedural arguments to put forward, in essence, the canvas, because the committee has to shut down and suspend its obligations in order to return the case to justice. Watch what you did, then. For one year you've been throwing mud. You said yourself, Mr Tsipras, this is the Stepma - I repeat - in February 2017 political earthquakes. Some talked about the biggest scandal of the Greek state. I will not repeat today the reasonable consideration, how they knew that. But are you coming now and what do you say about the substance? Not even the committee enters the substance of the case, but just consider the issue of its competence. How will this happen, Mr Tsipras, if it does not actually come to light, if it is not considered what offences we are talking about and when they are allegedly committed, to see whether it has or does not have competence? And how will this be done, if the witnesses finally do not come to the committee, in order to show the basis for their claims or not? But that is exactly what you want to avoid, not to examine the witnesses, even with hoods, with a corrupted voice, from another room, via Skype, or whatever you want. But you don't want the witnesses to be examined, because you're afraid that if this happens, your whole method will collapse. And that is exactly what shows that you are not interested in proving guilt that the rule of law imposes. Of course, it is enough to build suspects and a society angry and angry with the political system. This may be enough to squeeze the suspicions of your political opponents. You're not looking for evidence, you're looking for suspicions. And what you do is deeply dishonest and immoral. And all you're after all seeking is to drag this story, poison public life and try to float into a political moor. So we are not going to go downwards with the NOVARTIS case. You're going to disorientate from truth and reality. That won't pass you. The case will reach the end, whether you want it or not. And our proposal, which we are discussing today, is to respond to your own political cowardice - because it is cowardice - to exclude your own ministers from controlling your own acts and your own omissions. It is to show obvious responsibilities, which the government's majority ignores. Do not mock, Mr President and gentlemen, the Committee on NOVARTIS should be one and should look at the facts of all governments to date and our own - which we have not been afraid of and proved - but also of yours, Mr Tsipras. And because of this, of course, you did not allow it, we are asking for two preliminary committees to be set up, of course, knowing in advance what will be the result of the vote which will take place in a few hours' time from now. We ask for light to fall into the dark and insist to the end. You are the ones who are shaking the revelation of the truth and you prefer to appear to be afraid of the investigation rather than to endure it. And that says a lot about the guilt you feel. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now let's go to your second claim on each other's things. In the previous debate, Mr Tsipras, you have come to one, the truth is, different from the one we have used to and talked about political responsibilities. I note that the previous debate concerned the setting up of a preliminary committee which investigates criminal responsibilities, not political responsibilities. I imagine you knew that. But you spoke of political responsibilities while you had announced a year of developments, great revelations and reached the point of wondering whether there are political responsibilities and bad practices in the field of health. Why did you do that, Mr. Tsipras? Why didn't you have the courage, or did you not have the ability to haunt a real indictment? So since we are talking about political responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs, we are also entitled to ask: Are there or are there no political responsibilities for your actions from 2015 to 2018? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also asked you in my previous speech, but I did not get an answer: In the three years that you are ruling what exactly did you, how many checks did you do, what kind of circuits did you bounce? Why have you still not made an appeal against "NOVARTIS", to claim compensation? What other pharmaceutical companies did you check to see if there are others who are engaged in such unfair practices? You haven't done anything at all. Your claim, therefore, that we need to investigate what happened until 2015 but not until 2018, is also challenging and of course cannot be accepted, much more so when on your own days, as we had tabled the data in the previous debate, the turnover and profits of NOVARTIS, but also of other pharmaceutical companies increased, not reduced, and when - most important of all - you have done absolutely nothing to reduce provocative overregistration. I would like to focus a little on this issue, because over-registration is a time-consuming instance of corruption in the drug field and a cause for the bleeding of valuable resources from the public funds. You are well aware that we are from countries with the highest proportion of drug consumption in both the European Union and the OECD, and we are the country with the highest private expenditure on the medicine. This is at the expense of the economically weaker, the chronicly ill, the elderly. Because only - I say the self-evident thing, and I imagine that we agree on it - if the number of prescriptions is reduced, therefore the cost of the state can also be reduced by the participation of the insured, which is unreasonable today. Because, you know, for every unnecessary recipe written by a doctor who consciously overwritten, the insured, the elderly, the one suffering from a chronic illness contributes with 25% of the price of the medicine for most medicines. That's our target. What happened to your period? The number of recipes - I told you last time, Prime Minister, and I did not get an answer - increased considerably: from 5.3 million a month in 2014 we went to 6.3 million in 2016 and unfortunately the trend is growing for 2017. Not only did you house the situation, but the overregistration has exceeded every precedent. This has happened despite the fact that you have a very important tool in your hands, the information system of electronic prescribing, which has built-in tools for detecting, predicting and preventing fraud. It is, in general, one of Europe's best systems. It was implemented by previous 'bad' Memorandum governments. You, of course, also voted against this. You have received it and many of its tools are virtually inactive. I really wonder who is benefiting today from the fact that you have not fought for overregistration. All the pharmaceutical industries benefited from the increase in the number of prescriptions which partly covered the loss of revenue from lowering prices in medicines. The conclusion is clear, therefore, that some of the parties are continuing today in health at the expense of the Greek people. You have no alibi, Mr. Tsipras. You have no alibi, because you had in your hands if you had ever bothered to read it, a national strategy to combat corruption in health. I tabled it at the previous sitting. It is an integrated project, and then this project was passed, and Law No.4316/2014 which provides for - be careful! - among other things what? The obligation to make data available to doctors from pharmaceutical companies and to impose penalties on doctors who repeatedly exceed the prescription limits and who do not grant the cheapest generic. You had this strategy in your hands. You haven't done anything at all. Of course, you have succeeded in returning several sworn health officials to their service and, of course, you have managed to appoint in public hospitals vulcanizers only on the basis that they are political friends of Mr Polakis. [[Noise from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Does that bother you? That's against you! That's what you're talking about! Good for you! Rejoice your commanders!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u154	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u155	I'll come to S.H.I.E.L.D. later, don't worry. We have a lot to say about that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u156	Please, just quiet down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u157	To close with the issue of infamous responsibilities, when you understood, Mr Tsipras, that the whole method of criminal responsibility has collapsed, you have spoken of political responsibilities. But you're missing something. Political responsibilities in a democracy are credited or charged by the citizens in only one way, with elections! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I was in Rhodes yesterday, behold Rhodes, then, Mr. Tsipras. Election, if you dare, and you will get the Greek people's answer, which will yield the real political responsibilities for the 100, 150, 200 billion - too much is in any case - that you have charged the country with your own handling of the disastrous first half of 2015 and we will still pay them for too, too long! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Much is in any case, too many and unnecessarily, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u158	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u159	I now come to the question of the infamous moral advantage. Look: For us there are no moral and immoral orders. There are moral and immoral executives. In principle, therefore, there is no moral advantage on the Left, but, of course, as all citizens have understood, you are neither left-wing nor right-wing nor central. You're a policy stalker. All you care about is power and to keep it able to do anything as you did anything to conquer it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have always been, Mr. Tsipras, on the wrong side and you have always defended those practices that have ultimately damaged the place. As long as you were in the opposition, I do not remember you supporting any reform, no change, no move that had a political cost. First, you were always successful in all the bad practices of the past. As for the moral advantage, this, let me tell you that you have never had it, no matter how much you advertised it. You have proved that now in practice. Travel to Venezuela with private lifts of suspect jets, a well established competition for television licenses... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Mr. Pappas is here. He can answer what he did to these flights, and why he went to Venezuela. Don't worry, he can defend himself. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With the tolerance to smuggling cigarettes and fuels, the alliance with the "warrants" of e-game, your new intertwined allies, who have not yet had them pay taxes to make them happy and with the mediators, whom you have reinstated to the Ministry of National Defence. If you want to disprove us, things are simple. Make a bold move, Mr. Tsipras. You are voting in favour of the preliminary committee we are asking for today. After all, as Mr Denkias has said, this is being done in very good conditions for you. You've got a majority. What do you have to fear at last? So make a bold move to show that you really have nothing to hide and to help you also fall on the policy that you have followed in the field over the last three years, to do what your indicted ministers have courageously done and from here on the Step have asked for ten colleagues, political persons who have proposed and asked them to set up and operate to the end the preliminary committee that concerns them in their case. It would be a debt of yours, Mr Tsipras, to transparency and political life. Neither do you want transparency, nor do you serve democracy, Mr Tsipras. To say 'yes' today is a matter of dignity and responsibility not only for your three ministers, but also for the entire government majority. But you will not, because it is clear that you have made your decisions. You don't care about the truth. You're not interested in being responsible. You want to drag the country into a mud war, ignoring the political risk, the political risks all the players in the economy point to you. You are consciously maintaining a toxicity that strengthens political extremities, which of course does not matter to you, because with political extremities you have cooperated well in the squares of indignation and in the House when you overthrowded the Samara government. You also want to drug yourself the next day in every way, so you voted for the simple analogue, ignoring the dangers that she is suffering and completely no matter that a possible insolence will blow up all the heavy sacrifices of the Greek people in recent years. You're trying to salvage the state. You are appointed by doors and windows to the public and by controlled businesses such as ELPE, where the "archang" of the clearance Mr. Papagelopoulos appointed his son and you appointed many more friends and friends. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are putting your party officials in institutionally independent positions, such as Mr Koutedakis at Parliament's Budget Office. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Mr Voutsi, you have made a major institutional blow to what you said in Mr Kountakis' selection committee. What did Mr. Koutedakis say to us? That - beware - prefers liberalisation from political commitments and let us cost this a little more expensive. What does he care? He's gonna pay for it? Of course not! The consistent taxpayers you've dismantled them, they'll pay for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u160	Quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u161	At the same time you build "photographic" provisions on the positions of the secretaries of the Ministries, while attempting with personal responsibility Mr. Skourletis also to sing the APA and to perpetuate thousands of contractors in a direct violation of the Constitution. This amendment... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing, huh? It's like you're not shy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] The amendment you voted on yesterday is a monument to political cynicism. Political cynicism Memorial! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You weren't even in the Chamber yesterday to defend her. Perhaps somewhere inside you feel some embarrassment about what others have forced you to do. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u162	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u163	At the same time as anarchists and criminals break once again the most commercial road in Athens and many other cities - take care - for whose sake? For the sake of the defendant for attempted murder of the former Prime Minister, Mr. Papademos, who of course did the service and took him to the prison he wanted. Haven't you been told that no serious state is negotiating with terrorists? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is tragic, but the country now seems to be co-administered on critical security issues by the well-known Korydallos prison centers. These will end the next election. Some people who are threatening us with various posts know that we are neither threatened nor afraid. The rule of law will be restored, the law will be implemented and the Greeks will feel safe again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with this observation: Greeks deserve a better tomorrow and not the tension and polarization and devotion, in which you sink our country every day. Here we are a calm force, which at critical times guaranteed institutional stability and democratic normality, and we are the only political force that can guarantee prosperity, stability and security. Two years ago, a few months after I took over the presidency of the New Democracy, I invited the Greeks to sign an agreement of truth, an agreement with a responsible political body and a people who now needs more than ever the truth. He really needs her not to be afraid of the worst, but to believe that she can do the best. I turn all over Greece and ask people to treat me not as someone who flatters and is tempted to vote for it, but as someone who works hard for the interests and dreams of many, not the few, and as someone who can lead consistently and honestly a collective effort to bring the country back. I have promised that I will not give a single promise that we cannot make as a government and so we will continue until the end. Turning home, I hear stories of people who were crushed by the crisis who saw their lives change to the worst that their children said farewell when they left abroad. And those who have not yet been crushed by the crisis are suffocating within a power state, which instead of facilitating citizens, punishing them, a state that reproduces, on your own responsibility, the worst diseases of the past, while it is unable to incorporate today's and tomorrow's ideas and practices. I promise everyone we'll work hard so nobody stays behind. What today, which is the International Women's Day, is particularly concerned with women, who are unfortunately still experiencing unacceptable discrimination today, especially in the workplace. I promise equal opportunities to everyone, in a country that will finally break out of poverty, a poverty which this government has made, which is only a matter of concern to the power and the coup d'état of friends and friends. But I do, above all, promise a definitive break with yesterday, with the practices, attitudes and malicious practices that have led us to this dead end. It's time we all finally draw a line with the past and look forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd High School Ptolemaida (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President has the floor, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I do not hide from you, ladies and gentlemen, that I have been wondering all day whether it is worthwhile to come here to the House, to attend, to waste some of my precious time, and I and half the Ministerial Council, in order to find myself in a manifestly, clearly misplaced attempt to divert New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis from this proposal to set up an interrogative committee for three ministers of the government, who have occasionally remembered it since the outbreak of this great 'NOVARTIS' scandal and the litigation that has come to Parliament and which concerns ten persons, for whom we set up a pre-reasoning committee. I was wondering whether it would make sense to come here and waste our time in order to monitor the exercise of Officer Antipolitics in a cheap, communal drill diversion. But I came to listen to the Chief of Officerial Representation - I believe I ought to - and I wanted to take the floor for a few remarks. I heard this speech, seeing the faces of the officers of the Police Department, probably filled them with pessimism and sorrow, a breathtaking speech. You slept us for thirty-five minutes. Fortunately, you have brought the tons up - and this - through the text that some of you have prepared, to tell us to be ashamed of, allegedly, because we are destroying the country. I will, however, begin with the serious issues, because in your introduction, and you have started with the issues relating to our foreign policy, issues, Mr Mitsotakis, which would be a good thing to leave them out of the field of controversy in order to obtain communication benefits. I was under the impression that you have been trying to leave them out lately. But you didn't take the temptation. You came here to blame the government. Of course, I would like to tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, that I am not going to play the same role that you have just entered. I will say, however, that in fact, in recent years our region has been an area of instability, that it really changes our neighbours' attitudes qualitatively, and that needs to be considered. I will say that we do indeed have around us a wider destabilised area with warfare in the north of Ukraine, in the south of Syria for many years and earlier in Libya and, of course, with developments that are rightly concerned. You said, however, and said that this government is dealing with national issues with urgency. I would like to say to you, Mr Mitsotakis, that for three years now the country has regained its role in this fragile region as a pillar of stability and security, and that is not what we are saying here, but all the powerful leaders, who have visited the country in turn in recent years, have acknowledged it. It was made thanks to a systematic effort, with strategic and with a plan, with strategic cooperation with important countries in the region and through a policy of lasting - if you wish - an indication of goodwill on our part to our neighbours. Of course, this was expressed both by my presence three times in less than six months in Turkey, and by Greece's decisive role in the Euro-Turkish agreement to deal with the refugee crisis and of course the fact that they exist with a difficult neighbour of communication. That's how it's supposed to be. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the House that this is not the first time that tensions have arisen with our neighbours. In fact, more than twenty years ago, we had been very close to and in a conflict, in a hot episode. I would like to remind you of the fact and comparison, the comparison of the possibility that I had the next day, not of a warm incident, of course, but of a dangerous incident in the Immigration area itself, to contact the Turkish Prime Minister by telephone, in contrast and confrontation with what happened at the time when the Prime Minister was waiting for the United States of America to intervene, to thank them the other day, but after a tragic development. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that immediately afterwards, at the European Union summit, what was then reached as a decision of the European Union were conclusions, the word of which was neither more nor much to say to the two countries - look at Greece - a Member State of the European Union, and Turkey no - to resolve the differences in The Hague. Compare this with the announcement made by President Tusk on behalf of the twenty-seven that we met just before and with the sharp reference, the absolute condemnation of Turkey's provocative and violating conduct, which must respect international law in order to have a place in the European family. Compare them. I would also like to say to you, Mr Mitsotakis: in such matters it is not irresponsible. In national matters, it does not fit into irresponsibility. A few days ago your close partner, Mr. Kyranakis, came out on public television and was provoked by saying that Turkish infraction was due to the provocativeness of Greece in the Aegean Sea. I ask you: Are you adopting this view of your close associate? Is it Greece's fault of Turkey's violation of the law? And this is due to Greece's provocative attitude in the Aegean? I am waiting for your answer, because these are serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u166	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u167	Oh, he didn't say that. We all watched another show. He didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u168	Be quiet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u169	So be more serious and more responsible when you talk about national issues. I would like to close by saying on these issues that the same irresponsible attitude you held and when I had the telephone contact with the Turkish Prime Minister. You have speeded up with your official announcement to say that the Greek Prime Minister has, in this telephone communication, aimed at degrading - as if you heard the communication - did not argue with the Turkish Prime Minister about the Greekness of the Imia. A few days later, of course, when you were in Munich, you met the Turkish Prime Minister. You sat on a table where the Turkish flag only existed - the Greek flag was taken by the air, it had winds at the time in Munich - and you, of course, - did not do the lion. But I want to tell you something. I, Mr. Mitsotakis, say no more in the front and no more in the back. I, Mr Mitsotakis, said what I had to say about the unnegotiable defence of sovereign rights in front of Mr Erdogan at the Maximos Mansion. Let you also dare say the same about the occupation of Cyprus and the provocative behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u170	And he took it into consideration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u171	Don't talk. I'm talking now. Don't interrupt me. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u172	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u173	I close by saying that it really needs cooling, it takes patience, we need to weigh our steps. For one thing, I want to assure the Greek people: our sovereign rights in the Aegean are unnegotiable. The Exclusive Economic Zone and the sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the Republic of Cyprus as a Member State of the European Union, are unnegotiable. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Greece is a country that will continue to be a factor of stability and security in the region and let everyone have this in their minds. Games with Greece can't play. Greece always has the doors of dialogue for consultation and cooperation, not for games. I now come to the issues you have brought us here today. Why didn't you bring us on the national issues, as far as I'm concerned. I have a feeling, Mr Mitsotakis, that what you are actually asking us to do today is how you are trying to divert this distraction, it has - if you want - a childish logic. What do you say, in a few words? Obviously, everything we tell you is not based on criminal responsibility for your ministers. You don't believe them either. You yourself are the ones who consider, for example, hooded witnesses who have been sworn and protected, of course, under the law and you adopt an anonymous letter and even full of inaccuracies, who do not even know who is a Minister. Obviously, there is no legal basis for all the arguments you have put forward. But what do you think? You say 'We are bringing the proposal for a preliminary inquiry committee for the three Ministers'. If SYRIZA has in his name that he obviously has nothing to fear, vote 'in favour', then you will go out and say 'Here, admit their guilt. They're involved, too. They have oil too, so everyone's guilty. So no one is guilty if everyone is guilty." If we do not vote - which we have chosen to do to defend the seriousness of Parliament and the procedures - the pre-inquiry you propose, you will come out and say: 'They do not vote because they have something to hide. They don't vote because they have to protect their ministers. They don't refer theirs. They only refer to our own people." And the other thing is that we voted 'but we're the ones who voted'. What did you vote for? When did you vote for them? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I saw you sitting on the table and getting out of the Rules of Procedure - some statements. You have not even dared to reach the poll to vote, and you have announced that you want a preliminary inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u174	You do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u176	Please! Put the sentences down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u177	So, this is the childish logic to be win-win the attitude, the result, whatever attitude it may have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u178	It's Chaakalot's.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u179	It's Chakalot's, yeah, win-win. In any case, that is to say, the development of yours. But you're laughing. Why are you laughing at me? Laugh off because with this tactic you are being exposed more: First, because you are posing as you are in the Greek people yesterday, as if you have not existed before in government targets in that country, as if the governments and almost the same people who have plundered the country for decades and led it to bankruptcy, as if the people who listened to you have not understood what has happened all these years. Secondly, because the message you are sending out is that for the Black Money Party, as for the more than 400 million sea bass, the system of interlocutory, which, as far as we are concerned, we are constantly learning new coming from Germany, and I hope that this is not a construction in your view - and from 7% that went to the black funds, your party funds, a lot of scandals, the 'SIEMENS scandal' and others, for all of which the Greek people now know - it turns out you are not prepared to take on even the minimum political responsibility. And thirdly - and more importantly - you are mistaken and exposed because, like the murderer, who is constantly returning to the crime scene, you are bringing us again and again to Parliament to discuss your weak point, to discuss this party, for this remulsion, for this plundering, for these responsibilities. At first, you refused to have the scandal. Then you accepted that there is a scandal, but you refused to engage any political person. Later, you tried to terrorize righteousness and protected witnesses. You are hoping to escape by limitation procedures, which you have already arranged to institutionalise and vote, with Mr Venizelos, who was the inspiration of this infamous law, and now you are trying cheap diversions, as if people do not understand what is exactly what you are trying to do and achieve. But you made the mistake, Mr Mitsotakis, to speak once again from this one step forward on the notorious moral advantage. What exactly do you want to compare? What do you want to compare? The moral advantage of the Left vis-à-vis the abstract moral decency of the old political system, whose main expressions are you and the same persons? You made the mistake of mentioning Mr. Papagelopoulos as well. You, talk about family rule and appointments in a business that operates on private social criteria and does not appoint its lawyers. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You had appointed up to the tricegos and all the baptisms, which the county of Chania and the entire island of Crete has. And you're talking about family rule! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Except Paul's soybeans, of course. Excluded. You have made a complete mess in extending the rent allowance to extra-parliamentary ministers. The MPs have always had this and it has been extended. You voted for it, too. Mrs Antonopoulou decided to give up on her own right, because she understood that she was wrong, because she was legally entitled to receive this allowance, but, given her financial adequacy, she should not have done so. I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: Mrs Antonopoulou has been willing to resign for 23,000 euros. For the 23 billion who is the Greek State's damage to the scandal of the drug, will any of yours ever resign? Is there ever gonna be any emotiveness from a member of your party? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But of course the word eloquence I know is unknown to you. Obviously this word only exists in the left-wing vocabulary, because - not otherwise explained - the secretary of your party in litigation was arrested to speak with mafias and to receive gifts against facilities. No emotiveness! The Vice-President of your party, the principal involved - I note my words - in the NOVARTIS case, of course, refuses to resign. No emotiveness! Your Member, Mr Davakis, erupts in an unprecedented racist misconduct against one of our fellow citizens, personally exposes you and your party. No emotiveness! Ethics, Mr. Mitsotakis, is a word that obviously does not appear in your vocabulary. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yes, it's true. We are judged by the citizens, we are judged by the Greek people by other measures and by other weights, much more severely judged by us. You know what? That is the fact, which confirms the existence of the moral advantage on the Left, that our Greek people are judging by other measures and other weights. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And after all - and I close with this - Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Antonopoulou resigned and returned the 23,000 euros to the public funds. You, the 200 million loan and unscrupulous, that you took with sea loans from the banks, money from the Greek people, will you ever return them to the Greek State, or will it be forever loan and unscrupulous? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] One last thing, ladies and gentlemen. You also made the mistake of referring to Mr Polakis, who is obviously in your proposal to set up a pre-review committee - obviously there is nothing else - for one reason, because Mr Georgiadis does not love him. Mr. Mitsotakis, listen. Our friends and partners may have once been vulcanizer owners. But there were never offshore owners our partners, Mr. Mitsotakis. This is the great qualitative difference that the Greek people have understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u181	Here, Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u182	Mr Tsipras, your presence in the Greek Parliament is not a waste of time, it is your duty to institutionalise. When you are aware of this, you may be able to understand the basic distinction between the powers, which you are unfortunately so systematically in breach of, because your government has been systematically avoiding parliamentary control for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u183	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u184	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u185	Don't interfere, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u186	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u187	Please stop! Everybody, be quiet. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u188	There are your ministers who have never come to answer current questions from Members of the New Democracy. For example, I mention Mr Juliarakis, who has been postponing his presence in this Chamber fifteen times in turn. So it is your duty, Mr Tsipras, to be here to answer, answer Parliament and give those questions to the Greek people. On the question of morality, to which you referred once again, Mr Tsipras, I was not trained in the amphitheatres of student controversy. I do not think I need to raise the tons to attract the easy applause. You are very experienced in this, but that also makes you highly predictable, because every time you talk about the infamous issues of moral advantage, you repeat the same and the same quantifiable arguments to autistically provoke the same reaction of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u189	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u190	Mr Tsipras, I will not accept any suggestions at all, either in my style or in the way in which I articulate my parliamentary speech. Answer, if you can, my arguments. So I start with foreign policy issues. Mr. Tsipras, your job is not to make findings and to tell us that there is indeed a intensity of the escalation of Turkish provocativeness in the past few months in the Aegean. Everyone knows that, Mr Tsipras. The question is what you are doing about it, how you are preparing to face a geopolitical reality, which is clearly different from the one we have seen as a country in recent decades, if you have the desire and the opportunity to build a national consensus front against this Turkish challenge, if you have the sincere willingness to talk to opposition parties about how we really can formulate a single reason and sum up forces in this effort. You don't. And you didn't do it on no chance. And you rushed to blame me for having described you as a matter of urgency in the handling of foreign policy issues. I repeat, Mr Tsipras, the designation. You're preoccupied. And the way you handled the issue of the name of Skopje hides both diligent and small-party mood. Because from the first moment you have had the opportunity to involve the opposition parties. You didn't. You spoke first with the Skopje Prime Minister and then you spoke with the opposition parties. You have consciously divided the Greek people. You accused and photographed all our fellow citizens, who demonstrated their sensitivity to the issue of Macedonia for their own reasons. You described them as about all right-wing, as fascists, as graphics. You presented them as a mob. These are the words you yourself used. We have told you at the first moment why you are entering this debate without having ensured the minimum necessary for a commonly accepted solution, which is no other than a change in the constitution. You mocked us first, and then you came to our line. For Mr Zafe to come now with a great deal of courage to ask for the change of the Greek constitution as a response to what we told him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have been preoccupied, Mr Tsipras, and you remain vigilant in these matters. And since we have this living dialogue in Parliament, and I imagine that you will take the floor again to answer me, I would like once again your answer to the major institutional issue that I raised and which concerns the setting up of a National Security Council, which can be an institutional tool that ensures cross-party continuity and enables the government quickly and effectively to make critical decisions. Mr Tsipras, do you think it is a serious picture of a government in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs disagrees with the Minister of Defence on a key national issue? We are not talking here about a minor issue. We are talking about a major foreign policy issue. When the Minister of National Defence along with the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be at the next summit with you in NATO and will sit next door - who will express the official position of the Hellenic Republic? So the truth, Mr Tsipras, is that today when you are talking to the Skopje Prime Minister, you are not speaking as the head of a parliamentary majority, you are talking as Head of SYRIZA, because the party that gives you the parliamentary majority, the ANELs, has a different position on this crucial issue. But you say, but Mr Kammenos says and you are trying to convince us that this is a picture of a serious government. It is not a picture of a serious government, Mr Tsipras, and you have a personal responsibility for this, because you choose, as you have chosen in the past, to associate yourself with one person - I am concerned that once again he is absent, as he was absent throughout all the developments - with which he does not unite you with anything ideologically, only love for authority and chair. What do you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who now invoke the moral advantage of the Left, with a populist, right-wing right-wing, dare I say in some aspects of the form? One thing you have in common: Ethnicism, the easy simplification of all the analyses and those that united you in the squares of indignation when you claimed authority. Mr. Tsipras, I'm not saying other things to the opposition and other things to the government. You, who are now rushing to demand NATO support, how much credibility do you have when you asked for NATO to leave the country, the dissolution of NATO, when you were in opposition? Do you think anyone takes you seriously? And you come and tell us here that the geopolitical role of the country has been upgraded? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're talking to us about channels of communication. Indeed, it is important to have channels of communication, either through diplomatic services, but also the possibility of one Prime Minister raising the phone and speaking with the other Prime Minister or with the other President. It is not enough, however, for there to be a'red' telephone which technically facilitates communication. There must also be trust. And I'm afraid, Mr. Tsipras, that this confidence has been broken down. And it has been devastated by a previous telephone conversation you had with Mr Erdogan on the day after the arrival of the eight Turkish officers in Greece, in which we never knew exactly what you said. We've only heard one version. We have heard the Turkish President, who openly told us - and you have never disproved it, and I would ask you to do so now - that you have promised him that you will return the officers as soon as possible. So your official version of this conversation has not been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, please shorten and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Voutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u193	No secondarys are foreseen. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u194	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u195	Please, on this subject, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u196	It's okay. Besides, we have time margins. Since there is this channel of communication, why didn't you use it now, Mr. Tsipras? Have you called on the Turkish Prime Minister, the Turkish President, to express your indignation that two Greek officers are currently being held in high security prisons for a common incident of entry in Turkey, one which you know very well that in the past it was resolved at service level? So since you are judging, Mr Tsipras, that there is such a possibility of communication, take advantage of this communication channel this time, so that the two officers return as soon as possible to Greece, as Turkey should do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And don't criticise us by telling us that after the telephone conversation with Mr. Yildirim, we pointed out that you didn't give rise to the reality that the Imias are Greek. There was no one in your press release. So if you want to criticise someone, you must put it to your partners, to those who, in any case, interpret what you have said with Mr Yildirim and publish the corresponding press releases. I'm closing up with the question of your interventions on health issues. Look, Mr. Tsipras, things are very simple. Our fellow citizens who are attending today's sitting will remember some simple things. The first simple thing to remember is that you say 'no' in setting up a preliminary committee, because you want to cover the things of your own ministers when we said 'yes' to all the committees that you have proposed. That is the first thing our fellow citizens will remember in this debate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second thing you will remember is that you will do everything in your power not to investigate the preliminary committee, which was already set up, the whole truth of the ten persons you chose to involve in this case. And I would like your opinion, Mr Tsipras, and your public position: must the preliminary committee invite the three protected witnesses to come to testify with or without a hood? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please answer me since you're ready to take the floor. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u197	He's not in charge of answering. The preliminary committee will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u198	Oh, he's not in charge. When he was throwing mud out of this Step, he was fine with it, wasn't he? Now he's not in charge! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, since we're not getting the case out of here, let's go get our tails out of here and talk about political responsibilities. No, that's not the case, Mr. Tsipras. So this preliminary committee has been done. You must reply publicly to the Greek Parliament if you believe whether or not the three protected witnesses should be called, so that they can facilitate the committee itself in its own task. I'm closing down with one last reference to issues of moral advantage. Mr. Tsipras, we are no longer in 2015, nor in 2014. I would like to acknowledge that in fact when you were privatising the streets of easy anger with a surplus of populism, you had a backing when you were talking about the old political system. In fact, you have never ruled, although in many of the sins of post-multiple you have been partners. I never remember you complaining about any fundamental public assembly reform when it was done. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't remember you complaining about limiting the cost of medicine. And, of course, I did not hear you say a word today. You have tried to cover Mr Papaggiopoulou, but you have not said a word about the shameful amendment which essentially promotes the permanentisation of contractors in breach of the Constitution, and, of course, announcing the Presidential Decree of 164, which lays down those strict conditions for permanent contractors. So you who are building today when we are talking about a new party army, you who are closing the eye in simulations, you who wanted to grant channel permits to your various friends with the guarantee of pastures, you cannot speak of any moral advantage anymore! Your moral advantage has been burned within the three years of your own governance. You can no longer talk about these issues. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'd really advise you not to go, Mr. Tsipras, to elections with a trigger on your main menu. Do you know why? Because this is the absolute indication of your weakness. It is the most passive proof that the success story you build and which you present in the international fora they invite you, you don't believe it either. You don't believe it, because it just doesn't exist. There is no success story, there is no sustainable recovery of the economy, no investment, no clear exit from the memoranda, because you have already loaded us two memoranda with 5 billion additional measures. So all this has collapsed. But try at least to keep the political dialogue at the level it suits. There is no doubt, however, and you know it too. Third chance the Greek people will not give you. And after the next elections on these benches you will, as you deserve, be seated in the way you have been in all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u200	I will only speak two minutes, Mr President, at least I will try. Thank you, Mr Mitsotakis, for at least you have the advantage of sitting in these chairs. Mr. Samaras anticipates that I'm going to be in the Koridal after the elections! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You are indeed a large and you give us the opportunity to sit in the chairs of the counterpopulation! Well, don't worry. Because the elections will take place on time, on the date set by the Constitution in September 2019, and until then there will be no scandal. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There will be concrete evidence and the investigation will be completed. And the innocent will be innocent and the guilty will pay their responsibilities, Mr. Mitsotakis. There's still a lot of time ahead. I would like to reply very briefly to one of the issues you raised. First of all, you say that I am not coming to the House. Tell anyone else. The previous Prime Minister was only in Parliament to make a speech in the budget. I'm always here. There was hardly a time when you'd been here and never heard of you. I'm always here. I answer all the questions from the Chiefs, which have been made to me. And of course I will agree with you. If there are Ministers whose deserved programme or the need to be abroad forces them on many occasions not to come, it is wrong and must be corrected. I come now - not for a long time, very soon I will give two, three answers - to national issues. Firstly, you raised the matter of setting up a National Security Council. Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm open to talk if you want. It is, however, an assumption which cannot be made - if you like - either in a period of tension or as a communication proposal. I am open, however, if you want to discuss it, as I have always been open to you personally, whenever necessary, on critical national issues. You blame me for meeting with the Prime Minister of Skopje first, and then I met the political leader. I don't understand why you blame me for that. Mr Papandreou had done if not tens, but six to seven informal meetings - as I did - with the then Prime Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia who did not want a solution. And he didn't inform any political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u201	He didn't bring a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u202	But I didn't bring a solution either. And if I hadn't had any more to bring you in, our meeting wouldn't have made any sense. What we need to see here, however, is: I, Mr Mitsotakis, have not changed my position. Until the extreme right wing within your party has prevailed - you blame us for working with the extreme right, but the extreme right is in your party - and until I can see that you have changed your mind, I felt that the national line is the line that has been formulated many in this Chamber and by previous governments, but also the one I have made in the government's programming statements. So, what's this line? That we seek a solution to the critical, the major issue of the name of the neighbouring country with two basic conditions: a complex name Erga omnes. And 'erga omnes' obviously means that it cannot be erga omnes only for external use, but also internally, i.e. change of constitutional name. That is why, Mr Mitsotakis, I would refer you to the interview I gave to the authorities in Genaris, long before I met the Prime Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, where I am referring in detail to this condition. I, therefore, have not changed my position or changed my line or changed the national position so far. You suddenly changed your mind and while you were inclined to state that the condition that you and I wanted is what we all knew so far, that is, a complex name, you suddenly started talking when you saw some protesters in the streets, that we could not accept a name that offends us. Suddenly, then, you're the one who changed your position and not us, not me. And I come to the two Greek soldiers who, in a normal - you rightly said - had a border incident found for a number of dozens of metres on the other side and were arrested and found today in a process that we want to believe is a procedure provided for by the neighbour's judiciary and are in custody. So everything you have said demonstrates exactly what I said to you, your own destiny. Mr. Mitsotakis, the Turkish Prime Minister or the Turkish President, I will call him on the phone when I judge, in consultation with the leadership of the army, that this telephone communication will have a substantial effect and will not make things worse. And it is irresponsible of you - I know of course that you do not have a written speech, but it is irresponsible - to go out to the Greek Parliament to resign the Prime Minister because he has not done so yet. It is topical, because I am not in any mood, and I will not do so first of all to highlight a common, cross-border incident on a major diplomatic issue, which may perhaps get us into adventures. So be serious, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I now come to some other things you have said. Mr Mitsotakis, you have asked whether we have credibility in the European Union and NATO and what kind of credibility we can have in NATO. Since you've often met lately with the American ambassador, ask him to answer you, he's your friend. So you do not have to come here to the House and go against the government and the Prime Minister on such crucial matters and talk about a government unreliable to deal with matters. Because basically when you say that, you are talking about a country unreliable at a critical moment. Is that the sense of responsibility and understanding you want? I am open, I repeat, in these crucial issues to have a lasting and open channel of communication with you and all the political leaders. But this is where we need a position of responsibility, responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis. And I close very briefly with the issues you have raised and asked me. With regard to the question of which witnesses the preliminary committee will be calling and how the preliminary committee will decide and what decision it will take, I would like to tell you something, which I think will also be confirmed by the lawyers who are in the chairs of the Vice-President: the only person responsible for judging and whether there are signs within their duties, which should lead to the expiry of the depreciation deadline or not, if on the basis of the law on the liability of ministers, the ten or one of the ten Member States should be referred to a Special Court, or whether the committee itself is unreserved to judge on the basis of the Law on the responsibility of Ministers and the Constitution, is the committee and that is why we have set it up. It would be inappropriate, wrong, irresponsible for the Prime Minister here at this time to speed up prejudicing and the committee's competence or not and who the committee will decide whether to call or not to call as witnesses. However, I would like to assure you that you do not worry, because these three 'gullars' in you, but protected people who have a name and surname, are already in justice, which I hope you will trust, as we do. Justice has their statements, if necessary they will be examined again, and you must be confident that their credibility will be judged by justice and not by us here in a simple vote. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that Mr Mitsotakis, you said that the Left also has a participatory role to play in the crime committed in post-collection. I note that you do have an obsession to equate the Left to responsibilities that he has never had in this place. I would remind you of what you have said a long time ago that the uterus of terrorism in this place only comes from the left and just a few days ago, six, perhaps even more, were arrested by the extreme right terrorists who were preparing terrorist attacks and you did not find the courage to say 'I made a mistake'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This obsession to attack the Left destroys your every effort, praiseworthy indeed, to present yourself as a politician of the middle and centred space. You have taken the hegemony into the party the extreme right and you are ultimately not in the middle space, you are about to be a liberal. The reality is that you are also an extreme right-wing politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the High School of Parga. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I very much ask the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, to take the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that Mr Tsipras finds ways to surprise us. Today he tried to cover with some crowns the gap left by Mr. Kammenos's absence from the Chamber. And with a delay - and correct me if I'm wrong - we learned that SYRIZA considers Greece's behaviour to be endearic in 1996. It's the nationalists' agenda in a new SYRIZA - ANEL version. And I would really like to ask Mr Tsipras what is worse: thank you to Simitis the allies, or thank Mr Trump to the Greek Prime Minister for his simplicity in the war expenditure? I remind you it was $2.4 billion a visit. [[Applause from the river wing]] So I will necessarily begin with the big external issues, and of course I will be in the rule of time. I asked everyone yesterday to make an effort to separate the major external issues from internal political conflicts. The mature opponents are opposed, but also coexist. And especially in national matters, we say in patriotic matters, they are opposed, but they are finally in agreement. That is why we have asked the President of this House to give priority to this House to the proposal for a law, which we have been doing since December 2016 for the creation of a National Security Council, an initiative that most parties have taken positively. The Council should be assisted by a permanent staff of human diplomats, military and experts, selected completely meritfully. It is a mistake that Mr. Tsipras says it is late now and that it will be seen as a communal trick. I think it is a mature moment and we must now move on to the establishment of a National Security Council. The country needs a single strategy that will be adapted whenever conditions so require. And strategy - let me, ladies and gentlemen - on national issues the country does not. Because this is where the government is split. Unless you mean that the same things are being done by people, who are at SYRIZA, who are working on foreign policy, and the ANELs, who are working on foreign policy. So the country has a foreign-policy-shaped government and there is no plan. The fragmentary movements in the chessboard of national subjects may make careers, serve party purposes, but do not help the place. I will not say any more today on this matter. I will not speak - because there is this chapter too - about the failures and mistakes of the government in Evros, because all of us first want the two soldiers to return to their families. However, the intensity created by Erdogan in Evros, in the Aegean Sea, in Cyprus requires a calm patriotic response, and the country is not prepared for it, with a view, of course, to having a understanding and a good neighbourline, because that is what we are seeking. Now we are going to the New Democracy proposal for a pre-examination committee for Mr Blonde, Mr Polakis and Mr Kurubli. We have also talked about Mr Kurublés in the debate on Novartis. You excluded him from control and try to protect him in every way. And again, why is Mr. Frouzi's appointments with some politicians - political opponents of the government - a sign of guilt, while Mr. Kurublis' appointment at a Constitutional Hotel is innocent and above all suspicion? Why, Mr Kurubili - and you did not answer today - did you not make a price report in 2015? What are your answers? Unless we consider that Mr Kurublis is innocent, because these tweets of the ports are being said. Because it is another negative performance of the party state, making the port take a stand on a political conflict. For the waste of pharmaceutical expenditure, we talked about it in detail twenty days ago. I'll say it again, SYRIZA colleagues. You have never resisted scandals in the field of medicine and health. You have never supported, even in fact, the reduction of waste and the control of pharmaceutical expenditure. On the contrary, you continuously closed your eyes to guilds and to all those who participated in the "parties" in the health field, doctors, hospital executives, state officials, companies, saying "no control anywhere, no cut anywhere". I mean, live the waste! We're here. And because I see that some colleagues are reluctant to find me a proposal in particular at the time of Officerial Opposition, even a proposal to reduce pharmaceutical expenditure. I remember Mr Tsipras speaking in November 2015 about generics, saying that they are drugs of dubious quality, as I remember you did not support e-prescription, a measure necessary in every modern state. So you are not, unfortunately, innocent of the country. You were attracted by a regime that some were earning money, by others who earned votes and by some who earned both and only lost all these years, with this waste, with this health and drug scandal, public health and insurance funds, and finally, the next generations that loaded our debts and waste. And today we're still bleeding. Every year we pay for drug imports - take note of another parameter in the debate - more than 2 billion, when cars are imported, we pay less than 1 billion. Yes, but we do not have car manufacturers, but we have twenty-eight Greek pharmaceutical industries that invest in Greece and it is our duty to offer a purely competitive landscape, anticipating and setting a national target for increasing domestic production and reducing imports. For all this, however, there is no debate in the House and the Chamber is only filled when there is a great deal of conflict. I want here - let me make a more general point. The opponents in politics, like sports rivals, must follow certain rules of controversy. The "fucking" of political life drives people crazy and leads them to the "sprayed" and the extreme right. See what happened in Italy. Our main concern and our first thought cannot be the protection of our parties, it cannot be the protection of our own people, but the public interest. The government cannot go beyond justice, to show guilty exclusively and selectively from the ranks of its opponents, but let me too, as an adversary, cannot speak of a 'Maximum Judges' gang that governs the country. The splitting "these traitors" said by SYRIZA, the divisive that even the Prime Minister said, today's Prime Minister "One of them or over" must not find imitators today in the political speech of counterpopulation, because this leads to a vicious circle of hatred. The judges between this unscrupulous party conflict are being devastated. And when everyone is "sold" or is everyone 'gangs' as we hear in this Chamber, why should a citizen have confidence in and respect judicial decisions? Leave the politicians, let's just talk about court decisions. I will therefore insist that the splitting political speech threatens the country and threatens the economy. And I'm saying it's three years that I've collected all the dirt of trolls and make news, a whole period. And then, as I say now, and I will continue to say that we must not be like the monster we are fighting for. Political controversy comes alive and improves democracy, everyday civils marvel at it. I shall conclude with this particular point and with the concrete proposal of the New Democracy. We need to investigate everything, because not only those who exercise power but those who exercise authority are not above control. We have said from the outset that there is an attempt to make a pre-interrogative glue. We had denounced that there is no room for investigation by Parliament and there is no room for investigation by the government majority and it will soon be hidden behind the limitation. In other words, we must close the case until after two or three meetings. No witnesses, no testimonies, no evidence. I hope Mr. Tsipras didn't mean what he said. It was an oral word, there was no paper. So he said that the three witnesses, the three protected witnesses, are in the hands of only justice, and the judges will call them if necessary. It's not like that. The three witnesses are also in the hands of the Greek Parliament, the pre-inquiry and should come here, in the way that will be chosen by the Committee of Inquiry. It is likely that their anonymity will be respected, if the honourable Members consider it, but they will come here to denounce, they will come here to present the evidence, and they will come here to answer questions which they should have answered and which they should have answered at the interrogator's offices. So we expect answers, because the worst of all in politics is to have only shadows. Full enquiry for everyone and everything, both for the ex-girlfriends and for the currents, because in a little while - and this is a great danger, ladies and gentlemen - if we continue to dance the falsifications, if we continue to fly barrels for pre-inquiry without doing anything, people will hear pre-inquiry and laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u205	Before giving Mr Michaloliakos the floor, Mr Adoni Georgiadis will be given for a minute on a personal matter, as his name has been heard at some point. It'll last a minute than he assured me. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u206	Just a minute, Mr President. Two colleagues, Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Paulakis referred to some so-called phrases - namely the phrase 'in two-thirds of the countries of the European Union circulating' - which I added to a ministerial decision to make 'gift' is supposed to be 'NOVARTIS', drawing from a post on Sunday, by Mr Vaxebanes, the usual one. Ladies and gentlemen, we may have a political controversy, but we cannot make the jungle House. Mr. Mada, I'm reading you under Rule 149 of Law 4512/2018 of the law passed by your Government. Mr. Papachristopoulos has voted for it, Mr. Kourublis has voted for it, Mr. Paulakis has voted for it. Mr. Xanthos has voted for it. Regulation of the European Parliament and I read: “They are subject to the evaluation and are included in the List of Indemnified Medicinal Products only if they are compensated for at least two thirds (2/3) of the Member States of the European Union which are in circulation.” The phrase for which I was accused with headlines and which I was supposed to have paid to put - and I heard it here again by Mr Polakis and Mr Papachristopoulos - is a phrase that you have voted on in your 2018 law! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, Mr. Colleague, do you want to do the jungle policy? Zugla, because a journalist moves'slash' by conducting contracts? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Michaelakos, please. Mr. Loverdos has asked to make a very brief statement in relation to the previous ones and you will then have the floor. Thank you. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Alliance, as well as all the Members of the Democratic Integration with me, are expressing this on a very serious foreign policy issue that the Prime Minister said. Mr President, the Immigration crisis in 1996, a severe crisis - we all remember it in its details - has subsequently led to the real upgrading of the country, due to the management of that government, in Helsinki, to the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. That's a reality. Nobody has the right in this Chamber, after so many years and despite the developments to delete all these positive developments and to blame the government and Prime Minister Costas Simitis. However, contrary to what happened then, today, at the time when all the Greeks, all the Greeks, and despite the fact that in this Chamber today, Mrs Gennamata, Mr Venizelos and I, in addition to the items on the agenda, have made three references to the difficult conditions under which the country is going through, we are faced with a government that is sweeping over things, which history has recorded and forgotten, with a loss of remembrance, that in these days, what happened after the diligence of the Minister for National Defence, has obviously turned demands for 'grain areas', which are also irresponsible, in addition, but upgraded on their part, on Turkey's sovereignty. There is moderation in this Chamber, soundness, when it comes to the country's foreign policy and not demagogues,'slash' and arguments of this depression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u210	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u211	For a lie that was heard by Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u212	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u213	He's a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u214	Please, you don't have the floor. We have delayed Mr. Michaloliakos twice with interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, this has to be answered now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u216	No, no. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have previously heard Prime Minister Tsipras answering the Chief of Police Response Mr Mitsotakis and saying that the three witnesses, the guards, the anonymous, tell them as you wish, are in the hands of the pre-response committee to call them or not. I mean, if we understood well, the pre-inquiry works self-inquiry and not without a political line. Finally, why do politicians not take responsibility here for what is done and place it in the organs, majorities, which we all know are working on a party line? However, Mr Tsipras said something else in response to the Left's responsibility for what has been done over the last forty-four years just after the 1974 Migration. He said crime happened. Thank you very much for his confession. Yes, there has been a crime at the expense of the nation forty-four years, which has resulted in a bankruptcy of national, moral and lasting economics. Against this crime since the 2012 elections, there is a party, a party that everyone fights in this Chamber, the Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's sitting is to become another pre-interrogative. Before that, however, we must say that this is not the only scandal that happened in our country. Let us remember the Stock Exchange and say that the file was opened in 1999. It came out in 2009, after ten whole years and a few days ago the decision was made that sixty-seven defendants were all acquitted! This is the clearance of the political establishment! As for the Left, he tells us he didn't rule. Are you serious? And at the time of the universal era, at the time when some monstrous conventions were signed with the "SIEMENS" that occupied the Greek people, where was the Left? It was a government. Should we also forget that, as international auditors of public corruption have said, the biggest scandals were made by local authorities? Was the Left and the Local Government? It was always present in both assignments and everything. And finally, she has been ruling over the last three years and certainly has her responsibility for what is happening in our country. And it was the left one, which, as our parliamentary representative said in his speech this morning, gave an acquittal of paper to Chohatzopoulos and Papantoniou, by signing the conclusion and received a letter of thanks to the defendants. So let them not talk about the spirit of the Left, because the Left has been inside all things over the years, whether in the PASOK governments or in other situations, and of course in the municipalities, communities, etc. It is clear that we will be voting in favour of the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry proposed by the New Democracy, because we want 'all in light'. But should we consider: Do they want everything in light, both SYRIZA and New Democracy? I answer unreservedly no. The greatest proof of this is that, for the work of the preliminary investigation, they decided not to be presented by television receivers nor to be practically available for them. Is that all in the light? No, it's 'all in the dark'. And the only ones who have nothing to fear and say "all in light" are us, the golden ones alone. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the transfer of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, it is indeed proposed that he should be investigated for the 2015 Minister of Health - namely Mr Kurublis - the committing of the crime of infidelity. We don't say he's guilty. We respect the presumption of innocence. As also for the Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Polakis, for some invoices of drugs in 2016. There's to be an investigation into this, too. Make it preliminary. Make it pre-inquiry. We will vote on it. But, ladies and gentlemen, not only of the New Democracy but also of PASOK, and if I am not mistaken of the Potami party, they did not vote when the vote took place here with the ten ballots, because it was - it says - the 10 ballots. So now that they're three, they're gonna vote? How many balls then do they vote? These have nothing to do with logic. As, of course, it is not about logic and the fact - there is a contradiction here but also a gap of logic - to speak of a specific, anonymous complaint. How can an anonymous complaint be brought into effect, at the same time as afflicting the prior recommendation of the pre-review because the witnesses are anonymous, protected, etc.Huh? We have a firm position on this issue and we are opposed. We now come to national issues. In conclusion, I would like to conclude by saying that we shall vote. All in the light! If you have the courage, to abolish in practice the "Greek Responsibility Act", this famous Article 86, which is a scandal. How will it be abolished in practice? Whenever a proposal is made for a pre-request committee to vote on it. Only then will this be done. I come to one of the two major national issues, that of our Macedonia. Some things have been heard in here, but we see that, with coordinated action by both "pimps" of public life, the owners of the country and the political and economic establishment, it has been buried and passed on to unclaimed demands. Then, before the rally - as the Prime Minister spoke of crime earlier - a leading executive of the famous "Rubicon", the protected children of SYRIZA, was released and said "blood will be spilled" and the prosecutor of the Ice Bay ordered an examination on February 1, 2018. And we now have March and nothing has been done! Is that a state? Oh, no. It's covert. And as much as they're trying to hide it, it's for granted. They believe that with the case of the scandals they will cover the issue of Macedonia. And it is no accident - and I said it in my speech in the previous debate on the pre-inquiry - that this debate took place one day after the rally. And today we have the Prime Minister of Skopje, Zaev, to declare on the Bulgarian 'NOVA' channel: 'The people will support the solution. I'm sure the Macedonians - for the Skopje report - are ready for that. However, we are still in the middle of negotiations and I hope that this solution will preserve the dignity of Macedonians and Greeks." Let us respond through this House to Mr Zaev: there are no Macedonians and Greeks. The Macedonians are Greek! Only Greek! The others are Slavs, they have nothing to do with Macedonia or Greece! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] On March 7th, he recently said: "Let's open the Greek Constitution, to see how they care for Greeks outside Greece. I am ready, as they are for the Greeks outside Greece, for us to care for the Macedonians outside Macedonia. What does Zafe say to him about that statement? That in Florina, Kastoria, Edessa, Pella, everywhere, people live who are not Greek, but "Macedonians". No answer. It is said that there is no longer any scope for transaction and any attempt to trade, with this data, accepting Zaf's position that there are Macedonians outside Macedonia, that is to say, when it raises a matter of national minorities in Greece, every transaction and any name acceptance that will bear the term Macedonia is clear - it also says the federation of the Macedonian associations all over the world - that this thing if it is done - not to be afraid of words at any time, if it really is and they say what we have to say - it will be betrayal. Faced with this betrayal the Golden Dawn will stand against every instrument, as provided for in Article 120 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We also had, on the basis of the latest issues relating to Greek-Turkish, Erdogan visit, and unfortunately the Golden Dawn was vindicated. As an issue emerged in a committee of Parliament, I would remind you of what Erdogan said at the Komotini minority school. Our four Members - and no one came out of the Muslim MPs to deny it - are calling on them here to make a simple statement, to say that Turkey is not their mother country, as they say. Let them say that and just then accept them. As far as they say that it is their mother country, Turkey is illegally in this Parliament as well. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We also had, of course, the only gathering and protest course against the captivity of the two Greek soldiers and the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs came out and strongly condemned this demonstration. I am proud of this demonstration, and they should be careful when the Turks talk, because they have done a lot of shameful acts against Hellenism in Istanbul, Ionia, Pontto, and these are not forgotten by the Greeks. But the Turks did not succeed only against the Golden Dawn. In a recent visit to Pieria, the President of the Republic, among other things, said, addressing the Turks: "What simpler than respecting international law, the law of the sea, the Treaty of Losani". We may not have that ground, which historically would be true to us. We're totally in agreement. Greece does not have the land historically relevant to it, but as he believes in the homeland of his heart, so we also have a home country of the heart, which arrives in Adrianoupolis, reaches Bankouda, arrives in Izmir, arrives in Istanbul. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] A lot of "pads" and paid tubers in this country. They recently came out and said, on the occasion of the presence of warships from the US fleet in the EEZ of Cyprus, that America is on our side that it will destroy the Turks. And here comes the official announcement of the American Ministry of Foreign Affairs saying: "We believe that the oil and gas resources of the island, like all its other resources, are to be distributed fairly between the two communities." What does the State Department tell us with this announcement? He accepts the results of 'Attila'. He's talking about two communities. This is against the Greek line, against the Cypriot line, a purely philosophical Turkish position, which recognises two communities. There are no two communities. There is a sovereign state, which is a member of the UN and is the single state of Cyprus. The Americans, like NATO, like the European Union - let's get this news - have sold us out and sold us out for Turkey's sake, we were slaughtered for the sake of them in two world wars, when Turkey was an ally to the former, and the latter was succumbingly neutral. Because in this disgraceful act two Greek soldiers were taken hostage, I would like to express my serious objections to the fact that the Greek side officially adopted the Turkish view that they are within Turkish territory. We do not know exactly what the statements of the two officers of our Armed Forces were arrested and we do not know and how these statements were taken under what conditions. But, in order to understand how dishonest and insidious Turkey's attitude is, I will recall that on 8 October 1996 a captain, Nail Erdogan, violating our national airspace crashed our plane, F-16, ejected from his seat, escaped, went to the Hospital of Chios and we delivered it properly. They took our soldiers prisoners. Where? At the Evros border, where we have the great flow of illegal immigrants, which we all know is a para-state case, a case of Turkish para-states. Of course, some people who said that this is not a big deal. I understand them. These people have only seen a border in their geography books at school. They've never seen a border before. Others did not serve their service at all, others served in Athens. But we at the border know very well what that means. This is about the Turkish captain we handed over in 1996. We have here the testimony of the killer of the hero Eliaki, Kalli Ibrahim, who confesses in his statement to the Turkish Ministry of Defence that he murdered the Greek pilot by launching a missile from his aircraft. And we let him pick up a Turkish helicopter undisputedly. We also have some politicians in Turkey, first Erdogan, who recently said that "what we tell the Greeks is to remember that a long time ago the glorious red flag with the helmet flowed into their territories". I would also remind him that the glorious blue-white man had reached the gates of Ankara at that legendary plateau of our army for the realization of the Great Idea. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Two people on the Greek patrol. Eight to ten Turkish. And how can that not be the case? Ten million are us with a demographic problem. And what do we have? Nine months. Eighty million Turks, fifteen months of service. The only answer that Turkey understands is the response of power. To become powerful, to become our Armed Forces a great deterrent force for every stumbling enemy. That's the only solution. Scandals, national themes also open in the newspaper "KATHMERINI" Xenia Kunalakis, a well-known progressive and left-wing journalist who systematically slanders the Golden Dawn, wrote: "The responsibilities for 9.4% of the Golden Dawn in the latest polls of "METRON" therefore belong not only to the NW, but also to the Government and, of course, to the media. The Nordic Scandinavian "NOVARTIS", nationalism on the occasion of Macedonia, day-to-day reconciliation with violence, tolerance to racism and the fascination or unfolding of those expressing such views, a party favours more." That's the truth. The future is coming. You call us bums, fascists, racists, but we're tomorrow, and you're yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u218	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u219	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u220	"Come on, come on"! I heard the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u221	You've said worse. Let me not repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u222	Look. I hoped that the Chief of Golden Dawn today would not cover what was heard twice in the Greek Parliament and who will be engaged in the special session of Wednesday and the plenary of the House on expressions of MPs and other things that were heard within the Greek Parliament. Unfortunately, however, his speech - and I am only talking about this issue to God, I am not making any other kind of confrontation, but I am very direct - was very clear and sowing hatred, poison, division and suspicion for Greek MPs. This has never happened in the Greek Parliament over all decades, no matter how much you refer to the Minutes. No Greek MP can tell the Greek Parliament whether Greece is home or whether he believes in any other country, because Greek MPs are elected. Some of them, in fact, are colleagues, who are Muslim citizens, Greek MPs and since the 1990s, have been elected four and five times, in full knowledge and harmony with the Greek Constitution, the Greek laws, the electoral law and the full popular consent of Greek citizens who live there and believe what they believe. No one has the right to ask them for this statement and the testimony within the Greek Parliament. I am very sorry, because we thought - but of course the House will discuss them on Wednesday - the extreme extremes of what they have heard about Turkish agents. In fact, they were called not during some acidification, but were obviously premeditated, twice in committee and in plenary. You must realise that you have gone far beyond the borders, not just of ethics or of parliamentary decency or of political dialogue, but of the borders of hatred and division, which you are sowing with your speeches. I would like to tell you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u224	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, you have begun your speech with the word 'I hope'. I am pleased that your hopes are not real and you will not become a reality, because you will soon be a past in this country and your resignation and your government. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] As far as this issue is concerned, I did not talk about agents. I was specific, and I said that it is not allowed in this House, the Greek Parliament, to have people elected to say that their mother country is either Turkey, Italy, France or England. I remain in this, and this common sense requires. For whatever else you want, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u226	Mr Paulakis has the floor, who wants to answer something that he has heard in Mr Georgiadis's report. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u227	I feel the need to respond and to make something clear, because Mr Georgiades has once again served to his loved sports of distortion. He often reads with a terribly convincing style some things, except he reads them halfway through. He did it on TV recently, compared to the FBI. Mrs Papadakou pointed this out to him and today she dares and does so again in the Greek Parliament. We have accused Mr. Georgian that in order to implement the "Harvard Project", an element of which was the introduction of ten medicines to the positive list of EOPY's compensated drugs, it has changed - by a ministerial decision it issued - a wording concerning which medicine they enter into the positive list paid by EOPY, since they have first taken a price from the EOF. It has therefore changed the previous provision and, where it said 'two-thirds of the countries of the European Union', it has taken the three words 'two-thirds of the countries in circulation'. They may, in other words, be released in three countries. If they're compensated for in two, they're on the positive list. The 10 drugs described by NoVARTIS were thus invented into the Harvard Project. In fact, three drugs, 'Jakavi', 'Votubia' and 'Signifor', were only available in two countries and are compensated in two countries. How does he try to blur the waters? He says: With this year's decision that we have legislated on the help technology, the evaluation of health technologies, we say in this law - because we are making things and formulating them in another way - that in order for a medicine to come into the country and then enter into the positive list, it should offer a therapeutic benefit that they did not offer before, to cover a need that was not covered before and a number of things. Since we do not want to leave patients out of the treatments that have been proven or in advanced phases of study, they show that they have results, we say this and Mr Georgiadis read this and has the nerve not to read the next one. It reads: 'The list is only subject to compensation in the 2/3 Member States of the European Union circulating...'. And it stops reading here. ‘... the States in which they are marketed may not be less than nine’. This does not read, to say that we are the same, that it is circulated in three countries and compensated in two. He says we're going to do the same. Their panic is absolute. Here it goes on to say: 'There are nine countries from which at least half of them must belong to some countries with a health assessment mechanism, namely Austria, Belgium, Great Britain, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden, Finland'. These have integrated systems and we're going for the first time to build now. He comes here to say that we are the same and isolates the phrase and does not read the next one. The distortion of them has become a second nature now. Only the panic proves that thing. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u229	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u230	It is Parliament's deception of what it does. Do you understand? It's not coming out on a show, on a "municipality store". He comes to Parliament and reads something that is half! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 2nd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u232	The last phrases by Mr Polakis are that Parliament has been deceived by Mr Adonai. Has it only been done by Mr. Adonai, Mr. Polakis? I think that many times our Parliament has been deceived, if we remember what was said before and what was then done. When Mr Tsipras said he was tearing the memorials and then becoming the memorial tomb, is that a confirmation of Parliament? Anyway. I mean something else. The President of the Parliament, speaking to the golden people - who actually have an inappropriate attitude - gave suggestions that we should trust the MPs. Mr. Kotzias wanted to send something for the MPs to read on a committee. It was said: “Only read it, not take it.” Wasn't that a fear that one of the MPs kidnaps the text and takes it off? Was she trusting the Members of this House? In other words, the government has shown in its attitude that it does not trust MPs. I had asked then, and they had said that the documents should come here - for another matter it was - but just looking at them, not being able to get them. That means there was a fear of someone taking them and using them. You would notice that there is a government in Germany. While there was a chaos that socialists are completely opposed to forming a government with the right-wings, it became government and this government is about to swear. And there was no Sunday election on Monday to swear. It's been six months already. Our study, Sunday elections, Monday morning to swear a government, what kind of study is that? Where is this study intended? Have we ever shown political maturity? Even in Italy, when journalists were raped to say that a result came out for the benefit of the populists and the extreme right, etc., you will see that there will also be a similar maturity and that there will be a government. They will not go to elections, because there is the culture of understanding, and here there is the division. I'll say something else. The next time the vote was taken to refer the ten, I said: 'Why did Tsipras leave when I started talking?' They said: "He went to an obligation, it was a funeral of very vocal symbol and he had to go." Okay, if that was so serious. Now that Mr. Tsipras is away, do we have a problem like this? Did he go to a similar obligation? He told the Gospel to some channel that works that I made a big foul, that I did not know he was going to a funeral. I didn't foul. I consider the Prime Minister's presence in the talks of the political leaders to be a supreme issue, because if he doesn't listen to us here, where will he hear us? Everything is useful, both marriages and funerals and sadness. Was mourning, of course, too heavy, no one sees, but also talking to the leader of a party that has done forty years to get into the House to say things, isn't it important? He told me it was important. What's missing today? And he left me who? Janakopoulos? Mr. Janakopoulos is very good, I have no doubt, but after my meeting with Tsipras, Tsipras told me about the election time, Mr. Janakopoulos came out and disproved me and said I was lying that Tsipras told me that. I ask Mr. Janakopoulos: in the history of the Greek nation, has he ever told the truth about the time of the elections? Find me a Government Representative, Mr. Janakopoulos, who in the history of the two hundred years of free Greek nation has ever told the truth about the timing of the elections. He said the Prime Minister - I heard him from my office - that thirty thousand had been taken by Mr Papadimitriou's wife and offered to return them and had the sensitivity to resign. But when I heard her the first day, she said to return them and not give up. He did not say 'I give up and return them'. He said: "I am willing to return them and I remain." When the "tsunami" broke out now and the people's anger would eat Tsipras, then he was released. To tell the truth, he didn't give up. Don't change the phrases. In the meantime, Mr Tsipras said: "What is the EUR 30,000 in front of the NOVARTIS 22 billion?" What about the two hundred of Barofakis? So, in those was Mr. Tsipras 'innocent of blood'? When Mr. Varoufakis did what he did, someone said he might be two hundred, it could be a hundred and eighty. However, it is a serious sum, because the country lost GDP, the country created armies of unemployed and became chaos. Now the exact number of those we have lost may be the subject of some other examinations in the future, because Mr Tsipras does not think that it is the only one who refers. That's a loan. I said next time that this is loan, and that's why I offered Samaras and Pikramenos to take them out of the cradle, not because I wanted to acquit them, but why we were out of Europe and they said, "Here's two prime ministers who stole your money. What do you want? Investments?’ That's not a nice thing. Tsipras is supposed to be looking for investments, unless he's not looking and just looking for August to pass. What did we lose from each other? What we have lost from PASOK is a million appointments. But you want to do more. It is a few things that we have lost from a million appointments of the Pasoko Andreian period and you want to add other contractors. And I'm saying, right now, that Greece's problem is to put others up? He says, "But he needs the public." The private sector, which is debatable, what does it need? He needs a seriousness, some motives. He needs a banking system that works. What, of all things, did you do? Nothing at all. Why is it that only the need to recruit the public is what you are interested in? Because, obviously, this brings votes. But people see these things and see that you're unrepentant. Don't think the Greeks are stupid. They understand. So, your trend just before August when everything is judged to be a contractor is the concern that the public has a lack of staff or the vote? The people will judge what they prefer. I mean something that happened the other day on a channel. We were talking about the two soldiers. Who arranged for the two soldiers to go to the border? Who arranged this? The Turks were seven. Who gave an order? We made some SAD to see how patrols were done, because we have eight Turks that Turkey is persistently asking for. We have daily threats to the Turks: They will burn us, they will throw us into the sea, you will not have a country to defend. These threats are irresponsible. Even as wording is out all logical. So you're leaving the two ghosts? I will personally say what I think happened. I believe the Turks were watching that these two fanatics or two, however, always two, surrounded the border and set up a trap. That's my faith. They created prey and absolute responsibility is the leadership of the army upstairs, how it leaves - in my opinion - two children at the nest of the wolf. We're very foolish if we didn't expect that kind of retaliation. Would the Turks allow the opportunity to create conditions of exchange? Would they let her go? You know what I'm afraid of? We are talking about whether Turkey is asking for an exchange. I fear that there will be time, half the time, one year and we will be able to ask for an exchange. Did you hear that? I'm making a prediction with my humble mind. I won't say any more, because on Alexandroupolis a lot is being discussed. I'm not going to comment on these, because she's not here. But I fear that what we are afraid that the Turks will put the exchange, we will have to de facto under the pressure of parents and the climate to ask for it and then it will be totally humiliating for us. I have asked, because you are doing pre-inquiry here to find thieves, to put an intergroup committee when there is a supply or work done over a million and a prosecutor in the Chamber of Advocates-General. What would we do to resolve this matter in pastrical terms? Because with the system that we have today or if the New Democracy comes out tomorrow, we have to trust that the Minister is honest and will not get it. That's what we have to trust. Instead of trusting the Syrian Minister and then disappointing us, why don't we put on a permanent basis a check? Because you want power absolute. You don't want control. You want power absolutely, but absolute power gives rise to special courts. The absolute power you know creates retaliation. And be ready and brave for retaliation. Neither the Chohatzopoulos would exist, nor the Papantoniou, nor anyone else, if one prosecutor supervised the high supplies. But I do not understand why someone in the Chamber - I have said it five to six times - does not react. There's absolute anesthesia. Whatever we say, the river takes it. All that's left is that people are listening. Why, then, should we hunt thieves backwards and not prevent the existence of thieves? Are we losing a share of power? We better lose our share of power and let the ministers sleep calmly at night, without risk. Because I did not see Mr Mitsotakis say: "It is a very nice proposal from Mr Leventis. When we make project assignments or when we make large commissions, we will also have a prosecutor to check that we cannot be blamed." Indifference complete by you too. And your wing dreams of power, of grabbing it as a spoil, and you don't care if some people are referred back. Besides, there's an officiality to be referred back and not to be paid. A Chochazopoulou, I see a Papageorgiopoulou paid too. For which Papagoropoulos you should know that no money has been found, but the court considered that his negligence not to control the Municipality's accounting was so heavy that it was considered as he was misappropriated. That's right. Money wasn't found because they have a way to escape the money. It's not like thieves taking the money to the bank. Let's explain. And with the American ambassador I discussed, he told me that the system is a ministerial body in Greece. What's he gonna say? That a service agent can't take out the cost of any medications, planes. You're going to the Minister in the file. The agency can't function alone. "While, he says, we in America have service councils, which when they decide, not even the Minister learns on the other floor, to whom we ordered what we ordered." And in the ministries, it's very likely that some people were deviated. I'm not talking about the people here. Don't Mr. Georgiadis think it's his business. I do, in fact, believe, because you are all talking about political responsibilities, that is to say, the pre-inquiry you are making them politically responsible? I didn't get it. I know that we are conducting the preliminary investigations when we have a certain degree of criminal responsibility. I did not understand that with suspicion of political responsibility we are conducting preliminary investigations. Unless we have time to waste. Do we have a lot of time for a mess? I want to say about Skopje two things, because Skopje is the following. I still don't know what a stop Mr. Panjas has. Do you give it the name? You're giving it up, Mr. Panjah. After giving it a hundred and forty-five other peoples, wouldn't you give it to me? Because you're laughing engraved, gladly. To laugh, it means you give it the name there, doesn't it? And you give it to finish. After a hundred and forty - five people have given it, it is tiring to insist. Is that your name, Mr. Panjah? Did you fight? Have you been to Thessaloniki to sit in a café and say "I give it the name"? I advise you to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u233	Our position is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u234	Your position is that you give it. And the PASOK said that if the altums left, PASOK's giving it up. The New Democracy said national line "Buchurest line". The Bucharest line is Macedonia - Skopje. So New Democracy's giving it up, too. No, he's twirling now, he's back because he saw he's gonna have great losses in the world, the New Democracy is 50-50. I think that the Chamber and the parties should be serious. Do not say a complex name, say in summary we give the word 'Macedonia'. That's the man. Because you're saying a complex name. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What's a composite name? And the gab-gab dog is a complex name. You give a complex name that includes the term "Macedonia" and that you have no right to do. You are at odds with the entire Greek people and we were not expecting you, the Left, forty years to come to power to commit this... You don't have that right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, allow me two more minutes. I have asked the President of the Republic to hold a meeting with the political leaders on armaments. Why do you think I've asked? Because I'm afraid of a hot episode now. And how do we act in the hot episode? Are we going to answer? We're gonna pack up and go? Why do the Americans know what they're saying? If it happens in Pserimos or anywhere, the American will intervene and say: "Outside the Greeks, out the Turks". The Turks, however, will leave Greek territory, i.e. from a foreign territory, while we will leave our territory and the betrayal of soil and flag is for the soldiers a great betrayal. Did you hear that? In Imia, when Simitis packed them with Arsenis and left, the Turks left Greek territory, i.e. from foreign territory, but Greece left Greek territory. Have you appreciated that? Because I see a smile. You're all very laughable. Really, this laughter is so good and I always hope you're so happy, but should you cry and not be happy? Have you lost your sense of what weeping is and what is it for joy? So, you should be glad to see where you give the name of Macedonia? Rejoice that Erdogan arrested two of our troops and said, "Will we see and through Bulgaria will we take them back?" Tsipras told me that when the colossians come here with oil, accompanied by their country's navy, where would Erdogan dare? They've been packed and will be collected by the Americans, because the Americans no longer want to engage in a war. The Skopje issue is being pressed, because they don't want the Russian to put his hand on. That's all that burns them up and Merkel and the Americans. You should know that. But in the rest of the issues to come to fight next to us, this is Constantine Karamanlis took Greece out of NATO, because the behaviour of the Americans was a donkey. We were allies in NATO and a Constantine Karamanlis came to the point and took Greece out of NATO's military arm, because they didn't move.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, if you are kind enough, please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u238	You're in a hurry to discuss who stole and who didn't steal. Keep the people going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u239	I should like not to leave what the President of the Centro Association said, that this attitude would be maleism and is even a shaped oxymomile, to be called today, on Women's Day. I think it was a great failure. Maleness, courage, lads not only have men, women are as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, for a minute I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u241	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Leventis, I know you're central. Previously, we had a conflict with Mr Michaloliaco. You said something and I would ask you, with your permission, because the issues have been clarified, to be deleted from the Minutes. I'm saying it straight away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u243	And what about the job?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u244	Please. Please. If the work is done, the Greek Parliament will decide and will be in favour of the Greek people and the Greek nation. That's where they decide. It's... It's a different time. You're from the central tradition and you have your sensitivities, so I'm talking to you differently. I do not conflict, as Mr Michaloliaco has already said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u245	Shall I accept such a thing, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u246	What are you talking about? So, you're saying not to be deleted from the Minutes, to stay as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u247	Get it out of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u248	You don't do me a favor. Do you understand what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u249	Describe it from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u250	What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting will be closed by the Minister of State, Mr Dimitris Janakopoulos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u253	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, it's Prime time now, so that's justifiable. I think that today's debate has shown the political conclusion that the Civic Opposition, the New Democracy, with its proposal to set up a preliminary examination committee against Mr Kurublis, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, was led to a genuine political Vaterlos. This arises not only from the way in which its rapporteurs and its parliamentary representative were put, but mainly from the fact that almost 3⁄4 of his speech, Mr Mitsotakis, the President of the Officerial Response, dealt with completely different issues from the issues that were supposed to be discussed today, namely arguing about the alleged signs that could lead to the yielding of criminal responsibilities to the three ministers. What did we hear today? We have heard about Mr Vizer and his 200 billion, and we have heard about the national issues, the foreign policy issues, which are extremely serious. However, I believe that if we make this political assessment, we can come here and discuss in a debate on a pre-dated order. I appreciated and thought - and I think everyone considered it - that today the debate was to argue in favour or against the proposal for a committee of inquiry and arguments were not heard. They didn't listen. What was attempted in the House today? Why have no arguments been heard, which could support the request of Officer Response? Because what was attempted in the House today was an unexpected attempt to set off. What does "inappropriate attempt" mean for non-legislators? An inappropriate attempt at homicide, for example, means trying to kill someone with a water gunman. This is what the New Democracy has done today, because with a water gun it looks like it and its proposal, which has been tabled before the Greek Parliament. What is the New Democracy trying to offset with this proposal? The novartis scandal, which is being investigated both by the House, but also by regular justice for the crime of black money, money laundering, money laundering, but is being investigated by the persons involved in this case who have not been ministers, Foreign Ministers or Prime Ministers and who have voted against Mr. Kubroulis and anonymous complaint that Mr. Xanthos applied the law that the Greek Parliament had passed. And cherry on the cake, we also have Mr. Polakis, who is accused. Why? Probably because he's got Cretan plates. It doesn't explain any differently. But let me repeat very briefly the arguments put forward here by the three comical denounced, indulging ministers. Mr Kourublis explained clearly that firstly, the issue of a price card was impossible during the negotiations with the Troika. He explained, and with great clarity, that there is no question of harm to the Greek State, as, as you know, there is a plaque at the cost of the Greek State in terms of medicine, 1,945,000,000. From there on, anything else is part of the clawback process. Therefore, given that the total expenditure was around 2,5 billion in 2015 and the reduction supposedly antigenically that it would have been achieved is less than 565 million, it appears that there is no harm to the Greek State. The story's over. Mr. Blonde explained to you what you already know. In other words, it was this government which, under the agreement - which ended up with the institutions in the summer of 2015 and the lenders - removed the cornerstone of the distortions in the drug market. The framework, which allowed generic medicinal products to have a price higher than offpatent medicinal products. Then you come to accuse Mr. Xanthos of applying the law that the Greek Parliament passed, as I told you before. No illegal act is identified, it does not appear that it favoured a particular company or a particular medicine. Apart from the notorious elatofen, which, if I'm not mistaken, has never been released in Greece. This is the charge that you have managed to create, build and bring to the vote before the Greek Parliament. This gentleman, or the lady who writes these anonymous complaints, should be more careful or careful. But let's go a little bit further. Where else do we have a netting operation? In an attempt to identify this anonymous complaint - because I have also heard some comments when I referred to this anonymous complaint - with the protected witnesses. What does it have to do with the truth, an anonymous complaint with a criminal institution that you have created, you have voted, and now that you have seen that it works against you, you rattle him, you are undermining him and you are deceiving him? The question arises as follows: What exactly are you asking for? I'll tell you what you're asking. You're asking for names to be revealed. And I wonder what context? In the context of the preliminary examination committee? For what? You don't trust Greek justice? Aren't you those who are supposed to defend Greek justice against the anti-institutional and institutional functioning of the current government, which intervenes in Greek justice? Now suddenly, when Greek justice comes into the process of controlling you, are you completely losing your trust? Nor do you know that the disclosure of the identity of the protected witnesses under the law - which I repeat that you yourself have voted - can only be done in the hearing? You voted for it, we didn't vote for it. Neither the Public Prosecutor nor the Interrogator is entitled to disclose the names of the witnesses protected. Is it not enough, then, for you to have the procedural safeguards offered to you by our own criminal system, which you have shaped? But that is not the issue that concerns you. Your purpose is not to reveal the truth. Your aim is not to observe an institutional or ethical or criminal decency or correctness. Your aim is to create noise. Your aim is to create reservations about the legality of the procedure. Your aim is to terrorize witnesses, to fear justice. This is precisely the attitude that forms the core of the reasoning of the intervention in the work of justice. Over the last few years, and despite the fact that the political system has acknowledged the need to abolish or in any case amend Article 86(3) of the Constitution, I can hear several of those who are allegedly involved in bringing forward arguments which contribute to the need for a broad interpretation of Article 86(3) in order to bring about a broad interpretation of that article and the protective and prosperous provisions for a reduced period of amortization as many offences as possible. This does not conflict directly with your political position, that Article 86(3) should be repealed and should it be repealed? Or when it comes to making a criminal interpretation, are we forgetting everything that should be the cornerstone of this very criminal interpretation? Indeed, in the context of legal interpretation, there is too much that can be heard, debated, reasonably understood. The question, however, concerns the will of the political system which, as I have said before, must also be the core to which we shall make a legal interpretation on such a sensitive political issue. In my opinion, this interpretation, especially in cases where it introduces exceptional criminal treatment, should be as strict as possible. Because it is not the goal of criminal law, nor is it the objective of this constitutional special criminal treatment to cover up crimes, cover up crimes, nor is it the Constitution aimed at impunity. And that can only be the way in which at least the House has to address these issues. Interestingly, the way you faced the situation at first was that there is no scandal, that everything is a construction that the Prime Minister organised in cooperation with the judicial authorities. And this is not considered anti-institutional intervention and an insult to state functions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Then your attitude changed and you said: 'There is certainly a scandal, but that is not a political one'. And all of a sudden, the political position changes irreversibly and is something different. You are now resorting precisely to the interpretations that they want to say that even if there were offences, that would be the responsibility of the preliminary committee, so they have been omitted, so there is no reason to discuss them. Why do you feel this need to invoke the substantive criminal provisions on limitation? Why do you feel that need? I don't get it. We are here to discuss everything, to see it all either within the Preliminary Committee or in regular justice. What are you afraid of? What do you have to hide? I don't get it. Today, however, the Greek people know and know very well. The citizens, as well as the political system, know and admit that the period of the development of the Greek economy was at the same time a period of institutional and moral degeneration. In fact, it really wants some in this Chamber to try to reverse reality, make it walk with their heads down and feet up, to prove that it is not institutional degeneration of the 'SIEMENS' scandal, the Scaramag Naval scandal, the armaments, metro hatred, the sea-loving of the parties of 400 million euros, which will probably end up in the unclaimed, the sea-loving media, the media hatreds in public works, the condemned and subjugated ministers and the politicians of the parties of the past ever partitioning. This is not all institutional degeneration. Institutional degeneration is the effort of the state institutions to put order and implement the law. No one believes you anymore. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] One more comment: Some have accused the government of highlighting the issues of the corruption of the political system and the old parties of power, allegedly, undermining the possibilities of consent in a period of geopolitical instability and external crises. What did they say? Be careful, because this argument is extremely dangerous, it would be dangerous to say. They are invoking the external risk to demand that the government cover up illegal acts and not highlight corruption issues. If this is not an insult to the intelligence of the Greek people, it is literally an extreme political position, an extreme political one. This approach you have in the national interest is extremely interesting. Invoking existing or nonexistent external dangers to salvage yourself is literally the most barren and immoral attitude one can adopt. Only from this blackmail argument can one draw very clear conclusions on the quality of the political staff who have been ruling this country for for forty years. Last comment: Why, ladies and gentlemen, are you attempting this very political distraction? Because you're in a very bad position. You are in a bad position because of NOVARTIS, in a bad position mainly because it has completely collapsed your political and economic account, which you tried to support at first in waiting for a government to fall in the first assessment. You said 'The first assessment will not be closed'. The first evaluation is closed. Then what did you tell us? ‘The second assessment will not be closed. You will fall, we will go to elections." The second evaluation is closed. Then you have to discover something to be able to go. Clearly, seeing that this government will be able to drive the country out of the Memorandum, it will be able to lead the country out of the framework of the memoranda in which you led it, so that you will also have to consider something, so that you can create political diversions and, in any case, lose everything that is being persecuted. What's your last argument? That was supposed to be a fourth memorandum passed. Why has a fourth memorandum been passed? You don't even know what it was that you've been voting on for five years. Do you know what the Memorandum is? The memorandum is a series of reforms...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u255	And that's what we're closing down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u256	I'll close, Mr. President. The memorandum is a series of reforms that one agrees with in exchange for disbursements of credit contracts. You're the ones who're being sarcastic, too. In exchange for disbursements from credit contracts. At the end of the third programme, all this mechanism comes to an end. In other words, there is no longer a lever for political coercion which is money for reform. And because you see that, you've started talking about a preventive support line now. Because what is your political goal? Undermining the output process and creating the need for a preventive support line to force the situation to be pulled into a fourth memorandum. I'm so sorry, but it doesn't work. It doesn't work at all. And you know what proves the fact that it doesn't work and that you can't undermine this course? See today the Greek bond prices. You almost celebrated last week that Greek bonds and their curve have begun to take the ignorance. At the moment, the seven-year-olds are again under 4%, the ten-year bond tends to rediscover less than 4%, the five-year bond is an absolute interest in continuing in this situation in which it is found. In any case, I think that if you want to achieve a relatively decent political result, you should try a little more and I think you can do better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Interior, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, the Deputy Minister of the Interior, as well as the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport have now tabled a draft law on transport issues and other provisions. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Member, Mr Yiannis Kefaliannis, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 15 March 2018 until 20 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u258	The House approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr Spyridon Danellis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 March to 8 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u259	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Leventis, you will remain in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u261	I wanted to note that the Centroon Association will not remain in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and seventy-three Members of the parliamentary group, to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination in accordance with Rule 86(2). 3 of the Constitution, 153 pp. of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 5 of Law No.3126/2003: "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, for the possible execution of the offence of infidelity relating to the service, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 256 c. Page 124 b) the Criminal Code in conjunction with Article 1(1) of Law 1608/1950 ‘To increase the penalties provided for by the public abusers’, as applicable, by Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, Andreas Xanthos and Paulos Polakis, according to the proposal on invoicing medicines and the general pharmaceutical expenditure in 2015-2016. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The following secret ballot shall be held in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 8 and 9 of Rule 155 and Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis Panagiotis, the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos and the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis, will not participate in the vote on the proposal to prosecute them, as provided for in paragraph 8 of Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place at one reading of the list, be self-evident for each person and will take place in three separate votes. There will be no name on the vote. Only one number will be entered. The voters shall be placed on the basis of the alphabetical order of the name of the persons against whom the proposal is directed. In particular: Voter number 1 concerns Mr Panagiotis Kurublis. Voter number 2 concerns Mr Andreas Blonde. Voter number 3 concerns Mr Paul Paul Polakis. For the purpose of holding your secret ballot, three ballots have been distributed by the name of Mr. Kourublis Panagiotis, Xanthi Andreas and Paulis Paulos. You have also been distributed isonumerically white lists, as well as isonumerical white envelopes. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there may not be any discrepancies or attributes in the ballots and in the files. The lists, as well as the proposal put forward, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u262	Each ballot below the heading ‘PRODUCT’ shall indicate the number of the voter relating to each of the above persons. You have also been distributed a table corresponding to the name of each person and the number of voter concerned. The vote shall be crossed under the three words 'NAH', 'OH', 'PAH'. If the ballot does not bring a cross, then I propose that it be considered invalid. Also, when counting, the ballots that will be found in the wrong ballot I propose should be considered void. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u263	The House therefore agreed. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will place his file with his vote in the respective ballot and the Members will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will take place at the end of the declaring of the names of the other Members for reasons of proper functioning of the procedure. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has sent written to Members of Parliament on a mission from Parliament or the Government abroad for participation in the secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Their ballots are in the sealed envelopes. Each folder is enclosed in a larger folder, also closed, indicating the number of the boxes intended. The second file is enclosed in a larger third file, also closed, which lists the name of the Member or the member of the Government who votes by letter. The dossier shall be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament and a copy thereof shall be lodged in the minutes of today's sitting. The Secretary of Parliament, Mr Gara Anastasia, is called on the list by the Radical Left Coalition and the Deputy Thesprotia Mr Yoyakas Vassilis from New Democracy. They are also called as voters: For the first poll, on the recommendation of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr Kourublis Panagiotis, MP Xanthis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Giannakis Efstathos and MP of the Lefkada of the New Republic Mr Kavvadas Athanasios. For the second call on the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos Andreas, the Member of the Trikalons of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dritselli Panayotas and the Member of the Imathia of the New Republic Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. For the third poll, on the recommendation of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Polakis Paulos, MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Risoulis Andreas and MP Mr Katsaniotis Andreas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the voters to take their seats. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: For the first poll, Mr Athanasios Athanasios (Nasos), a Quaestor of the Parliament. For the second call, Mr. Panzas Georgios, Quaestor of the House. For the third poll, Mr Athanasios Athanasios (Nasos), a Quaestor of the Parliament. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber and at the end of the secret ballot, because if the proposal is accepted there will be another vote on the duration of the committee and the number of its members. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Please precede the list: The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexi Tsipras, the Deputy Minister of Interior and the Deputy Minister of Serres of the Independent Greeks Mr Collis - Tsarouha Maria, the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Kourakis Anastassios, the Deputy Serres of the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Gellonis Michail, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Simorelis Christos Anastassios, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Democratic Association of the Republic of Athens, Mr. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u264	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot for the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure. No 3 of the Constitution and 153 pp. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as in force, for the possible execution of the infidelity offence in accordance with the provisions of Article 256 cf. Page 124 b) the Criminal Code in conjunction with Article 1(1) of Law 1608/1950 "To increase the sentences of the imprisoned for the imprisonment of the State", as they apply, by Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Andreas Xanthos and Paulos Paulakis, according to the proposal, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Bureau has received numbers 1198, 1199, 1196 and 1195 letters of 8 March 2018, by Mr Ioannis Manniatis, Mrs Friday Christophilopoulou, Mr Georgios Vagionas and Mr Markos Bolaris and I would ask that they be included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House: For the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis: A total of 267 Members voted. 267 ballots were found in the polls. I won 238 ballots. Annulled 29 ballots. White 0 ballots. In favour of the proposal, 86 Members voted. 151 Members voted against the proposal. "PARON" voted 1 Member. For the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Blonde: A total of 267 Members voted. 267 ballots were found in the polls. I won 234 ballots. Annulled 33 ballots. White 0 ballots. In favour of the proposal 88 Members voted. They have voted against the proposal by 145 Members. "PARON" voted 1 Member. For the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulo Polakis: A total of 267 Members voted. 267 ballots were found in the polls. I won 236 ballots. Annulled 31 ballots. White 0 ballots. In favour of the proposal, 86 Members voted. They voted against the proposal by 149 Members. "PARON" voted 1 Member. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, the proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination tabled by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and seventy-three Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, is rejected because it did not concentrate the absolute majority of the total number of Members provided for in paragraph 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament for Mr Kouroubli Panagiotis, Mr Xanthos Andreas and Mr Polakis Paulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u268	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-08-S1-commons.u269	With the consent of the House and 23.14' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 9 March 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
