ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, February 1, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 928/29-1-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Evaluation of water resources and the implementation of the works of the Housing Prefecture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 944/30-1-2018, a topical question by MP Lassithi of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Exemption from the construction of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in Lassithi". 3. Under number 943/30-1-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Truthful damage to Crete in vegetable capital, public, municipal and private infrastructure, etc. Direct compensation for producers and support for the affected. Emergency mode’. 4. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 5. The question by No 924/26-1-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "To ensure the copyright of authors and the working rights of GNI workers". 6. The Question No 950/30-1-2018 by H' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament 2' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the burial monument of Amphipolis. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 925/26-1-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Contractors of the Fund for Archaeological Resources". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 929/29-1-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nicholas Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Direct resolution on a long-term unemployment issue". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 945/30-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy k. Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems remain in the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations (TAF) - Continuous impairment of public revenues due to administrative insufficiency and lack of political will of the Ministry of Culture and Sports (YPA)". 3. The Question No 930/29-1-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Workers of the Union Agricultural Cooperative Trikala (EAF)". 4. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 5. The question by number 956/30-1-2018, by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damages caused by agricultural crops in various areas of Crete due to extreme weather". 6. The Question No 927/26-1-2018 by the Independent MEP Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Kalamis olives are imported and “Based” as PDO Kalamata olives. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 875/22-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "The project to attract visitors to Lake Ladonna, amounting to EUR 1,289,618 and the project to improve the street Pournaria - Kyri - Mygdalia, of EUR 500,000, is expected to be announced". 8. The question by number 916/23-1-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanouil Synchronakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct need for cleansing and flooding on the River Iofiros and the streams of the area Xiropotamos - Agia Giannis Kostos - Maladon - Phoenikis of the Municipality of Heraklion". 9. The Question No 917/23-1-2018 by Piraeus II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Protection and safety measures for the life and health of workers in shipbuilding". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2002/12-12-12-2017 by Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the start of the new National Museum of Contemporary Art (EMT)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 907/2-11-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Yafka of intercepts at P. Faliro". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’ and ‘Following the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the sanctions on these Amending Protocols may be given the floor. They are both discussed together. Does anyone from Golden Dawn want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First, let us remind the House that today, January 31st, twenty-two years have been completed by the black night of Imia, where three Greek officers of our Navy were lost, Lieutenant Christoulos Karthanasis, Lieutenant Panagiotis Vlahakos and the signifiant Hector Gialos. We would expect Parliament, from all the parties, to say their place on this part, which is a national defeat for us. Even today, twenty-two years later, our neighbours, the Turks - for some in here are also best friends - are plucking down the area, not leaving Greek fishermen. Yesterday we had an episode again. Today, people came out on radios and complained that the Greek state had left them in the Turks and the Greek Parliament, the Greek state, the Greek state, the Greek officers do not exist, they do not fall above this problem, to see and talk to the Greek people about what is happening and what the Greek state can do. Of course, there are no sea borders for the government. For us of the Golden Dawn, there are marine borders, there is Hellenism, there are paralyzed homelands and at some point we hope to honor the Greek soils that are enslaved. We believe that we should honour them and believe that the House today, on this black day, should honour these three wronged heroes of our nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u5	On this point now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u6	National issues for us are more urgent than supposedly economic. As far as the convention with Liechtenstein and San Marino is concerned, it is a contract from which the Greek people will have no benefit. It's a purely economic contract. The whole of the European Union cannot be considered as such places such as San Marino, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Andorra, Man, the Cook Islands, which are the 'washing machines' for the large states of the European Union in the North, such as France, Germany, England, to have such tax havens to launder their money and instead the countries of the South, such as Greece, to pay a heavy price to all of them. We have a bad debt that is not real, it is behind fictitious figures, and we in no way accept it. Such sanctions, such contracts cannot be supported by the Greek state, because it has no benefit. What good can he have from San Marino? What good can he have from Liechtenstein? And, of course, some such sanctions are really an e-mail for Greek citizens, who actually do not make any profit, but only the international system can spy on citizens. If they wanted to run tax evasion and terrorism, they could very easily close the borders, not pass the various Islamic terrorist organisations, because the problem in Europe has a name and ISIS and Islamic terrorism are clear. For many years Europe has maintained a financial and economic reality. We were having a good time. In recent years this monster of lawlessness and terrorism has been created, with a name and identity. That is why we are voting against these two conventions - namely Liechtenstein and San Marino - and we believe that a secure economic zone could only be maintained if the borders were closed and let the Greek state be policed by the Greek Army, by the Greek Police, by the security bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I can have the floor for half a minute if my colleague will allow me. I'd like to fill in something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like you not to pass over and clarify our rapporteur's proposal: although these few people are here, representatives of all the political parties in the country, through you and the Bureau, are proposing that the Golden Dawn at this time should keep a minute of silence in honor of the three fallen on the black night of the Immigration of 31 January 1996. Today is the anniversary, the Greek Parliament is meeting today, the heroes must be honored. Please see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. On the substance and in discussing these draft laws, there can be no tax justice in an unjust socio-economic system. At the same time, we have here in Parliament in recent years sanctions of tens, hundreds of such conventions, multilateral and bilateral. The result, however, of all these contracts is debatable. Not only was tax evasion not limited, not only did the tax havens and the funds parked there not confine themselves, but they have been widened, and economic inequality has been widened globally. 1% of the richest people own 86% of the world's wealth. From this point of view, they are hypocrisy for all these bilateral and multilateral conventions that come, when the governments that bring these contracts are at the same time in every way supporting the interests of capital, business groups, with investment laws, tax laws, labour market overturns, financial support packages and a number of other possibilities offered by the large capital. From this point of view, the extensive tax immunity enjoyed by business groups, the liberalisation of capital movements at a pan-European and international level of goods and services, the various secrets, from economic, business, banking and tax secrets, are precisely the food bills of tax evasion of the various tax havens. Of course, the greatest tax havens exist at the moment in the countries of the European Union, within the European Union, and from this point of view, it is also hypocritical that, at the moment, an impeccable competition is unfolding to whom to attract tax havens. After all, the Panama Papers and all the others have entered the competitive position, because in the United States too there are huge states, regions, regions, states that want to play this role. And something that has passed to the committee too, but has now been mentioned in a way, is precisely the curious attitude of the Golden Dawn, speaking of sensitive personal data, an e-mail for the citizens. Who? The ones in the tax havens? But there's no unemployed, no self-employed. There they are shipowners, they are industrialists, and they are a number of such factors that do strange economic jobs, illegal economic jobs. This whole interest in the Golden Dawn for individual rights is a little strange. Who wants to protect? Maybe her donors? From this point of view, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against these conventions for the reasons we mentioned before and for no other reason. Of course, we cannot accept the proposal of the Golden Dawn about a minute of silence, in that the Golden Dawn has painted its hands and historically with a number of issues that have shrinked and tarnished the very territorial integrity of our country, its sovereign rights in Cyprus. Of course, it is hypocritical that all this interest, since the imperialist factor, the Americans and NATO, even in our region at that time with the Imias who played a decisive role, but also today, are trying with nationalisms, precisely in his logic of "dividing and fighting" to create animosities and controversies among the peoples, so that they can just put their seal on developments. From this point of view, the Communist Party of Greece stands in these events, in the light of the rival of imperialist planning in the wider region, as it is now with Skopje and Albania, but also with the Aegean and our region. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau's proposal is to close the sitting with one minute silence in honor of the men who fell in Imia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, could I have the floor for the draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, in order to overcome the problems of the Rules of Procedure, we have resorted to the practice of making reservations. We did not want this, but we did not have another way, because the practice was not improved by the way this House operates. We have therefore resorted to the means of formulating reservations, in order to have the floor in plenary because, when these texts come up for ratification - 'data' within the meaning of the political agreement - the timeliness is shaped, life flows and it is not possible for this House to meet and not put the finger on the type of suns on issues that concern society as a whole. Firstly, our rapporteur, Mr Maniotis, expressed his views on the specific two sanctions for Liechtenstein and San Marino in a very characteristic way, saying - and I would like to repeat what he said - that the exchange of information on issues related to tax evasion and tax evasion is very positive as a process. In this sense, the two conventions that we are currently dealing with are in a positive direction, but, as my colleague said - and I stress this - we cannot believe that, in the context of the European Union, the European Commission, but also the Member States, in relation to matters relating to public finances, but also to the common budgetary policy that is an objective, will go through for many years still through such detailed agreements on alpha or beta, on tax havens and tax evasion. This cannot go on. They are good and positive steps and the government is doing well and bringing them here. But they are not the steps we need. We underline President Macron's proposals regarding the formulation of the common financial area and the Minister for Finance, which this common financial area entails - because the Minister for Finance, without a common financial area, makes no sense - to secure the deposits through the creation of even more advanced interchange cooperation and through the creation of the new financial system in Europe and so on. Mr President, without this, all the other agreements that the Greek Parliament will ratify are correct, but they do not solve the great problem in the field of the Eurozone, which goes through the debate on the transformation of the European Union. Of course, each of us is obliged to take a stand on what is being discussed. When the question of forming a government in Germany is over, I think that the way to this debate will be opened. None of us will be able to avoid her. I would also like to stress how good the proposals made by President McCronn are in many respects. Now, as a parliamentary representative, Mr President, I would like to make a reference to the issue of FYROM in relation to the noun. As a Democratic Independence we have held a very serious position. I dare say, Mr President, that we are all together, even though we are still in the process of forming our common political area, have held a very responsible attitude, having not created problems, having not created such problems on a very serious subject of our foreign policy. Allow me only to criticise a phrase, saying that the incoherent start of the issue from the government - I have said so on another occasion, presenting the State Secretary - has created problems which have been deprived of the Greek effort. However, following the meeting of the Prime Minister with Mrs Gennimata on Saturday, our choice was to keep too low tones, of course, to talk about the need for a comprehensive solution and not about the fragmentation of the problem which is not in line with the line that our country has and, apart from this emphasis on the need for a comprehensive solution, to keep low tones again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I am taking the floor on this, Mr President, and I am closing down because this consistent attitude was returned to us with what Mr Christides described yesterday as a provocation. Our attitude to an issue of the utmost importance that requires unity of the political forces hastened to call it pro-government mood and availability. In fact, there was a front page yesterday saying: "The Kammenos is leaving, the Genuines are waiting." This Mr. Christides called it a provocation. And I underline that characterization. We're not giving anyone a board of salvation. Only in the country have we given all our powers and we will give them back in order to be able to move in. But we do not give a board of salvation to parties who want to remain in the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying that Mrs Gennimata's statements on Saturday and last week, which are critical of the government's practices, are critical of the Nimic proposal to fragment the problem, are keeping the seriousness very high in relation to this problem of our foreign policy. The statements made yesterday by Mr Simitis, the statements made by many of our officials, my own statements from the beginning of the creation of the issue in December and January, hold up the bar of unity and the need for understanding, keep up the bar of effort not to undermine the position of the country. And we call on the government to get serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u17	I would simply say on behalf of the Bureau, Mr Loverdo, if you will allow me, that no one will give any food to these publications. Indeed, an acidification that is inappropriate can be fed. This acidification is not useful. I have the floor for the State Secretary for Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, international cooperation on tax evasion is essential in today's globalised environment. In many cases it is impossible to deal with the issue with national legislation or even with bilateral agreements, at least at European or international level is required. In recent years there has been a major international effort within the framework of the OECD and not just for the exchange of tax information between states. This exchange makes it very difficult to hide incomes. The effort also contributes to the pressure of the revelations, such as the Paradise Papers we had in recent times or the Panama Papers that were older. International public opinion now tolerates less and less tax immunity that some countries have easily and unreasonably given in the past. There is, of course, still a long way to go. And the exchange of tax information is a single weapon and not a panacea to tackle the problem of tax evasion. The draft laws we are debating today are also part of a major international effort in particular: by ratifying the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those of Directive 2003/48, which was ratified by Law 3362/2005, and the corresponding amending Protocol to the Agreement with the Principality of Liechtenstein, which was ratified by Law 3365/2005. Joint declarations by the Contracting Parties shall also be ratified. Such agreements have been made by the European Union with other countries, which have either been ratified or ratified in the coming period. In more detail, the Amending Protocol to the Agreement and the Annexes on due diligence rules by financial institutions shall also apply with San Marino and Liechtenstein, as has already been done with other countries, to the OECD standard for automatic exchange of financial account information. In particular, the basic concepts governing the automatic exchange of financial account information are defined. The automatic exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union of San Marino and Liechtenstein, which includes the elements of the beneficiaries, accounts and insurance, as well as the amounts of interest, dividends, other income arising from the sale or redemption of financial assets, shall be established on an annual basis. It is laid down that the exchange of information will cover the year 2016 and subsequent years. Provision is made for cooperation between the competent authorities, in particular in cases of incorrect or incomplete transmission of information or non-compliance of a financial institution with the reporting and due diligence obligations. The protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the confidentiality of such data shall be ensured. It is intended to resolve any issues arising in the application or interpretation of the Agreement by consultation between the competent authorities. It is important to note that automatic exchange of information will take place in the light of the protection of personal data and the safeguarding of the confidentiality of information. This is why the proposed provisions are in line with the provisions of Law 4170/2013 ‘on administrative cooperation between Member States in the field of taxation’ and Law 4428/2016 on the ‘Multiple agreement of competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information under the OECD’. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has made decisive progress both in harmonising Greek legislation with European directives on automatic exchange of information and in ratifying multilateral agreements at OECD or bilateral level such as FATCA with the United States of America for the same purpose. The two current sanctions of agreements with San Marino and Liechtenstein follow on from this policy and effort, in order to strengthen cross-border cooperation to tackle international tax evasion and avoid tax evasion, to find a taxable place where it is located, to improve tax compliance and transparency in the international tax system and, ultimately, to avoid what is currently happening, to achieve a fair and rational tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Preparation of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u24	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u28	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u29	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is also concluded here: ‘Modification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u33	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u34	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u38	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’, has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u39	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u40	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u41	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Loverdo, the meeting is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u43	I would like to speak on a point of order. As far as the new systems are concerned, I would ask you to have an update on their operation, because it is not meant to have a roll-call vote and have a far-reaching effect. Make an effort as a Bureau to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u44	Understood. At this point the Bureau is proposing that we keep a minute of silence in memory of men who have been responsible for defending national sovereignty. [[All Members of Parliament stand up and observe one minute's silence]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-31-S1-commons.u45	With the consent of the House at 10.37 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, February 1st, at 9.30' time, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law: "Privatization of the Act of Completion of the National Bank of Greece's Donation Convention in favour of the Greek State and the N.D.". N.A. "The Evangelism - Ophthalmiatric Hall of Athens - Polyclical".
