ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Research and Technology is tabling its report, in accordance with Rule 43A(5) of the Rules of Procedure. [[The above-mentioned report is in electronic format in the archives of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] I also have the honour to announce Thursday 25 January 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 881/23-1-2018, a topical question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on "Results of Assessment of Public Officials". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 876/23-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Would you at last deal with the problem of thousands of our fellow citizens who are not retired due to debts?" 3. Under No 875/22-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "The project to attract visitors to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,289,618 and the project to improve the street Pournaria - Kyri - Mygdalia, of EUR 500,000, is expected to be announced". 4. The Question No 915/23-1-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the compensation for pensioners of the OSE. 5. Under No 871/22-1-2018, a topical question by Congressman I, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the sceptic issue?". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 882/23-1-2018 by MP Kastoria of New Democracy Mrs Maria Antonios to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Enhancement of the Regional Unit of Kastoria". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 868/19-1-2018 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Reimbursements of Argolida farmers for damages caused by hails". 3. Under No 870/22-1-2018, a topical question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "New travel tickets by means of the public transport of Ath.ena ticket affliction of beneficiaries of a reduced ticket". 4. The question by number 916/23-1-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanouil Synchronakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct need for cleansing and flooding on the River Iofiros and the streams of the area Xiropotamos - Agia Giannis Kostos - Maladon - Phoenikis of the Municipality of Heraklion". 5. Under number 917/23-1-2018, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area". 6. The Question No 853/16-1-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Contracted vendors of the archaeological site fund". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 821/15-1-2018 by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Application of proposals, funding path, timetable for work on new works on conservation, restoration and promotion of cultural monuments in Samos Law. Sustainable recovery planning’. 8. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas, Member of Parliament, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.)" Pyonia’. 9. Under No 847/16-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Annobria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers'. 10. Under number 782/10-1-2018, a topical question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “When will the digital signature be applied?” 11. The question asked by Mr Georgios Kasapidis on the upgrading of agricultural education in Greece under number 749/8-1-2018. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2002/12-12-2017 by Vice-President and Deputy of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the opening of the new National Museum of Contemporary Art (EMT)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1586-27-11-2017 question of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the "Decision of the Board of Directors". of the Centre for Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to expel trainees from the Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Education (SME)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, following the annexes thereto'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u3	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u4	In the parliamentary order, Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u5	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a ratification today. We have also been placed in committee. Our reservations are why and how this procedure is being conducted. With regard to this ratification with the countries of Peru and Colombia, of course, it also has very important instruments such as the elimination of trade distortions, a barriers to trade. This is a sanction, to which the European Parliament had already given its assent since December 2012. It is therefore clear that there are delays in these agreements in all countries. At the same time, our bilateral relations with these countries on many issues are serious and that is why we need to develop a number of issues even more. Since the European Union's trade with Colombia and Peru will increase, while reducing its costs due to a reduction in customs duties, new opportunities are provided on the basis of this ratification of activity in European companies. The result is also made for our country on the basis of the rules of the agreement. Greek interests are guaranteed by inclusion in the Agreement on the protection of traditional products, for example, rules of origin. This agreement, like all similar agreements, is therefore of a positive nature, let alone for countries which have already developed bilateral relations, such as those which exist. It is of particular importance, of course, as we have told you, that the elimination of distortions in trade, which is a barrier to trade. Above all, respect for democratic principles, fundamental rights, the rule of law, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by establishing free trade zones. So who can be negative on these issues? There is one question, which we often ask about the sanctions for these agreements, whether there will then be a monitoring of their ratification. Such mechanisms must also be developed here in Parliament and in the Ministry as well, so that the sanctions in question can be monitored and, of course, you can also inform the House of what other European Union countries have done in relation to this sanction. I think, therefore, that there is a wide-ranging consultation on these issues, and that this process should, in essence, be promoted more efficiently and more quickly. After all, you have recently had a meeting with your Ministry and the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the relevant Foreign Minister here in our country. I'm talking about Colombia. It would therefore be appropriate to inform the House of the results of this meeting. I say let you know, because, as we see, there is a general information deficit for our country's foreign policy in Parliament, in the political forces. So on this matter too, let you know. As required, Minister, please inform other issues. Today we have the Prime Minister's meeting with the Prime Minister of Skopje, Mr Zaev, on another issue where there is incomplete information from the political forces of the country, a lack of information from the Greek Parliament about where the negotiations are and where we are right now. So because you are here today at such a critical moment - I understand that you cannot say what is going on in the negotiations at the moment in detail - you can give a signal where we are and what our country is looking for. The criticism we have made is that you have not sought it and there is a bilinguality in your government. But SYRIZA says but ANELs say in this particular issue of name, Macedonian. But you say between you two government partners. So say what the government's position is. On the other hand, we have New Democracy, which until a few days ago was talking about a complex name and under the weight of the rallys he gave directly to a change of attitude. We do not really know at the moment what the position of the New Democracy is on this matter. We stand firm in our own position. We are the force, which has been responsible from the beginning. We do not change our attitude under special circumstances. We have spoken of a complex name that is used against all, so that regulations are included, which will prevent all of these elements from being used. We've told her all along. We haven't been tempted to talk about names. We invite you to negotiate effectively on this position. We believe that you would have been much more effective if you had had a national line today and had agreed, in fact in private, in a framework of negotiation, in this context, away from nationalisms that exist, far from the irreversible procedures that we see many times in the neighbouring country. So all this must finally go ahead in favour of a solution to a complex name. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, in the past few days with a detailed intervention, Fofi Gennamata has explained to you why this attitude is a genuine patriotic attitude in favour of the country's national interests, in order to resolve this chronic issue of the name, to develop bilateral relations with our neighbour, to finally make use of our country's strategic position in the Balkans, to stop being recognised by dozens of countries with its constitutional name, to proceed to a complex name and in this context to resolve this chronic problem. At last, SYRIZA and New Democracy retire at the occasion. SYRIZA, the government, doesn't have a single line today. Ministers of the ANEL Government supported the rally. Against who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Theoharopoulos, I'm sorry for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u8	We simply don't have to go too far, because it's outside today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u9	It's not out of the question. You will allow me to say that the foreign policy relationship is very much in this regard, especially when the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs is here. In this context, of course - and, on the other hand, beyond SYRIZA, we have New Democracy, which does not contribute, especially after Sunday, to the existence of a national line within the framework defined throughout the 2000s by the complex name for use against everyone. We call on you to negotiate effectively in this context. To negotiate effectively and at last inform the Greek Parliament and the political forces, as should have been the case since the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Cassidy has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u11	We have also put to the committee negatively, and we are voting against the ratification which is being discussed today and which is, at least, graphic, to talk about trade agreements with underdeveloped countries, such as Peru or Colombia, for 'new roads', as stated in the explanatory statement. What trade routes? What, then, is the production of the specific countries mentioned? We all know that these countries are producing products which are moving on the black market throughout Europe, especially in Greece. I would say that it is no coincidence that hard drugs, as in Colombia, would like the present government to legitimise them and, if necessary, even to abuse these products even by members of the Government. We therefore say 'no' to this sanction, because there are trade routes to open for Greece and these trade routes are not in Latin America. They are in Europe, Russia. We could make a sanction for exporting agricultural products to Russia so that Greek agricultural production can live. The question of the days, however, is that there is a strict folk mandate, a fresh people's mandate given to the whole political system by hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens, who stink that Macedonia is only Greek. Some people thought the people were sleeping. They thought that they devastated the people with Survivors and the decadent TV by-products of sub-culture and Greek-Turkish co-productions and did not do that. The people may not have gone out on the street for wages and for money, but they went on the road and got up for the maximum national issue of our Macedonia and it was magical time, when hundreds of thousands of Greeks in front of the statue of Alexander the Great brontophoned "Macedonia is Greek, punk traitors politicians". This is the slogan of the days, especially today that Tsipras in Davos gives name, he grants history, he grants national sovereignty. The people are resisting. Golden Dawn, yes, is in the forefront of this race. We as ordinary Greek citizens and not as parliamentarians supported this struggle. The only thing is that Macedonia, as it drowned xenophobic communism in the years '46-49, when the Greek Army, the Greek people, the Macedonians, the xenophobic communist rebellion, was crushed today in exactly the same way as a government, which has now become a subtle of Slavic nationalism. This is the message of the Golden Dawn, this is the message of the rally, which was an expression of Greek nationalism. A government minister quite rightly said that this is how nationalism was expressed. It was an expression of Greek nationalism which is developing, which has now rooted in Greece and very soon the fruits of a struggle for the national sovereignty of our country, the fruits of this Golden Dawn struggle and the Greek people will be seen in a country whose name, history, national sovereignty will not be assigned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Mr. Tassos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u13	As we have in committee too, we are voting against this convention, because in the name of the competitiveness of businesses it requires cheap labour, manipulative and subordinated labour and the infiltration of capital in the countries with which this Convention is signed. And these are relations which do not serve the interests of neither the workers nor the people's classes, despite the interests of every country's bourgeoisie who sign these conventions. Therefore, they are relationships of inequality and harmful to the vast majority of the people of each country. Now, in relation to the issue of the nomenclature, the descendants of the 'hits', the tambeats and the german germans, the Nazis, are really going too far today to be the patriots and that they are defending the interests of our country. In relation to the name of the JRC, we have been clean since 1992, contrary to all the other political forces, who are then known to have accused us of 'all but Laekens' of not participating in these nationalist rallys. So our position is clear, as far as the name is concerned: Complex name with strict geographical identification and, of course, with the elimination of all the alkali positions from the Skopje constitution. But for us the sovereign is not that. The sovereign is that the precursor has now caught all the urban world joining Skopje, Macedonia, NATO and the European Union after and in order to do this, all the other moves are made. For us, this is a very negative development, because participation in aggressive imperialist organisations, such as NATO and the European Union, not only does not solve people's problems, but it complicates them. And proof is what is happening in our country in its relationship with Turkey, that the participation of both in NATO not only has not solved the problems that concern our country in relation to Turkey, but has complicated them, since NATO is well-known to not recognise a border in the Aegean. Therefore, the 'grabbing' of the zones and all the problems that arise from this participation in NATO, beyond - and this is the most important one - that NATO's aggression in our region is strengthened, because NATO's objective in our region is to surround Russia and defend its interests, that is, the interests of the urban classes of NATO-participating countries. So for us this is the dominant, this is the 'forest' and the name is 'tree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u15	Will the Parliamentary Representatives speak after the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u16	Let the Minister precede and then speak to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u17	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u18	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u19	For the economy of the debate, I was thinking of placing myself once. If Parliament's representatives want to be posted then I will obviously respond to what is to be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u21	The agreement we are debating today is one of the new generations of so-called trade agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries. It therefore includes not only trade issues, but also issues relating to the quality of democracy, rights, in an upcoming region of the world, which is nothing but underdeveloped, as I have heard. In fact, we have a shift from the economic global centre of gravity from the Atlantic and the Euro-Atlantic relations to Asia and the Pacific, and especially to the subcontinent of South America, where Colombia and Peru are one of the locomotives of economic development. I have had the opportunity to refer to the debate that took place in the committee on parallel historical paths taken by these countries. The revolution and liberation of Great Colombia took place in 1821, the same date of our revolution, and since then, due to the parasitic condolences that the bourgeoisie had there and because of the influence of the United States and political history had similar characteristics. This is a region wider than South America, which has special love, not only in ancient but also in new Greece. Our political relations, especially now that all countries have returned to democracy, are very good, that economic relations are lacking, and this treaty will strengthen their capacity to improve. I visited Colombia last autumn and, as Mr Theocharopoulos rightly said, followed a visit by the Colombian Minister for Foreign Affairs, followed by a visit by our Minister for Foreign Affairs to that country. A more general effort is being made to condone not only political, but also economic contacts. This trade agreement is also a protectionist agreement for the Greek interests. There is specific protection of five products with geographical indications, Kalamata olives, Chios mastics, Sitia olive oil, feta and ouzo, and since, as I have said, this Treaty does not concern only trade relations, but also the protection of international labour and environmental standards, the movement of workers, our economic interests are protected in the best way possible. I have also been asked to inform you that the agreement has been ratified so far by twenty-four Member States and we will be the twenty-fifth. And this agreement has been provisionally implemented since 1 March 2013 for Peru, 1 August 2013 for Colombia and is open for signature for the other two Andean countries that have different positions. I shall briefly refer to the objections which have been raised, on the major issue of the days, the Macedonian. First of all, I would like to make it clear that one is the government's position on this issue, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is negotiating. Differences have been expressed from the second party, which participates in the government coalition, but has been explicitly given by the mouth of the leader of this party full confidence in the Foreign Minister to conduct the negotiating effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u22	Who? Ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u23	Are you defending Skopje's positions, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u24	I didn't hear you, so I'm asking you. Are you talking about Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u25	I am talking about Greece and I said that the Minister of National Defence and the Chief of the second party of the government coalition with an explicit statement has declared its absolute confidence and support for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Let us now see what the negotiating position is. I will read to you - precisely because this is not an issue that we should seek to score points for each other, but a national issue requiring unanimity - what Mr Mitsotakis said in his second language on 11 July 2017 in the debate on the Cyprus issue. It is interesting to quote, because there Mr. Mitsotakis wanted to be ironic to Mr. Leventis, who said "not a complex name, Macedonia". I read for instance: "Mr Leventis was asked what is the official position of the National Representation on the issue of the name of Skopje. Mr. Leventis may be old in politics, he is young in this Chamber and he obviously does not remember that there is a official position of the Greek Government, validated by the National Representation for a complex name geographically defined for all uses, Erga omnes." This is the official position of the National Representation, as reflected in the Karamanlis government's programme statements in 2007, a position that was again ratified in Bucharest. This was repeated on 9 January 2018 by Mr Mitsotakis, before this turn of the New Democracy begins, which I too would like to identify today, since I have heard conflicting things. I have heard a position of relative responsibility from Mr Koumoutsako, which I believe expresses the party's view as a relevant sector leader and which I personally applauded, namely that he considers the complex name and today the least common denominator of government policy. However, I have heard - I do not want to name them, precisely because I do not want to maintain a climate of division at this moment, but try to have a national front - extreme opinions, extreme right-wing opinions, nationalistic views, which deny the core of this position and say a place that the late Constantine Mitsotakis had described as extreme, that they do not want the word 'Macedonia' and its derivatives to be present in the name. These are two different things. It is what the memorable and current Mitsotakis have said to the House that it is the national position and that is what I hear from the Golden Dawn, from the Centron Association and last of all from you. So I too would like to hear what your position is. As far as Mr Theocharopoulos' complaints are concerned, diplomacy is obviously not made public. Mr Mitsotakis said this at another time - it is one of the many contradictions of the New Democracy - speaking at the Conference of International Transparency in December 2017. That's where he said diplomacy couldn't be seen in public. And so is it. Why are you accusing us of an information deficit? We have said that we are negotiating on the basis of national positions. We believe that the main issue is the question of aluterism and we must be redeemed from pervertism. Aluterism's vehicle is the name, it's not the only issue. A response to this should therefore be given today. The rally went to Greek patriots. The rallys, however, were attempted to guide a line that is different from the national one. That's what we have to say. We have complete confidence in the Greek people. The Greek people, however, must have the information they need. What was said at the rally as data is not accurate. There are no seven hundred thousand Greeks and even descendants of Alexander the Great in Skopje, as it was heard. France did not veto the United Kingdom with its constitutional name in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u26	How many were the Greeks in the monastery in 1912?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u27	You're right about 1912. But, listen, you'll be able to get the floor again when I'm placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u28	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u29	Indeed Macedonia, before the Balkan Wars and before the exchange of populations, had a mixed population. But this is not the case today. It's obvious. And I'm coming back. It must be heard when the Greek people speak. But, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you must have the same respect for the Greek people when it protests, whatever its origin. You referred to your party's disciplinary officer, a new party of yours because he described the Skopje as "apes" and the announcement that you made to justify this correct disciplinary prosecution you named those who participated in the demonstrations against the memorial "bought". You do not, therefore, legitimately call the Greek people when they have different views from your "borrow" and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u30	Who said that? I was a government representative, and I never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u31	I'm not talking about you. You didn't notice what I said. I said that in the disciplinary prosecution conducted against the member of EMU, who called the Skopje "apes", there is an explicit reference to those who made the "boat" of the upper and lower square. If you want to be differentiated, in your honor, it will be and I will applaud it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u32	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u33	It's an official announcement from the ONNED, Mr. Georgiadis. It is, of course, to check it out. To conclude, I want to tell you that there is no secret diplomacy. We are negotiating on the basis of national positions. It's hypocrisy to say there's an information gap. When did a political leader ask to be informed and not informed by the Prime Minister? As in the confidential documents, which some of you made fun of, violating the Criminal Code and, in particular, the national interests of the country, we have, in this case, enabled the parties' leaders to have access to the documents we have invoked. Everyone must be responsible and not irresponsible in national matters. National issues must be dealt with seriously, because when they are not dealt with in this way, we have this effect of the twenty-five years, which is unfortunately burdening both parties who have been conducting government policy over this period. These led to today, where the vast majority of the UN and European Union countries have recognised the neighbouring country under its constitutional name. It would be easy for us to seek to score points by undermining the national case, by counting one by one of the responsibilities you have both parties who have handled this case over the past twenty-five years. We're not going to. I do, of course, have to listen to the statements made by the parliamentary representatives. But I appeal to your patriotism. I consider you all patriots. Watch how you handle this. That's when I've been sceptical so far. But be careful. Other patriotism, other patriocapacae. Being a patriot, other than having patriotism as a profession. We will be at the end of a series of issues that you, the two post-multiple parties, had let them glean from forest maps and landmarks to sharia and insurance, which we solved in the way we thought were nationally correct. Inertia and stagnation do not help national issues. We, and on these topics, want to move forward with the nationally advantageous solution, which is the solution that will ensure a name clearly distinct from the history and Greekity of our Macedonia, a name which cannot be an airtight vehicle and a global solution, not only with erga omnes name, but also with the removal of any practice from the neighbouring state, which shows that you see in our borders and our territorial integrity, because that is what is essential. I urge you, even at the last minute, to show the same national responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Please, let's coordinate this conversation a little. Since the Minister has opened the debate, all the parliamentary representatives will be present on the matter you want. Please do not extend beyond two or three minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u35	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u36	Two or three minutes. It's by way of derogation. Also, I see that Mr. Cassidy has asked for the floor. Mr. Cassidy, it's just not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u37	If there is no problem, Mr Pappas will give me his position as a parliamentary representative, so that we do not abuse the time. Because the Minister raised a personal matter by saying to me: 'Take the floor and answer me.'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u38	He didn't tell you on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u39	If there's anything personal, I'm withdrawing it. I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u40	No, it's a big deal, and it's about the Greek minority in Skopje, and you said to me "let's answer". Mr President, for a moment, please. Right now, Skopje...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u41	He takes the floor and speaks directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u42	Wait a minute. You will speak on behalf of the Golden Dawn. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u43	Good. I'm waiting for my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u44	Good. Mr. Javarra, do you want to start as Mr. Xydakis said he wanted to be placed in the end? You have the floor for three minutes and please do not extend any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you have missed an opportunity here today to inform you, even at the moment, of how the government sees the big issue of its decisive contribution to the resolution of the national issue. Instead of telling us, even at the moment, when the Prime Minister of the country talks at noon with his counterpart in Skopje, you came here to continue with this brutal, ruthless confrontation, with which you have chosen all these days to move towards your political opponents. At the same time, you are abdicating us that we are not helping to resolve this issue, which is really a major national issue. Such behaviour cannot be regarded as responsible or serious. You should finally realize that in national matters it does not benefit, on the contrary, this nation, this tactic you have to use any issue of topicality, as important or insignificant as it is, in order to divide the Greek people and show that you are something special from all the political representation of this place. You're not offering anything, instead you're harming it. And this damage has already begun to give its results. You should finally realize that the name is a very serious issue, but also a serious issue is dealing with this issue as a package. This is the position of the New Democracy, not now, but since the issue was created, and of course it is a consistent attitude, based on the position that the government backed in 2008. What matters to us is very important, and you must finally understand that you must explain to us how you are being tempted, how you are claiming, how you negotiate the resolution of the issues that are to be addressed by Skopje against Greece, especially by how and with what specific moves there will be to eliminate or alter their constitution, to the extent and extent that these views are legally guaranteed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You should also explain to us what your position is on the Macedonian language, what your position is on Macedonian nationality, what your position on statues, with books, with a number of issues, which, of course, you have actually been pushed back to the margins of this debate, because what really is of interest to you is to divide the Greek people against a particular issue and to tell everyone who has a different view of being nationalists, while you are patriots. Finally, come to your senses! This is not a way of dealing with such a serious national issue. You should realize that the nation and its history right now require you to be the greatest commitment to these goals that history imposes on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u46	Please, Mr. Javarra, complete. You've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. From coming here today and pretending to be the honourer, we had the requirement to come and explain to us, not the secrets of diplomacy, but why you are using secret diplomacy. It is another matter of what exactly diplomatic manoeuvres you have decided to make in the negotiation and another issue of what the objectives of the negotiation are. And these very goals of negotiation, the Greek Parliament has the right to be informed by you, who are the government's main minister. We urge you in these critical times finally to show the responsibility that the circumstances require of the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I am a party parliamentary representative who has been kept in committee. So, regardless of whether the Minister would make this speech or not he would mention the FYROM, I had the possibility of a five-point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u50	Because the special speaker from your party has been placed, the debate has been generalized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u51	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u52	I'll give you three minutes and you'll have tolerance. Mr. Javarras arrived in five minutes. I won't give you five and you'll talk seven!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no! You'll give me five and I'll talk a little bit more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u54	Don't make me on vacation!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, we are in plenary session.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u56	It's just that the five minutes have been derogated. The special speaker has been placed. Mr. Loverdo, come for five minutes and please, please, all my colleagues for the time economy. It extends the debate very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, five minutes is for those who disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u58	We didn't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Paphie, Mr. Loverdos was reserved. He is well known for parliamentarianism. We're not talking about it. I just want to remind you, Mr. Loverdo, that you have five minutes for Colombia and the draft law, not for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u60	I will not take time to discuss the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. If you want, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u61	If it were on the Rules of Procedure, the debate should have ended in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u62	Of course, you're right to generalize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u63	You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, there are two conventions to be ratified, which are European Union conventions with Peru and Colombia. I mean, it's a contract, but with two countries. Our intervention, the intervention of reservation, was intended, as we have repeatedly assured the House, to be able to go beyond the Rules of Procedure and to speak in plenary. Because political life has great tensions and diversity and therefore the plenary cannot function in the absence of reality. That is why we reserve it, so that we can have the floor in plenary. That was our reservation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theocharopoulos has, however, formulated the committee, but also today, the invitation to the Minister to tell us the contents of the discussions between the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Colombia and Greece. His reference to the committee was a series, and today's mention of no references to specific issues of very useful importance, to issues of family, to commercial and economic relations. But there are also political issues. Political issues are expressed and imprinted in the United Nations. We have Cyprus, we have Greek-Turkish, we have FYROM issues. It would be appropriate if the Minister would inform us whether these issues have been raised in our discussions with Colombia and what this country's attitude is about what we are talking about at the United Nations level. I would today, as a Parliamentary representative, make a reference to the Prime Minister's meeting with the Prime Minister of FYROM, in the sense of the question to Mr Katrugalos - if he was able to answer - the level of maturity that has been reached by the debate between the two countries and within the UN, on the subject of the name and other issues, as has been cleared by the Democratic Integration and Potami, or whether it is a meeting on the occasion of Davos and, therefore, the debate will not come to the core of the matter. And I would finish there, because when the Prime Minister talks with another Prime Minister, I think it's not time for opposition. And Mr. Theocharopoulos moved exactly in his speech, which I heard. It reiterated what we are saying and criticised the government - which is all - on issues that have already been said many times. But the Minister took the floor, finding the opportunity to 'internal' once again to prove that all the way they handled this issue - diplomatically and politically unacceptable - is done for internal reasons. There are clashes, protests, gatherings, fighting with Civic Opposition, but no one knows, apart from the country's main positions, where the negotiation has gone. And are you giving us today the hand and the finger to tell us and how we should behave, you who last week when I happened to listen to you at the Standing Committee, said that Nimic's positions were distorted and are not the ones that we read in the press, and one day after the United Nations Ombudsman, speaking to the FYROM media, made reference on his proposals? I'm asking! - related to the "Macedonian nation", as it was described, by addressing FYROM's society and politics. This intervention, which prejudges the negotiation debate, has been deplored by all sides in Greece. And one day before you justified him. You said, in fact, that what he says is perverted. You made a bluff, that is. We wouldn't tell you today. It's been a while. But did you come here to criticise Opposition and not refer to common positions that could help the country? So, if you so wish, we refer to the following as to your side: First of all, you are the epitome of hypocrisy. Why? Because you're talking about providing information. Who? None! And as a Democratic Participation and as a River we have also kept on this subject, information, a very responsible attitude. When the Foreign Ministers met, Mr. Demetrov and Mr. Kotzias, and when the proposals were tabled by Mr. Nimic, we called for a National Foreign Policy Council. You didn't respond? We did not insist, because when a government negotiates, it also has the responsibility of information issues. So there remained a gap. We did not make any political criticisms and controversy, because you did not tell us. We suggested, you didn't accept, it's over. Are you going to tell us from above here today that there's a lot of information and it's our fault that we don't have it? Maybe you're not going well. However, if you do not go well for reasons of confusion, it is neither the plenary nor the opposition. And you're still talking about an issue that you inherited. What do you think? What about the Cyprus issue? What about the Greek-Turkish, we inherited from our ancestors? Are we going to succeed against our ancestors who have created them for us? What are you talking about? Anyone who takes over the Greek state, state and society has an obligation to deal with our issues and our issues are serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Loverdo, you've been talking for six minutes already. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u66	It's the Cyprus issue, it's the Greeks, it's the FYROM issues we have to deal with. What are you talking about here? That you are also the solutions to a problem that others have created, while you are the best solution to the problem? What's this? Each Minister for Foreign Affairs takes on a agenda, doing all he can to solve it. We have tried to congratulate everyone on overcoming the problem that has been created over decades with Albania, in terms of honour to our dead. And as Minister of Education I had tried, and I, all of our diplomats had tried...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Loverdo, you're embarrassing me. You're already in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u68	I would ask you, Mr President, to put yourself in a difficult position, since you have generalised the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u69	I'm not in a difficult position. Five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u70	You'll allow it to happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u71	But this cannot be done with all colleagues. I mean, if I make a distinction to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u72	You will allow the parties that were and the reservation on the main issue to be expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, you got five minutes, not more. Right now, you're talking seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u74	I'll finish. If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd still be done with a few phrases.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u75	Please, you have thirty more seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u76	So I say that, when this issue was resolved with Albania, we rushed to congratulate everyone, diplomats and politicians, because they are attempts for decades to honour our Albanian people. And finally we did it, and I want to see to what extent and to what extent. When citizenship was given to Archbishop Anastasio, we all rushed to tell our good talk. We had no such behaviour in the past. Do you come here today to lift the finger when you have violated every rule of political and diplomatic ethics? Finally, you have to understand that foreign policy issues are solved in so far as one government has two positions - one which one government on the other has positions - we do not know them - that the positions coincide and that all the political forces or most, informed in a flawless procedure, give each one its shoulder, put back on our homeland to solve one issue. To swear to us, to swear, by alpha or beta, people who have expressed their opinion, and I conclude, Mr President, what does it state? It states that your arrogance has reached such a level that you believe that when a politician, a citizen, a party expresses an opinion, it contradicts you. Who counts on you, Minister, to be so arrogant and to think that we are against you when we say an opinion? Who told you today to make this arson speech in plenary? You have your confusion to overcome, because that will only help our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor. I'll give you five minutes to be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u78	A few minutes ago the Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL committed a national crime. I would ask that his phrase concerning the Hellenism of Skopje be withdrawn and deleted from the Minutes, because - and I will prove this right now - the Greekism of Skopje is numbering many hundreds of thousands. Could not the Minister of the Greek Government tell Parliament that there are not hundreds of thousands of Greeks in Skopje, when Kiro Gligorov from the beginning of the 1990s, speaking to the Czech press, had said for a hundred thousand Greeks in Skopje, when the Bulgarians report to OSCE about two hundred thousand Greeks in Skopje, when in 1912, at that crucial moment for our nation, when the Greek army was walking towards the Monastery, led by soldier King Constantino, the population of the Monastery was purely Greek. He wasn't mixed. The population of the wider region of Manatre was purely Greek. And I ask, what happened to these Greeks? These Greeks remain in the region, despite the pressure from the Slavs and the communist persecutions, and today - I stress it and I repeat it - the Greek population in the wider region of the Monastery and in the entire state of Skopje has many hundreds of thousands. Mother home has an obligation to support these Greeks. Of course, I also take into account the blatant ones. I ask the Minister to withdraw directly and to delete his relevant phrase from the Minutes. As far as the issue of supposed negotiation is concerned, for the naming, can I say that when we hear negotiation from SYRIZA, we are certainly hiding all Greek citizens who have realised that, where there is a negotiation of SYRIZA, we are mathematically leading to national mobility and the assignment of national positions. Because the Minister invoked secrecy, we have asked this position for more than a month now - when Kotzias was present, and we were discussing the indisputable behaviour of state actors in the Erdogan visit - with an official document and a request to the Committee on Foreign and Defence to hold a closed, confidential meeting, without cameras, to inform all the political forces of where this government is going and, if you like, to place the political forces, because I will then analyse how the world and the government partners of Annell and the New Democracy are being mocked. Our request has not been accepted. We reintroduced it last week at the meeting of the committee responsible. Again silence and indifference, because we are led to national moderation. Of course, there is also the Foreign Policy Council - it is mentioned permanently in this Chamber - from which, I stress, Kotzias has illegally and unconstitutionally made crime and disgusting energy say that it excludes Golden Dawn. It makes sense, of course, to move it, because the Golden Dawn is the only party that is practically resisting this illegal attitude of the Government. As far as ANELs are concerned - because their Minister said their government partners disagree - to say this: if ANELs disagreed and did not want Macedonia to betray, they would do a simple energy: Kammenos would go to Tsipras and say to him: 'Alexis, do not go any further because I am throwing you. I take my MPs and we leave." And there would have been an end to the Skopje issue. If Kammens said 'I take my MPs and we leave', we would never talk in here about Skopje again, it would have ended. But it does not, because the chair of power for this party is more important than Greece's national positions. New Democracy: What is the position of the New Democracy? Complex name. When the Chief of the New Democracy officially comes out and says "red line for us is Bucharest", it certainly accepts the complex name, of course, and accepts the assignment of the name "Macedonia" to Skopje. But when they say that the alperatorial references to the Skopje constitution should be removed, these are ridiculous. Because the Skopje can today eradicate the corrosion references to their Constitution, Greece can make the national crime of lifting the veto, no Greek veto, and after Skopje enters NATO, they are voting for a new constitution and they say they are claiming Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the solution to the issue of the name of the state of Skopje is one: Greek veto, not to get Skopje into NATO. The centrifugal tendencies in this state will immediately lead to a Slav-Alban conflict. Here now the Golden Dawn produces foreign policy with this report and we invite you to follow this proposal of the Golden Dawn at last, and stop going into the House in false controversy for voting. The veto should continue, Skopje should be led to civil war, and then Greece as a force of responsibility in the Balkans and the Greek Army as a peacekeeping force will enter Skopje. What was not done in 1912 with the Venizelos - Constantine dispute, which, of course, led to the liberation of Thessaloniki, but left, unfortunately, under foreign occupation of the Greek Monastery, in the coming years. If there was a national government with vision, that's exactly what would happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u80	I'll be done. What's the solution today? Referendum. The Undersecretary, as a constitutionalist, knows very well that in many countries, such as Albania - where I think he was involved, as consultant, in drafting the constitution of that state - with fifty thousand signatures of citizens, a referendum is held. Here we have the signature and the explicit command of hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens from the rally calling for a referendum, where the "no" in the assignment of the name of Macedonia will be overwhelming. Already systemic polls, sold polls of interconnected media, speak of over 80% of the citizens who disagree with the name's assignment. If a referendum is held, I say that more than 90% of Greek citizens will fanatically join this position of Golden Dawn, with the clear national position that says 'not in the assignment of the name 'Macedonia', not in the assignment of our history, not in the assignment of Greece'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Mr. Pafilis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u82	Since the Minister said that the Greek people should know well and be informed, we just want to inform him of the issue that has arisen and that nobody can see from all the developments that exist in the wider region and especially in the Balkans. Before I say this, however, the Greek people must know that all - and those who organise the nationalist rallys and others, the world politicians and the specific parties, the rest of this House - do not question the accession of this country to NATO and the European Union. The precursor he has caught and the government - we do not know what agreements he has made in the United States of America - is related precisely to this. Because the United States of America and NATO are also interested overall and other forces to integrate Skopje into NATO and the European Union secondly, with what aim? In order to close Russia's curiosity, because it is obvious and everyone knows that in the Balkans major competitions are being crossed by major imperialist and other forces. That's obvious. Secondly, neither the SYRIZA - ANEL Government nor the New Democracy nor the PASOK nor other urban parties question the opposite. They are all working in the same direction, to drown Serbia in order to join NATO, in order to reduce the Russian influence on the Balkans and to exclude it completely. This is the game that's played and leave the rest. There's one more thing. There is a great interest on the part of the Greek business groups that are already in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with investment of billions, according to official figures - may be even greater - making use of the accession process to win, i.e. to put more foot in the region to ensure great profits. That's the real substance. And now they're asking NATO to solve the problem! They say that there will be security and that the problem will be solved when it comes to NATO and the European Union and the rest is overcome. Really, does the Greek people have to forget who destroyed Yugoslavia and exacerbated this problem? Didn't NATO crush it and then come out of other states? Has it not changed the borders that had been formed since World War II and today you tell the world that he is a guarantor of the borders? Indeed, the government, which is supposed to be left, has now fought for road and competition with New Democracy for who will put Macedonia in NATO. Don't you tell the people that? What will NATO ultimately ensure? Does it not use the Länder, all minorities, for pressure to serve its own interests both in the Balkans and throughout the world? Is this unknown to everyone, or are they too much of the JRC? Is it a story, or is it now? What is he doing today in all the Balkans and throughout the world and in the Aegean and everywhere? Is there a border guaranteed anywhere? Does it guarantee safety anywhere or is it a protagonist of interventions, despite internal conflicts in NATO member countries? Here there is a lot of hypocrisy from SYRIZA as far as the rally is concerned. Firstly, the government partner is involved in the rally. What's that? Secondly, do you remember in 1992 when the coalition participated in all the nationalist rallys? At that time, the Cyrus had said that everyone was involved, except for Lakedaimons, that is, excluding the JV. What did the Communist Party of Greece say then? He said that the source and the reasons we have these problems are NATO's intervention in the Balkans, that the nomenclature is disorientative and that, if there is to be the name 'Macedonia', it should only be geographically defined. What are the main things without underestimating this? The main thing is, firstly, that there should be a mutual guarantee of no change of borders from that state and from our own country, secondly, that the arrogances should be removed and, thirdly, that we do not recognise a Macedonian nation as there is no Macedonian nation. Of course, the main thing for us is that the peoples and Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Balkans should in general see who is the opponent, who sends them to a war slaughterhouse, who divides the region, what has been created in the Balkans. It is time to draw a lot of conclusions from the war on Yugoslavia. Does the name "Bodstil" mean anything to you? It is the largest American base in the world seen from space, this and the China Wall. What is in the area, a security guarantee or a "gulater" guarantee for American interests in the region? That's what we need to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Palhei, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. We also had a right, because we were disagreers and did not do a trade union trick to talk. We deserved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u85	The party's special speaker has also been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u86	The Communist Party of Greece, therefore, tells the world that it should be on guard. He has to close his ears in everything, both in and out and see who's the real opponent. We have nothing to break up with people or workers. Those who send the people to the slaughterhouse who can also send them to the Balkans in the future and to the wider region are those who possess wealth, business groups, your system, where 1%, according to yesterday's figures, owns 86% of the world's wealth. These are the people's killers. They send people to the mob so that they can control the wealthy sources, the roads to transport energy, and geostrategically also to control the whole of mankind. That's where the Greek people should turn and pay you with everything you've done. Why, after all, because some people left from '49 to '92, why didn't anyone talk to Greece? Wasn't it called the Republic of Macedonia? Why was that? Because Yugoslavia had clashed with the Soviet Union and why the Americans and NATO were ordering no talk. Yes or no? And now some patriots have come out...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u87	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Xydakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u89	Did any of the Greek governments raise such a matter? The 'no' seems today and it seems retrospectively how this has come about. And again today in the same constellation: NATO and the Americans and the imperialist guarantors of the peace and friendship of the people. You're butchering there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for five minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, the fiftyness of democracy is free expression. The Minister spoke to us earlier about numbers and information. I take this opportunity to answer him. What does it matter how many people the rally had? I'm telling you why you talked about numbers when you got up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u92	I didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u93	He had as many people as he needed to get the message and the government and the opposition. It was so crowded that the numbers and numbers don't matter. He has had so many people, as he has never collected any such event in the last ten years for a protest. It had so many people that the government would be forced to hide the reality and the media would not show exactly what they had to show. It had so many people that no party can rob this world, because this world held the Greek flags in its hands and did not hold parties. He had so many people and the simple man who went there, protested one thing, shouted one thing: "Macedonia is one, Macedonia is Greek". That was the message that passed the rally of Thessaloniki. This will be the message of the Athens rally. When you talk about Macedonia to the people of Macedonia - as a Macedonian MEP, I speak as an MEP - you don't talk to them about their wallet. You're not addressing their ideology. When you talk about Macedonia up there, you talk to them about their father, you talk to them about their children, you talk to them about their faith itself, you tell them about their history. It is not in the same balance as national finances. And if, in economic matters, we can tell any excuses, we are blackmailing so that we can sign them, in national matters, there is no blackmail of any kind. Mr President, we were in plenary last week and we had called for the replacement of Mr Nimitz's government. Yesterday, a topical question was tabled by the Association of Centres at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we must be answered by the Greek Government if and if he has confidence in Mr Nimic's abilities to give a solution to this matter. The Centro Association, Mr President, is the only party that does not need to rethink its positions on scaffolding - and I stress it on scaffolding rather than Macedonian. It has taken a clear, clear position from the outset, when the Greek Government's mistake really started this debate - which was not right to do, it was not right to take this area, which it has taken, because it actually puts the government in a difficult position itself, but it was wrong to say that we do not accept any use of the term "Macedonia". For the Central Association, the use of the term "Macedonia" means, in itself, the continuation of anti-pollution tendencies. We have no expectation that even if the alpha-corrosion tendencies are removed from the constitution of the neighbouring country, even if its books change, the name "Macedonia" in itself gives rise to alperatorial tendencies. We are therefore not giving any use of the name, no synthetic, no geographical designation by the name 'Macedonia'. We will also be present at the Athens rally to demonstrate this: that we are not giving off and that we are not selling anything! You will allow me, Mr President, and that is what I want to close. With regard to the position of Officer Opposition, the future government, is this a position? Another 9:00, another 11:00, another one, another one today? Is it the position of a political party that wants to govern the country and who wants to make decisions on national issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Saridis, and the consistency in time. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be brief on an issue which, of course, is of no benefit to me. They benefit from the discussions, they benefit from the exchange of views, which is done, however. For about a month now, on the basis of the UN's mediation initiative on settlement with the neighbouring country, there has been a political debate based on arguments over time and twenty-five-seven-seven-seven-year-olds. The political debate is now taking place. It gets very rich, and sometimes in some ways, perhaps harder. But, as the great political thinker Machiavelli says, "the troubles always result in good laws." Even from this confrontation, in these ways it takes, we'll get out richer. We will be able to re-understood the issue, understand what the long-term interests of the country are and the role of the country in the region as a sovereign country guaranteeing security, prerogative and stability. Furthermore, I hope that the major anti-population and present-day olives who have handled this critical issue over the past few decades - who have now found a chance with cries, glasses and these neonazi elements, which have flowed out of the shade along with the gorgeous, sarcassous and shields - will have to discuss and discuss this with greater maturity. There are opportunisms and behaviours of various obsessive, self-justified professional ministers of all time, who always find a way to move and light fires, the same fires that light up the political underground and the political sub-world now being dealt with. We must not give an opportunity to this political underworld, which is on trial for crimes to come out and set the political agenda. Let anything else remain within the democratic space and the powers of the constitutional arch. And let us tell the Greek people, who listen to us very carefully and with great pain and the pain that has passed since the eight-year history of the recession, unemployment and "capitalisation" that it is not a field of overcompensation for the big issues of national policy and foreign policy. We can also find convergence paths and paths of agreement seriously and seriously. There is no need at the beginning of the 21st century, in this critical turning of Greek history, of Greek society, to return to the unfortunate warfare of 1897, to what led to division in the first quarter of the century, to what led to divisions. There's no one's word for battling. And stop saying it. These are issues that have troubled the recent Greek history politically, they have put governments down. There are numerous evidences of prominent politicians and conservative resignation and central and left. It's all written with boldness and courage. Everyone's said it. Be careful what he has said in the House, in reply to George Gennimatas, Michael Papaconstantinou. Youtube's got it. Instead of seeing various smugglers and cork swinging in the squares, as they have the right, let us hear what the politicians who handled the top issues at that time and many of them live and live between us and still think and reason. We are all aware of the political significance of the situation in the Balkans since 1990. We have the retrospective knowledge. We have other equipment right now, other priorities and still our role is hegemony and a key role in the region. Let us think about these and the micro-party confrontation or exaggeration, let us leave it to the ancestors of Brigadier Ioannides and all the junta, to those nationalists who always betray their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, as you requested, to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer to the beginning of three questions - how you negotiate, debate content, level of maturity of the negotiation - not because I believe that the respondents do not know - why responses have been given from this here on a number of occasions and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs - but in order not to create impressions in this climate of hypocritical complaint about secret diplomacy. The way we negotiate, we have often said it is double. The debate under the auspices of the United Nations is continuing. However, precisely because we are one of the forces that want to resolve this issue, we have said that we are stepping up the dialogue on this subject and also energizing the intergovernmental channels. There have already been two meetings between the Foreign Ministers. Today in Davos there will be a meeting at the highest possible level of government executives among the two Prime Ministers. The content of the debate is purely for the promotion of national positions, as is well known. On the level of maturity: so far there have been six cycles of discussions, in addition to what I have said, at the service level, to build confidence measures, not at the core of the issue, but at the promotion of policy issues, such as the press's cross-border and financial issues. Finally, I repeat what I said: No further information has been requested by the Prime Minister. It is clear that, as long as the negotiations are under way, there is no public mention of the level at which the debates are being held. I am now going to some things that I think have been heard and need to be commented on. It is absurd when Mr Gligorov himself has accepted that the people there are Slavs and Albanians, that one of us, even on the side that came, have hundreds of thousands of descendants of Alexander the Great in Skopje. It's irrational. It's an acid-like shape. It is essentially contrary to what historical reality is. Mr. Loverdo, you weren't there when I spoke to the committee. But you could look at the Minutes. Because in these matters we must be responsible. I referred to the statements by Mr Cassidy, who said that Mr Nimicha had called the neighbouring Macedonian state. And he also said that this has been accepted by our side. I said that this is a double distortion, because Mr Nimic never called the neighbouring state 'Macedonia', and we have never accepted any name at this stage of the negotiation, much more Macedonia. Third and last. What's the national position? The one I have repeated many times: a complex name to allow for the complete distinction of historical Greek Macedonia from the neighbouring state and for the complete removal of any manifestation of pervertism. I have always heard from Mr Javarra about repeating the same thing. I did not hear the word 'complex name'. I, because - and I say again - the crucial thing in these times is to have national consensus, let me say that he forgot it and through omission he confirmed the national position. Finally, what I said about the political costs that often entailed the decision to resolve the issue and not solve it, in the first decade, that was obvious. I will read to you, because I do not want to blame political forces, what exactly Constantine Mitsotakis said about this in one of his last interviews. It is an interview with Stavros Jima who published in “Kathemerini”. Signed: "Constantine Karamanlis was in line with the mixed name". I now read the statements made by Constantine Mitsotakis and will be tabling them in the Minutes, it is well known to you. "However, when the issue of Macedonia was overshadowed, it turned 180 degrees and insisted that the word "Macedonia" should not exist in the name of the word "Macedonia". And then I came to a break with him and said to him: If you come with me, I will go ahead and solve it. Because I had two votes in the government. If Karamanlis said yes, they would vote. If he said no, they wouldn't vote. So I did not have a majority to solve it.' Please for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, George Katrugalos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When I spoke earlier about the inability of the two major political parties to resolve this issue, I was referring precisely to it. It's like they said to each other - and just before Constantine Mitsotakis died, he said it openly - that they knew what was right. What they didn't know was how to re-elect the government if they did the right thing. We are prepared on national issues to promote what is the patriotic solution and the national solution, because Solomon tells us that 'we must consider what is true', not what is best for us, not what is more appropriate for our next election expectations. I always respect the sensitivities of the world, and it makes sense after eight years of misery of the memorials, when the Greeks feel an insult to their dignity from the corresponding reduction in our democratic sovereignty, that there should be a part of the world that does not have the necessary information, the tendency to reject agreements, even those which are nationally possible and that can result in a solution. We must therefore be particularly responsible for us as representatives of the National Representation. I conclude with one final reference to the attempt to pervert from the extremists - I hope not from the whole of New Democracy - a turn to abandon the position on the complex name, in his statement that it is now much better than in 2008. Anyone who believes that is fooling themselves. The situation today is worse than in 2008, because the tide always does not help the intention of the cases. More countries have today recognised the constitutional name of the neighbouring country than in 2008. And in 2011 in the PASOK government, The Hague ruling was issued at the Court of Justice of The Hague, which you know its content. There are legal and political ways to deal with. The UN Secretary-General has already said that the neighbouring country is not going to join NATO under its provisional name. But you know that. So you cannot call for a rapid improvement in the situation when you know that the situation has become much more complicated and much more difficult today and yet, because we are the power of change, of power that wants to solve things, and again we will seek to bring forward - to the extent that it responds, of course, the other side, because it was rightly stated here that 'two conditions require the tango' - finally a solution to an issue that should have been solved since the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned: 'Under the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, following the annexes thereto'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u103	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u107	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, following the annexes thereto’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u108	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u109	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-24-S1-commons.u110	With the agreement of the House at 11.31 p.m., the sitting on Thursday 25 January 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Bull.
