ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 1 March 2018, the minutes of its 2nd meeting of Thursday, 1 March 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Provisions for the production of Final Products of Cannabis Pharmaceuticals and Other Provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 5 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1156-27-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, entitled "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1160-27-2-2018 topical question of the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Health, on "SOS for the pathological clinic and the psychiatric section of the General Hospital of Nice Piraeus". 3. The 1152-26-2-2018 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Without provision for the protection of first residence, the circular for electronic auctions from 1-5-2018." 4. The 1148/26-2-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Approximately EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.’. 5. The 1147/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on “A permanent solution to the insecurity and payment of workers in cleanliness and feeding to hospitals of “PAGNI” and “Venizelou””. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1158/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on "Measures for the dental treatment of disabled children in the island." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1161/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes". 3. The 1162-27-2-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Support for wounded producers in Vianno, Ierapetra and Sitia, etc." 4. The 1166/27-2-2018 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of children at the General Hospital - Ikaria Health Center". 5. The 1153-26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the PASOK Democratic Association. - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'What is the fate of the 'OLTH S.A.' cash reserves of EUR 65.108.327,16 after the transfer of the majority of public shares to private individuals?' 6. The 1157-27-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former camp Karatsiou". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1165/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on measures for the proper functioning of the Centre for the Health of Mitilini. 8. The 1167/27-2-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To pay the former employees of ATE all that they owe them." 9. The question, by number 1143/26-2-2018, by Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis (Charis) Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Insufficient national policy on cancer treatment and the lack of innovative oncology". 10. The 1123/20-2-2018 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Georgiou Vlachos, to the Minister of Health, on the application of claw back to all contracted and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors - suppliers of medical devices. 11. The question by number 1108/20-2-2018 that was asked by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on "Death 26-year-old prisoner in Larissa". 12. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Concerning developments regarding the sale of the AUGIA “NATIONAL”. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1112/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 14. Observed. The Question by Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, dated 998/6-2-2018, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". 15. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, with reference to the Minister of Finance, concerning: 'Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?' 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 1007/6-2-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of lack of personnel, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi. 17. Under number 948/30-1-2018, a timely question by MP Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy by Athanasios Davaki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Building a new teaching course for the Special Training and Training Laboratory (EEAEK) Mystras". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 2290/28-12/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to proceed with the maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary of Heraklion (Court of First Instance/Privacy Building)". Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mr Ioannis Maniotis of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR - is seeking permission. In particular, the application shall be as follows: Mr President, I would ask the House to approve an absence permit from Parliament's work from 7 to 8 March 2018, due to my being transferred abroad. (Participation in the S&D Conference on the Future Finance of the EU Budgets, 07-08 March 2018, Brussels). Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the second question under number 1154/26-2-2018 in the first cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Proposals for tugboats which the ELPE demands in order to accept the offer of their services to the refineries of ELPE in Pachi, Elefsina and Aspropyrgos’. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis will reply to the timely question by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for your prototype, with tolerance of time because it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish for a good month to those I haven't seen since yesterday. Minister, with the item from 16-6-2017 under the management of BEA - BEE under their number 130046, which I have here and will submit for the Minutes, the "ELELANDS PETRELAYA", without prior consultation, they claimed tugs that will offer their services at their premises in Paghia, Elefsina and Aspropyrgos since 1 August 2017 to have specific technical specifications, specific firefighting force, age not exceeding twenty years, as well as to move not with one, but with two propellers. These specifications are particularly strict in relation to the requirements laid down by the law, but also with regard to the specifications laid down by the "ELLINIKA PETRELAYA" and claim for the provision of the services themselves at their premises in Thessaloniki. After your intervention, Minister, there was an extension of these measures, because their immediate implementation would obviously lead to a distortion of competition for a particular consortium, without other shipowners being able to adapt, since in many cases this would even require a new towing of around EUR 2,50 000 and with a production time of more than eighteen months, so you can understand that for at least that time these companies could not operate and have jobs. The extension granted yes to the power of firefighting and other technical specifications of the upgrading of the towing vessels expired on 31 December 2017 and towed vessels, as we have been informed, have been adapted accordingly, and the time limit for age and movement with one propeller expired on 30 June 2018. In addition, and according to internationally accepted, a towing tug in rotating funnel does not fall short of attractive and visceral abilities in relation to a diprele. With the coming 30-6-2018 implementation of the requirements of the “ELELANDS”, we will probably have the following, to deceive about sixty tugs and lose their jobs of three hundred crew members and a hundred and twenty office officials. It is certain that a monopoly will be created, resulting in daily landing costs increasing to an excessive percentage, and the difference to be passed on to product prices. In order to avoid unpleasantness, we therefore propose first of all that the "ELELANDS" should postpone for at least one year the application of these two standards, which are all but necessary for the proper supply of the services in question. With this postponement, there will be the necessary time for consultation between the parties concerned, as well as for examining the matter by the relevant departments of the Ministry, which draw up a new institutional framework for the operation of the tugboats. After this, Minister, I would like to ask you: What have you done in the immediate future, and what do you intend to do in the near future, so that this whole matter can be settled after consultation of the parties, in order to prevent these harmful consequences for the whole of society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much to the Vice-President. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my good colleague, who has been struggling for a particular sector, that this case has not been detained, because it has been pending since 2013. Since 2013, a question has been raised to the Legal Council of the State if ELPEs, given that such an action had been prior to Thessaloniki, can unilaterally proceed with the formulation of specifications, on the basis of which they consider that the safety of shipping, the approach of ships to the beds and a number of other conditions are ensured, in order to ensure that this whole process is safe. So they've been aware since 2013 that things have been going one way. After all, in Thessaloniki the ELPEs have moved on for some time to a change in the operating regulations of the tugs. I want you to know that the Ministry has no competence in this area. The Ministry has competence for tugs connected with the ports of the country. I'll tell you in my denture some things we've done there. The Ministry, therefore, despite the lack of competence to intervene in the activities and options of a public limited company such as ELPEs, intervened in order to help, facilitate the adaptation. While there was a decision by the ELPE to start by 1 August 2017 to change the rules of operation, with very precarious - if you would like - consequences for some of these professionals, we intervened, we intervened, we tried - it was not simple - to persuade the ELPEs to change their minds and eventually we managed and took a year of extension. We agreed with all parties - to be honest here - that this time should be used for adjustments, such as the fire-fighting systems and the change of those that are old. Of course, you refer to the timely question that there is no age limit anywhere in Europe. If you look at it, yes, it is, but in Europe there is no tug of such ages. Even on the ships that make rock in Europe, there is indeed no age, but there are no ships over twenty - twenty - five years that make rock. Here we have ships - and that is why we have had to regulate and limit the age - which are fifty and sixty years old. I would like to say, therefore, that the Ministry did everything it could, Mr Colleague, to intervene in order to take a transitional year so that these people can adapt. What I could tell you is that I would again make an effort to make a prolongation, but that cannot be discounted because, as you can see, we are dealing with an anonymous company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that I have been waiting for your answer on the seriousness of the matter, on the assumption from your side as well as on the knowledge that these companies should have before, and that you will also make an effort to launch a clear solution. Before I begin to haunt things, I would like to say that there is a great difference in relation to the tugs - and you know it very well - and with the rock ships. We are talking about two quite different things. What I would like to refer to, in order to help me in the whole debate and in your arguments to be able to split up this extension and agree on all parties, is only passenger ships, and this is thirty-five years, in accordance with Article 164 of the Code of Public Maritime Law, which does not exist even if they fulfil the maintenance requirements laid down in the European Directive 2009/45. In other words, maintenance is the essential prerequisite for providing proper services from towing vessels rather than age. This position is also reinforced by the fact that the European Regulation of 2017/352 on the provision of port services, which will apply from 24 March 2019, does not set an age limit. I would also refer you to the provisions of the General Ports Regulation, on the basis of the 1993 FEC 336 Issue B and in particular paragraph 3 of Article 4, which states precisely: "Wools which... belong to or serve exclusively the needs of refinery facilities, etc. are not required to be supplied with a towing port licence, for which only for the granting of the licence is required up to the age of 20 years.’; So in another arrangement we see that the age of the towing vehicle does not play any role. Apart from that, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the document at issue from "Greek Petroleum" does not even sign it by the CEO, but only by the traffic manager. Please pay attention to what it decides and orders on the basis of this document: Applying specifications that are completely in conflict with the applicable Special Port Regulations. The categorisation of the tugs in such a way that an unbelievable person would say that it is for a particular type of vehicle and that we should go to a monopoly right, that is. It surprises and puts ultimatums on owners - which is why you could argue and say they have known since 2013, as you mentioned in your prototype - in companies, in staff, even in entire families. This does not mean that it is an easy solution and an economically viable solution, based on what I have told you and, of course, leads to the majority of the companies in the sector who cannot move on to buy new vessels and all this without feeling the need to notify us of even a technical study to which these specifications will give rise to so as to justify the proportionality of its decisions. We believe, however, - firstly - that it does not appear from anywhere that a very well-preserved towing towing vehicle - even more than twenty years old - cannot safely carry out the specific towing task required. Secondly, it is not possible for a private company not to consult the laws and to choose who will try and how in a free market. Thirdly, it is not possible for only one person to decide that owners should lead their tugs to dismantle, their staff in unemployment and their families in hunger. That is why, Minister, I would like you to tell me who makes the decisions in this country and who decides the safety of shipping and ports. The state by means of the laws of its own Minister - clearly we in this regard agree - or are some people sitting in a chair, taking a wage, living away from the real problems of workers and possibly serving some interests? I think you will find a solution, and I am sure you are, because you are close to the industry and to the citizens' families. I hope that we will find an immediate solution in the future for this. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, Mr Colleague, I understand the interest. I would like to assure you, with all honesty, that the Ministry is willing to try through dialogue between the parties involved and through the mediation that there is always a solution. What I want to say to you, however, is that the information you have is not accurate, namely that age is not predictable anywhere. Law 4150/2013 in Article 71 provides that tugs must be less than twenty years old. The Port Regulation also provides for something similar in Article 150. There's been this overrun. That is why, as you should know - and I believe you are aware - there are two associations in the area, which conflict with each other. One pressures the Ministry to make changes to the regulation so that there can be a renewal of the fleet and the other insists, defends, tries to find various ways to keep the situation as it stands. We, because we do not want to consider or consider others' actions that we are pertinent to possess the only truth, set up a committee from all parties in order to move forward with the ports regulation and the towing regulation, so that we can find a more intermediate solution than what the ELPEs are trying to do. That is why we are already in a consultation process so that we can find the golden incision that does not create this suffocation in many. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that I will again take an initiative and make an effort, as I did last year, if I can convince the ELPEs to find some time of extension. That is what I wanted, with respect for your concern, to testify. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the General School of Keramias Kefalonias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Unfortunately, you have come to the end of the sitting. But if you do not go away, we will explain to you what we discussed a moment ago. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Georgiadis, has asked a timely question to the Minister of Shipping in relation to the old age of tugs, which helps the stones. Perresis is the approach of the tankers to the ELPEs, to the "Greek Petroleum". It also referred to the ages of these vessels, that is to say if we can continue to license vessels over the past twenty to help the tankers approaching the refinery facilities of the ELPE, or we should go to a new fleet, to new permits. To understand that the government, when making decisions, must be responsible for the solution it will give. With regard to jobs. If we don't license older ships, then a hundred, two hundred, owners and employees will be out of work. This will be a great financial burden for their families. If we give permission directly to new vessels, which are far less than old ones, the cost of oil rises. Because when it is accurate to turn the tankers, the cost is transferred to oil and to the pockets of all of us and your parents. So, as the Minister said and committed, there will be an extension to find a proper solution. We need to modernise tugs for reasons of environmental pollution and more modern and more powerful machines. At the same time, we should give time to retire the old so that old employees don't lose their jobs, all the executives, all the sailors and the crews of the old tugs. However, we also need to have a sufficient number to ensure that the towing costs of tankers are not increased and that we do not have increased oil at the end of the day, all of us in society. The Minister pledged after Mr Georgiadis' question that he would give an extension and tell the ELPEs that we should give some time to renew the fleet, which is inevitable. As you can see, we must have new, stronger vessels, but also a sufficient number to serve the needs of the Greek state. The first under number 1155/27-2-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Finance of water networks in Heraklion" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: service trip. Also, the third question under number 1081/13-2-2018, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a Hazardous Waste Landfill area in Megalopolis, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelou. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-02-S1-commons.u11	With the consent of the House at 10.23pm, the sitting for the next Monday, March 5, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
