ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 29-3-2018 authorisation, the minutes of the sitting of Thursday, 29 March 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and Endogenous Violence, and the adaptation of Greek law, II. Incorporation of 2005/214/JHA Framework Decision, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to penalty payments and III. Other provisions on the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and other provisions.’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Charula (Haras) Kefalidou, Mr Dramas, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES. [[TAKE PAGE 2a]] B. SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS IN BUILDERS' REQUIREMENTS.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that the following topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of Ministers: The fourth under number 1407/27-2018 topical question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Athanasios Vardalis, on the subject: "In uncertainty, the shipowners in front of the deadlocks of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) resolution programme will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. The fourth question under number 1261-6-3-2018 of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Surviability of the Factory of the Greek Industry Sugar of Orestiad" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development. The second under number 1378/22-2018, a topical question from the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the dangerous waste of "Greek Gold" in "HYTEA", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Stathakis due to a workload. The third, with number 1388/23-2018, top-stage question for the first cycle of the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling of tobacco within Greek territorial waters", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first one under number 144-27-2018, the second question of the Dodecanese MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Construction within areas of jurisdiction of the administration and port exploitation bodies", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first one under number 1403/27-2018, the first question of the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No discrimination in the provision of credit and debit cards", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the third, with number 1080/13-2-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The erosion of saints and effects in coastal areas of Achaia”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. The second question, with number 1396/26-3-2018, will be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "An inadequacy of the government in the management of the Refugee - Migrant". The Minister for Migration Policy will answer Mr. Vitsats. Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would first like to wish Mr Vitsa a success, who is the first to come to Parliament to reply after taking up his duties. I hope, at least, that he comes to Parliament and does not need - like his predecessor - to table three, four or five times the question to finally come and answer the questions. Minister, it is true that we are living in a situation in the Aegean islands which is explosive. What we have been warning all over the previous period, namely that our country can be the weak link in the European Union - Turkey agreement, to be our islands a field of pressure on Turkish foreign policy and finally to become Turkey's disposal, seems to be happening today. This concern is also expressed after the invitation made by the Prime Minister to Mr Avramopoulos to visit him today at noon to discuss, as is apparent from leaks and journalistic networks, this changing Turkish mood. It is true that you have abandoned the islands. You have abandoned an agreement drawn up in 2016 - two years now - between Europe and Turkey. You have abandoned it unpreparedly against any changes in the moods of the Turkish side. And if we saw three hundred people coming to Lesvos the day before yesterday, panicing the whole system, the local authorities, the Moria authorities and the central authorities, imagine what will happen tomorrow if five thousand arrive. There is no preparation, Mr President, for what will happen if the rate of flow changes. Already in Moria there are about six thousand people living in a hospitality centre that can't raise more than three thousand people. We visited other colleagues - and SYRIZA - a few days ago, within the Council of Europe, refugee centres in Jordan, Minister. Eighty thousand people live in camp in Jordan, free, organized. I was ashamed of myself as a Greek for the conditions that we have provided to Moria or Samos, where people really live in scenes in the muds, when we have such brave funding and when the problem has not been explosive in the last two years. Two years have passed since this agreement was drawn up. You have not returned a sufficient number to Turkey to say that this agreement is working. A thousand six hundred people are back. And you are even under the charge of the architect of the Europe-Turkey Agreement on how the Greek Government treats them. I would therefore like you to tell us what you intend to do to address this issue. After your tour on the islands, you should also tell Parliament with concrete measures and not wishing for it. Secondly, tell us what will happen with this planned change in the way asylum is awarded. For about nine months, since last summer, there has been a change in the procedures for granting asylum. These are changes that we have proposed many times for a quicker process, so that people will not be left unresolved for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u4	Please finish, Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u5	Mr. President, I'm closing. I don't see the pressure. There are no other colleagues here. No other Minister appeared in parliamentary control, so you can give us the opportunity to make the debate a little more comprehensive. I don't think we're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u6	But look at the Rules of Procedure. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u7	There is a change in the way asylum is awarded. There have also been specific press packages that adopt a large part of the New Democracy's proposals. He was going to come by Christmas. He didn't come. He was going to come to the genarus. He didn't come. He was supposed to come in February. He didn't come. It's over in March. Are you gonna bring them or not? And which one are you bringing? Because again we read in the press that SYRIZA's internal opposition reacts to any such changes. In fact, fellow Members say that people who are illegally living and working in our country should not be arrested and deported. It's a question we submitted to you. So tell us what your position is as a new Minister for Immigration Policy. I hope your experience with the Ministry of Defence is in the right direction and constructive for the real nationally alive problem of immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u8	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Varvitsiotis, as you know, during the period between the 21st and the 25th of March I visited all five islands. I saw the situation. It wasn't a situation unknown. As you know, we participated with the previous position in the construction of reception and documentation centres, in the accommodation and residence of these people. Of course you - and we can also discuss it in dentistry - must admit that much has happened between 2015 and 2018. But the situation is difficult and I will not deny it. And if you want me to put a ranking, the greatest difficulty exists in Lesvos, mostly in Moria, immediately afterwards in Samos, Chios, Kos, Lero. I've seen the institutional factors, the mayor's vice-presidents. I saw the civilians. It was my duty to see the citizens who have been outside Vial for some time and to ask for some sort of solution and I described the plan of the Ministry, which is not a stranger to the plan prepared by Yiannis Mousalas, for the necessary decongestion of the islands. I'll give you some basics. How will the islands become decongested? Two ways. One way is for those who are entitled to come to mainland Greece and those who must return to Turkey on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey or countries of origin, to return. If I need to talk to my dentist about the specific media. What is our need in this period? It's about speeding up procedures. And that is in the interests of refugees and immigrants. How are we gonna do that? First of all, we will strengthen both the primary asylum committees and the secondary appeal committees. What's our target? We've already done two-and-a-half-two permanent staff hires. At the same time, we will renew the conventions - we have this right because they do not enter the process 1 to 4, 1 to 3, as regards the refugee - of all the people who are currently in the Asylum Service and the First Reception Service, after we have resolved some outstanding issues with regard to their finances. At the same time, we are bringing a new law to the House, which simplifys, speeds up and organises the asylum procedure, so that what we call two levels - which exists in the Netherlands, also exists in Germany and everywhere - is implemented. This law, I hope, or I am sure, will be passed by the end of April. On the islands we have other issues that I mentioned - perhaps unfortunately, I do not know - that we need a balance of rights. What do I mean? That we take care of the rights of refugees and immigrants, but we also take care of the rights of islanders, but perhaps of the people of Evros. Our objective is in a sense, firstly, to be compensated - the law provides for compensation from what has been left since 2016 - and secondly, to have a development programme. Already the Ministry of National Economy, through the relevant Minister, Mr. Haritsi, announced a large development programme, which was poorly accepted by local players. And already the fence of VIAL has begun, the procedures for the sewage pipeline in Moria have proceeded in agreement with DEEAL, i.e. the municipality, and it is already going through the large sewage project with funding through the ESDP and the Asylum Service in Lero. There's a lot of them. I don't want to talk about it. The last project is worth over six hundred thousand euros. Secondly, if this is the outline of the plan - and I would be happy to give you much more detailed things - and because we are dependent on the flows and because we have to accept that the heart of the joint declaration between the European Union and Turkey is that there will be money for Turkey to stay and care for these people - and returns are a corrective mechanism - and because we need to take very clear measures as our great opponent is the smugglers, they are the traffickers. So at this level, we have to give a great, I would say, battle. However, because we are dependent on the flows we must also have a plan - and here it is the plan, but I cannot read it in Parliament - about what will happen to the possibility of increasing the flow. Do we have an increase in the flow? We do. In the first quarter of 2018, the increase is about 33%. It's not terrible. Can we accept what the President of Turkey says, that refugees and immigrants can be used as a lever for pressure? Nor should Europe accept it, nor should the UN accept it, nor should we accept it. However, we have a plan at this level. And I close, Mr President, by saying that we also have an additional plan, the draft of the national immigration and refugee crisis strategy. I have already had the opportunity to have an initial debate with Mr Patoulis, because local government is a key participant and not a single person in this process, and legislative intervention will also be needed in this respect, which will be presented to the committee responsible and my aim is to become a national plan. In other words, I would like to say that the refugee issue - rightly you said - is a national issue. It has within it and politics - I would say - confrontation, but as a whole, on the issue of its management it is a national issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I have heard from the Minister a package of promises which the islanders have heard, as you quite rightly said you have gone to all the islands and visited them and talked about. If you want one advice, implement them. The islanders are tired of promises. Mr. Muzalas has arrived at some point that he cannot land or land on any Aegean island, because people are tired of the hollow promises. For example, the promise of the Moria waste water pipeline, Mr President, has been made for some time now. A 450,000 euro sewage pipeline cannot be built so long. The result is the bolt of Mytilini has been enriched. It's taken 5.5m euros, because we can't build a 450,000 euro sewage pipeline. You took it a few months ago as Deputy Minister of National Defence, that the army would do it as early as December and has still not been implemented. I hear it as a promise. I also hear that we need to hit the traffickers. You go to Turkey, first of all, and say 'we do not want any more'. Make advertising campaign on Turkey's coast and say we don't want to, that Greece is not capable of hosting you. Mr Muzalas went to Turkey, saw his counterpart and in his statements he made later, he did not say, sending a message to the three million refugees who are currently trapped in Turkey, that "we do not want you to come to Greece". Do it. Make a strict policy on the traffickers. The arrests are minimal. And even longer, the procedures for the administration of justice. You raised the issue of the Armed Forces. When will the Army continue to have the responsibility of feeding? When will the Army cover the weaknesses of a ministry that was set up to prevent the operation from being military anymore? We don't live the emergency needs of 2015. When will the Army sit down to measure every day shares and work at a time when national issues and the protection of the islands are given special character? With regard to local authorities, I would like to say the following: I wish you could involve them. We have been shouting since the first time that you have excluded regions and local authorities from managing the issue. They are excluded from funding, they cannot take any part of the responsibility, because you have chosen that some non-governmental organisations should do the job. I wish I could hear it. I have so far seen no step forward in the administration of local authorities in the management of the refugee, regions or municipalities. Finally, Minister, it was Mr Kammenos who threatened Europe a few years ago that we would flood it with immigrants if we did not do what we want. Today we are listening to the threat from Turkey. I would like to remind you of this, not to ask you to be placed, but to understand how wrong you have been managed for too long, with wrong symbolism and wrong weapons, a matter from which we are waiting for Europe and its support and support and its political pressure in Turkey and its funding to meet the needs of the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u13	First of all, I would like to insist that my predecessor, Mr Muszalas, has done a great deal of work on a subject that is usually a daily challenge and which you must respond to. You know that and you know that much more, because I prefer to discuss with Mr Varvitsiotis, who was the rapporteur at the Council of Europe for a report recognising problems and difficulties, but which also saw progress. In this sense I am not saying how to reach agreement, but I can say it - in a national way - that we also address this line of understanding. Consent does not mean that there are no disagreements. Consensus means that we are talking, manifesting, moving on to what we are together. That is what I want to say. Secondly, at the moment a narrative is being built. We must not accept this account. What does that account tell us? There is a joint declaration by Turkey - the European Union, but its heart is forgotten, we remain in Turkey. I will also go to Turkey, I will see my counterpart in this direction, but the whole problem lies with Greece and with selective elements. They're not a thousand five hundred seventy returns. Thousands of five hundred and seventy and more are returns based on the statement to Turkey. There are voluntary returns, there are returns to the country of origin. And because forced returns, as you understand, are the most difficult thing, we need to take measures and we will take measures in this direction. The rate of compulsory refunds made by Greece is not very different - and sometimes it is higher - than other countries in Europe, such as Italy, such as France and Germany itself. If you see the percentages are similar. They must be increased, I said the ways, but it is not the heart of this story. Some and selective elements cannot be used to target the country, which on the one hand we admire and praise for the work it has done and on the other hand we close our borders. Countries, which have not taken either a refugee, nor a single immigrant do this job. At the same time, we also have family reunifications, which we are promoting. All this needs to be speeded up? Do we have to do all this even better? Of course, there is no objection to that. And that's what we need to focus on. This means that we must demand common asylum mechanisms in relation to the European Union, we must demand greater assistance to staff and funding of actions, and we must demand that solutions be given at European level at a time of crisis. I have said - and I repeat this in Parliament to make it even more official - that we are at a stage of trying to reach agreement with other first-hand countries, not to create some kind of front against the front of the Visegrad countries, but to try together to resolve the problems. I think that in this direction, if we move, we will have results. I would like to say to you that, as you know, from your previous positions, there are certain words which in a sense are prohibited in public dialogue. What do I mean by that? In a problem, on a global but also very specific issue for us, namely the issue of refugee - immigration, you are never sufficient, you are never inadequate. You have to make a constant effort. That is what I wanted to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u14	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 2 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1402-27-2018 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1397/26-3-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on "Disclosures about CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health". 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Only EUR 350 are the five thousand candidates from the country. They are treated as businessmen'. 4. The question by No. 13872-23-2018 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the abolition of the Hellenic Air Force Extract." 5. The 1408/27-2018 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of thousands of teachers (supplementaries and wages). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1398-26-3-2018 by MP Pireaus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Preparency in the positions of Heads of the ILO’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Keyals of Nikiforos Dramas and their staff: lie?”. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Liberation of Special Research Fund Accounts (EPKE) from bureaucracy". 4. The 1400-26-3-2018 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Transport equivalent and exclusion of Karpathos". 5. The 1401-26-3-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Awkward developments regarding the sale of S.E.G.A. “NATIONAL”. 6. Under number 1369/20-3-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Ministry of Finance observes the contract with the investment bank of Rothschild" by the Ministry of Finance. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1314/13-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neoslett Training Centre". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 3508/14-2-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The founding of the Department of Transition and Courts of Drama and his staff with the necessary staff. Staff with the necessary staff of the Drama Booking Store.’ Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 11 December 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u15	The minutes of Monday 11 December 2018 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-30-S1-commons.u16	With the agreement of the House at 10.40 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, April 2, 2018, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work, on the basis of the agenda distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, is closed; (b) topical and urgent debate.
