ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the essential part of the meeting, which is the topical questions, I would like to make a reference to Mother's Day, which is celebrated every year on the second Sunday of May. Mother's Day, as you all know, is a special day, a celebration of honor and memory to the most precious companion every man has in this life. It's the day for the thanks that, personally, we have to give to this creature that brought us to life and which has been keeping us inside his body for nine months and we never want to separate ourselves. Mother's Day is a day of honor to motherhood, which every society owes not only to words but also to works, to this sacred institution that protects the regeneration of society and transfers values, principles and ideals from generation to generation. The Greek society with strong elements of the traditional family took a long time to institutionalise the protection of maternity in the public and private life of the country. Mother's Day is undoubtedly the day of memory of the orders of the original Declaration of Mother's Day, which calls on women to make another world, a world that won't force their children and their men to lose, a world of peace, a world of war free and a world in which, as they write in the Declaration of 1870, mothers in particular: "Get up all of you, women with heart! They will not take our sons away, to make them forget everything we have managed to teach them: humanity, mercy and patience. We, the women of our country, will not let our children hurt the children of the mothers of another country. From the breasts of the destroyed land a voice comes out and joins ours. It says: Disarmament! Disarmament!’. That was the proclamation. Mother's Day is not a personal celebration. It is a celebration that reminds us that mothers are our own life, which we must listen to throughout our lives, to create a peaceful world, a world that saves the planet, which is at risk from various unbalanced ones, threatening to blow it out of the air through a nuclear war. Do not forget Sunday your mothers, all who at least have the blessing and happiness of having them alive. I wouldn't just say get a phone. I, personally, would say go see her in person, offer her a flower, give her a kiss and a hug, tell her how much you love her and see in her gaze how she will sink that you remembered her. And not all of us forget that it is the mother who keeps a family through the many roles she has within her, as a mother, a companion, a mistress, a householder, a teacher, all those roles she has and we must protect her and love her and consult her all our lives. The House today pays the due tribute to the mother and we all thank her for bringing us to life and supporting us, even when she disagrees with us. Ladies and gentlemen, following the reference to Mother's Day, please beg Mr. Ioannis Saridis, MP for the Thessaloniki Union, to announce the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’. B. Other: ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania to accelerate the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 14 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1616/8-5-2018 by MP Prevezis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent needs for the staff of the Paris, Canalaki and Philippidian Health Centers in Prevezis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1612/7-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Tractic ending in a car accident in Aegina - fifty minutes waited for the ambulance." 3. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 4. The 1618/8-5-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Problems of the Architecture Department of the University of Patras". 5. The 1592/4-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to finance ICT equipment (information and communication technologies) in the education and laboratory equipment of the ESDP and IEC through ESDP 2014-2020 in the schools of responsibility of the Regional Government of Western Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1613/7-5-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: 'Strengthening tourist education'. 3. The Question No 1622/8-5-2018 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the successors of the eight-month competition for the two Larissa hospitals." 4. The 1557/26-24-2018 topical question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conservation of the beneficial provisions of Law No.4368/2016". 5. The 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health". 6. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 8. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the dispatch of two ambulances to the EKAV of Molas and support with medical, nursing and administrative staff of the Laconia Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Democratic Incorporation PA.SOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on "The increase in measles is worrying". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Let me tell you the timely questions from today's newsletter that will not be discussed. The fourth question under number 1528/19-4-2018 of a second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy on the subject: "The urgent need to take administrative and legislative projects to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the S.A.", will not be discussed after the Minister responsible with the MP has been consulted. Nor will the following questions be discussed as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers: The first, with number 1611/7-5-2018, top-cycle question of the New Democracy MP Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: “Absorbing the resources of the NRP 2014-2020”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The second question under number 1589/3-5-2018 of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the processing and production of finished medicinal cannabis products", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Finance and Development, Alexandros Khritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The question asked by MP II of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. For all the above, there is also a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou. So we begin the debate with the first under number 1610/7-5-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, on the subject: “The burning of alternative fuels from the cement industry “HRAKLIS FYROM” in Volos”. The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Famelos. Mr. Bukkaro, you have the floor for two minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you know that there is a strong climate of concern in Volos about the burning of alternative RDF fuels by the local cement industry "AGET". In fact, as you may know, a massive rally was held last Saturday at Volos. It seems that local society has lost all confidence both in this process of burning alternative fuels and in the control mechanisms of each level. It seems that the world is concerned and the loss of this confidence is due, in many cases, to statements by official public bodies about the risk of burning alternative fuels. When we talk, Minister, about public health issues, you know that they are health bodies and those who represent them who play a major role in the formation of public opinion. So when we have repeated statements of representatives of scientific bodies, but above all we have positions of state institutions such as Volos Hospital and more specifically, the Commander of Volos Hospital, who invoke epidemiological studies from other European regions, according to which the burning of RDF and alternative fuels is linked to the increase in neoplasms, you realise that the world is rightly concerned and rightly protesting. So, as I am saying, in my question, I would like you to tell us whether your Ministry has such elements in mind either from Greece - because the burning of alternative fuels is not just in Volos, as I know about the cement industries in Thessaloniki and Evia - or in the European area. In any case, I would like you to tell us what your discussions with the European Union are on this issue and what information we have. Because you realise that we are talking about a matter of major public health interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much Mr. Bukoro. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Bukkaro, thank you for your question. We talked about it yesterday afternoon, we'll see you in the House next week. I think, however, that you are doing well and asking this question, in order to put things on a real basis, to have all the data and the House, but also the society of Volos and the Greek society, and not to have any rumours about a matter of substance and a matter of life and health. The society of Volos and the society of our country in general requires access to information and knowledge, especially on matters relating to the health of citizens. That is why, since the debate started, last March, on the subject of amending the environmental licence previously in existence at the cement industry 'HRAKLIS' for the use of alternative fuels - because the permit was there before - I refused to answer questions and I am informing both the institutions and the Members and the citizens of Volos about the data. I note here that this is why we decided in March 2017 to re-activated the system of online measurements, to which the citizens will have access, and above all regional self-government, which has been stopped since 2011. It was our initiative to open up access to information. It was a sign, if you want, in the direction and where you want to, that we should actually discuss what we need. Of course, for this reason, you are aware that on Wednesday in the House, in the Committee on the Environment, I have asked for an introduction to the question of the use of alternative fuels in the cement industry, in order to have a bigger debate. Today, I will obviously give you the data you ask for, but it may also need further discussion. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, if you wish, there is a misunderstanding or link between the data available and the debate that is taking place in Europe on the incineration of mixed waste and the data and data available on the use of alternative fuels in the cement industry. It must be clarified from the outset that the use of alternative fuels in the cement industry has nothing to do with the incineration of mixed waste. The burning of mixed waste is no longer provided for in the European Union's priorities under the 2008/98 directive, not provided for in the National Management Plan of Greece, adopted by an Act of Ministerial Council in 2015, is not in the Ministry's priorities and I do not support it personally. I think that, anyway, data have been recorded in Europe, which have also been rejected scientifically and environmentally. However, the use of alternative fuels and their production are provided for by the National Planning and by European legislation as a next stage after recycling, the collection at source, composting, reuse of materials as they are - not as an energy - in our economy, on the basis of the strategy of the circular economy, approved by the Governing Council of Economic Policy, and the construction of waste treatment plants, of which, if I am not mistaken, three are provided for in the Region of Thessaly, with the remaining solid waste plants which have the potential to produce alternative fuels that do not contain substances that can be produced during their energy exploitation or co-incineration in the cement industry, problems in human health. I am thinking in particular of mercury, chlorine and other heavy metals, which we have the possibility - particularly chlorine - to extract from the production process of waste treatment plants and to have RDF without chlorine, which is done in our country, for example in the waste facility of EMAK Liosia here in Athens. In advance, too, I say that there are explicit standards, which are also included in a European standard for what RDF is, because the RDF is not generally garbage. I'd say someone obviously misinforms when they say the RDF is general garbage. There are five steps that rank RDF on the basis of the European standard. The European standard is MM15359/2011, which has entered ministerial decision number 56366/2014 and is therefore clearly described. In fact, there are specific European standards on how to sample and analyse any secondary fuel and disposable fuel, so that we can be absolutely safe from a wide range of sampling. And we take samples of all loads, to make sure that the whole first fuel is not dangerous. When I refer to dangerous pollutants, I inform you that there are five tiers of classification based on thermogenic power, chlorine, mercury, this waste fuel, which is not classified with the material. And I'm saying this because I've heard a conversation about whether they're classified on the basis of whether it's plastic or paper. You know, in modern technology there are at least twelve kinds of recyclable plastic, which we collect in our country in the Recyclable Material sorting Centres. In other words, we could not classify it on the basis of the kind of plastic, because there are too many types of plastic. That is why they are classified according to the content of dangerous pollutants and their heating potential. In fact, I must tell you that the cement industry itself in the protocol that it made with the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the previous governments, had promised that the waste fuel it would use in the Greek cement industries, would be within the first classes of RDF from the five to which it was classified on the basis of chlorine, mercury and thermogenic power. So far, from the results of the official analyses that the Region of Thessaly has sent us for the unit of Volos, we find that the quality of the waste fuel lies only in the first two categories, so at the lowest concentrations of the five-milk, chlorine - and the highest calorific power. This data has already been given to all the social actors of Volos in the previous meeting, where you were, just so that there is no misinformation, there is no ignorance, there is complete knowledge and society knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have your second language. We're already in six minutes. It's very important, I get it. I just remind you that you have a second and you can also take advantage of this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u7	You're right, Mr. President. So what I wanted to say first is that we also have specific elements for the Volos plant on fuel classification, which are within the European context and at the lowest levels, and we do not have any given in bibliography, in the decisions of the European scientific community, but also in the European institutional framework on risks, with epidemiological studies that have prevailed and demonstrated that we cannot use waste fuel in the cement industry. I know the publications on these risks in terms of burning a mixed and older technology that had lower levels of anti-pollution technology. However, European legislation has resulted in very strict frameworks, which are respected and which we obviously ensure that more than planned measures are observed and measured. But I shall continue - you are right, Mr President - in my dentistry, to give you more information on the specific data of Volos, which you have asked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, four students and students and three educational attendants from the Special Elementary School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have been very detailed in your history. I fear, however, that no Minister, even if he has a chemist, no MP and no political or party official can reassure the local society when it receives information like the ones I have mentioned and which you have commented on. I am impressed, however, by your confession here that official state bodies - I am not talking about politicians or statemen - from the health sector in fact you say that they mislead public opinion, using elements and studies from the burning of mixed waste, that is, garbage, incinerators of low anti-pollutants and present them as a result of burning RDF - which you said is not garbage and we all understand - from cement ovens and ovens, which meet all the technological requirements. This really goes beyond me, because the guardians of public health must, in my view, be serious and measured and what they say must be accurate. Because on health issues, Mr Minister, neither you nor I will be listened to. The doctor will also be heard by the governor of the public health body. So you told us that there are no studies and evidence. I would like to raise the question again, to highlight it and to point it out, in the light of your secondaryity. Of course, there is also a second question in my timely question, which concerns you and your Ministry: How will you convince the local society and every local society - both in Evia and Thessaloniki - that alternative fuels are as safe as conventional fuels, such as oil, pete, gas. Because local society and those who protested at Volos are asking the cement industries to go through the use of natural gas, which is considered more environmentally friendly. I think you are aware of these questions too, as you know the anxiety that has erupted in heights. And I repeat, Minister, that the citizens are rightly concerned. I would therefore like you to make it quite clear in your dentext of what is going on with these studies and how the state will convince public opinion that alternative fuels are the same or more safer than conventional fuels, which I have so far known. Minister - and I close with this - you may have to deal with issues like this throughout Greece and many other issues, or you may see it in the context of the general environmental policy and the general footprint, that is, you may say - and many may say it and it is a dominant view in Europe - that the use of alternative fuels is for the benefit of the environment in general, but a local society first looks at its courtyard and then looks at the "great neighborhood" that the planet is. This burning, wherever it may be, first of all not to burden the local environment and then, of course, the global environment, our global public home. I believe that you will give more clear and less technocratic answers to your second-guess, Minister, so the world can understand us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u11	I'll try, Mr. Buquoir. I don't know if I can get away from my scientific capacity, I'm going to try. First of all, let us make it clear that the Ministry of the Environment and the State are not, if you like, the one to take the role of any undertaking that makes use of alternative fuels, because companies are also obliged to be within the strict framework that the state is putting in place. We control business. Let's get this straight. We will not be in favour of or against an operation, but we are very strict in their control, because that is what society wants from us. Secondly, you are right - and the Minister who has just come here knows - that in Europe the introduction of alternative fuels into the cement industry, but also throughout the production process, it is compulsory by global policy to mitigate the effects of climate change, because we cannot continue to burn fossil fuels in all production activities, including electricity production. This is the mandatory model for 2050 as well. However, specific things about Volos, because that is what we are interested in, and you are right that the health of the citizens is important, but also the concern that arises. We have not received any publications. No study has been submitted to us by you invoked or invoked as invoked by scientists or scientific bodies. In fact, the day before yesterday, at our meeting with the Medical Association, we have clarified a lot about the difference between the blend from the RDF, the open combustion or the old combustion of the complex from the modern combustion of cement industries for the RDF and their exploitation. We've given the evidence that they needed, the Medical Association from the analyses, which should be given to society as well. Analyses have been done. And analyses have been carried out not only in raw material, as I have told you, but also in the cigarettes of the cement industry and, indeed, they are twice as much as the ones provided for in the European Union Code. The results are at least two steps below the limit, two size classes. We are talking about percentages of one thousand, two thousand, three thousand in relation to the European limits of co-incineration, which are very strict and are recently updated, if you like, and they are also felt by the earlier analyses that have caused fears and concerns in society. I also participated in such conversations in the past. Indeed, they had to go down the line to ensure safety for society and health, although it is not the burning of a mixed fuel that clearly has great differences. It is precisely because there is this concern, but also the sense of air pollution in the Volos region, that we have taken some initiatives which we announced yesterday. In addition to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have decided, first of all, to fund the Ministry of the Environment, a study of atmospheric pollution in the wider area of Volos, because we need to find out what the causes of any misosomalism, of any feeling of tobacco, of burning plastics invoking citizens. Because, as the district manager told us - the day before yesterday, you were ahead - while the use of alternative fuels in the cement industry was closed, the citizens invoked an atmospheric phenomenon of dysosmia. And that was three days before our meeting, and while it has been stopped for ten days to use the alternative fuel. So we need to find out what's causing this feeling to Volos. This will be financed by the Green Fund. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We have called for a Committee on Social Control to be set up locally, and we are going to set up a national committee on this issue, so that citizens and Volos players can access the data so that they can know what is going on within the plant. Indeed, because there is a debate on a sample that was problematic - the Municipality of Volos informed us in a document, but never did anyone send us any data on this - we asked for new sampling of the controversial load, the presence of the social partners, and finally come to the Ministry of the Environment, because we have a responsibility to give it to society. We must speak openly with society, Mr Bukkoro, precisely to solve such fears, which you have also said might exist. Of course, we asked for "GET HERAKLIS" to come to the regional council, the municipal council and special meetings of the Technical Chamber and the Medical Association, because it has to prove and demonstrate the results of the proper use. We have received data and we know it happened last year. If we did not have this data, we would not allow the use of the waste fuel to continue. And we have already given a mandate, with my own circular, to stop the use immediately, if there is the slightest excess of a pollutant under European law. I think that these, first of all, make it clear that strict standards exist and these standards are respected. I say this because you have asked whether we can guarantee the safety of the plant's health and its operation. I must also tell you that the European cement industry has already turned towards alternative fuels. And all the Members of the democratic arch in February last year, with the encouragement of the Ministry of the Environment, we supported the Greek Chemistry not to apply a tax on carbon leakage to alternative fuels, as all of Europe has gone through. However, this must be done safely for the health of the citizens. We, therefore, need to make a national body within our Ministry, which controls the disposable fuel produced in Greece, ensures that it is low chlorine, low mercury and high thermal power and controls that businesses use it safely, because this shift obviously involves a high technological and scientific burden, it contains possibilities and prospects for both scientists in the country and for the economy of the country, but it must be done safely. If it is not fuelled from the outset safely and transparently, these risks and concerns will exist. We must now make it clear that we will do everything possible to avoid any dark spots in the use of the RDF. It will be absolutely clear on our part, with open databases. That is why we agreed with the Greek Chemistry that 12 analyses should be carried out at all Greek cement plants the time of dioxins and furans instead of two said in the European framework, that they should be on line seven atmospheric pollutants, which were not provided for in the European institutional framework, and that the results of dioxins and furans on the Internet should be posted to see them all. And there has been a very, if you want, an innovative discussion that will help our country, but - as we believe - and the Greek Cement Industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u12	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. In any case, we will also discuss this in the House. We'll come back. We will proceed to a new protocol with the Cement Industry Union and will be informed every week - with what we have given the citizens of Volos - directly so that there is no concern. For our part, we do everything we can to ensure that there is no problem with public health. If there is any scientific evidence, results of a European institutional framework, of a European scientific research to be introduced into Europe or Greece, I would ask you to be presented to us, because this has not come to our Ministry so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third question will be discussed with number 1587/2-5-2018, topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The need for a radical revision of the policy of hot spots". Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, when this hot spot story started, I had asked the House on several occasions and had written down, saying that, for the reasons there are - not to develop them now - they will gradually be converted - slowly from reception areas to premises, with all that that implies when they are set up. I said at the time that we should go back to the Heads of State or Government, in other words, how it is to be welcomed, how it will be transferred immediately from the islands to the mainland, so that all matters can be dealt with in the mainland, asylum records, etc. Unfortunately, this has not become a reality to date and problems are visible. For example, the Samos Metropolitan cries that the population is being altered, calls out Lesvos for the facts you know and face them. Of course, the question is what needs to be done from now on. Why am I saying that? Because according to Turkey's foreign policy, anything can happen. In other words, there is no need for a war to take over small islands. There may be boats full of the three million immigrants currently present in Turkey and of course there may be a big problem. No one can rule that out. Consequently, the question that arises - and in my dentistry I will be given time to develop it more - is how you and the government think about dealing with this problem, not fire-fighting, but essentially. That is to say, to tell our European partners - let me say so - that, 'you cannot close your borders at will and without repercussions' - and I am talking about the states of Central Europe - '... and we here are in danger of the populations of our islands being affected'. It is vital for the country itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The question will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kremastine, in your question you raise a number of existing issues which, in my opinion, should be essential for dialogue and common practice between democratic forces. That's specific. We will have a great opportunity on Tuesday, which will discuss a legislative initiative by the Ministry in which we will incorporate two European directives and make changes to the asylum procedure and the accession process, talk about it. We must, however, agree on certain things. First of all, I would like to say that the concerns are legitimate. Right now that we're talking about the director of the First Reception and Identification Service is in Moria. We know very well what the problems are mainly arising from the flows, but they do not give rise to the explosions. What do I mean by that? I believe that there is a legitimate need for dialogue, which is unfortunate, in my opinion, for certain Lesbos players not to participate in the dialogue. They could also make protests and dialogue. That's what I mean. In no case, however, will it be possible for me to deal with those fascist groups who want to step on the real problem and affect the vast majority of the world, which is concerned. The vast majority I understand. So there is a clear distinction. I will move on to your question. You also know very well that the way it works has as an umbrella to the Geneva Convention and the New York Protocol, international legislation, internal legislation, international agreements and international agreements. I think there's been some mistake about recording. It is international practice to record on the gates of entry of each country. Please refer to your question the registration of the asylum seeker in the asylum procedure. We are currently operating on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union with Turkey. We have submitted proposals on how the islands can be decompressed. Aifne - I tell you our own proposal from the Ministry - in a tactical and conscientious way, that there should be a transfer to the mainland under guard, one would say, which will not be called into question, that asylum procedures should be carried out here, so that those who are returning, returning, and those who are taking asylum, should be granted asylum. This has not been accepted either by the European Union or by Turkey. However, I have had the opportunity both in Mytilini and in the House to speak about a goal and a project that we are targeting on the islands, because their decompression is necessary. This is about the fact that we need to get to the end of September so that the population of asylum seekers who live on the islands is equivalent to the capacity of the reception centres. This means, in practical terms, that we must strengthen and speed up asylum procedures to a first degree. As we speed them up, we must also transfer those who have the right and the vulnerable groups, which are not few. I tell you that 38% of asylum seekers are vulnerable groups and have the right to withdraw the geographical restriction and come inside the country. We are trying to resolve quickly, by developing and oriented the appeal committees in particular - that is to say four in Lesvos, two in Chios, two in Samos, one in Leros, one in Kos - and that is how to proceed quickly and better with the returns both on the basis of the joint declaration and on voluntary returns. I even had a meeting yesterday on voluntary returns. There have been voluntary returns, ten thousand in 2017, but this is how the framework is shaped, which, of course, is still dependent on the flows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, if you'd like, finish it. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u19	Wait a minute, Mr. President. And again depends on the flows because in the first four months of 2018, we had an increase of more than 60%, compared to 2017, in the islands and eightfold in the Evros. Now, in the last few days, in Evros the situation is much better in the islands too. This is, of course, also about international agreements, both with the European Union and Turkey itself. So, this is about the plan, I've already developed it, but I'll have the opportunity on Tuesday to develop it more, because we understand the need and decompress the islands, but we can't bring back the islands as "transition places" where they will create a continuous flow from Turkey's side, without any terms and limits, and we'll live again in 2015, which you remember that there was Souda in Chios, there were ten camps in Mytilini, there was the world with scenes at the port in Kos and one would say that the only kind of decent situation of 2015 was in Lero. The rest I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr President, before I give you the floor, I would like to make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Elementary School of Gerakas. Also, our meeting is attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from Panagiotopoulos Educational Schools. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In order to know a little bit about the process you are following, it is the process of the timely questions, in which the Member concerned has the right to ask a question directly to the Minister and to come here to have a debate on protagonists and dents. This question is from the First Vice-President of the Parliament to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the major issue that concerns our country regarding migration flows and their better management. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. As you have seen, Minister, I do not question your efforts at all, but the previous Minister. I am also not questioning the efforts of the Prime Minister on a communication level with the other Prime Ministers. However, what I am saying is that, on a clear level, we must create a matter at the level of Heads of State, because there must also be a plan B, if all that I have developed in my prototype is the case, as far as what the European Union is going to do. He can't leave us like that. That's the question. I think it is a big deal, because I also made the initial introduction that I had, unfortunately, predicted that hot spots would be as they are today and I was confirmed. So I come back today, really worried as a Member - if you like - about the Aegean. I am concerned not only about the Aegean but also about the country's existence, because you see that they are buying weapons, equipment on both sides, and that is not what the European Union is dealing with as it stands, that is to say, 'it is your problem - Greece and Italy - that we want our peace here'. Then what do we have in the European Union? That is why I am asking this question. Of course, you may tell me 'you should have done it to the Prime Minister'. Okay, but I do it to you, indirectly to the Prime Minister, because I think this is a vital matter for the country and, in my opinion, it has not been closed at all. So without questioning everything, I propose something that I now think is very essential to all of us. Another thought I could make - I am speaking to you - is this: like the refugee camps in Turkey, let the European Union, if any, ensure that such camps are possible. Because if such events happen - I hope they do not happen - there must be plan B. If there is no plan B then we will have great problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u23	I think, Mr Kremastine, that if we discuss things calmly, as we both do at the moment, if we cannot find solutions, which would be desirable, at least we can form consensus in the direction of both the European Union and Turkey. I will tell you what efforts and proposals we have made, openly. I mentioned one earlier. We have made very specific proposals in the European Union for a common asylum system. Secondly, a common refund system. Thirdly, a system of examination procedures in which, when more than a number is present immediately, they will be able to go to other countries in Europe and the asylum application will be considered there. These are three very specific proposals. The fourth thing we have done is that the five first host countries in the European Union, namely Spain, Italy, Malta, Greece and Cyprus, have tabled 13 common positions in the Dublin IV debate. And there is at the same time an integrated pressure, because you have said so correctly, so that there is the essence of the joint declaration. The essence of the joint declaration, the heart of the joint declaration is the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, that Turkey keeps the refugee and migration populations and do other things that it does on its territory and that money is given to Turkey - which is why they are given - and as a corrective mechanism returns are. There are two other issues. One issue is the joint effort to hit the traffickers, namely these people's criminals, which is the main one. And the second is that Turkey should have a greater responsibility for defending, armoring - and I am talking about the migration flows - of its land borders. We are - and I repeat - in agreement with both the European Union and the respective Commissioners and with the Turkish side. We've opened a channel. This seems to have some effect so far. In particular, on April 24, 2018, in the Evros detentions, there were a thousand two hundred seventy. Yesterday was a hundred nineteen. This is about the same flows. Flows have fallen on Evros. If anyone asks me, are you sure that will be maintained? I will say that we need to be careful, watch, continue and not relax. There's the big problem with Lesvos, who's a gentleman. If you'd tell me to do a categorization, I'd say: Lesvos, Samos, Chios. In this direction we are working, but not in the way that we will cause new flows to Greece, because if we say, you get a hundred people, because they are vulnerable, from Lesvos and the next day, a hundred in the morning come from Turkey, that will mean zero. This also has procedures for understanding and return procedures, and at the same time it needs a balance regarding both the rights and the improvement of the lives of residents in Moria, Pamphia, Panayida, etc. And that's why I'm saying that when you get into such a development conference, you find solutions. In this direction we will continue without leaving our main direction and our basic policy behind. Our basic policy is the legitimate routes of immigration and the mutual division of the refugee issue across Europe, which is where a number of countries do not participate, have zero participation. This is the main issue, and it is one of the issues that I imagine the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I too are discussing in European fora and in European procedures, and I hope that it will be one of the main topics of discussion and the meeting between the Balkans and the Visegrad countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 1584/2-5-2018, a top-level question for the first-round question by MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The reversal of a truck in Halkidiki'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to the press release published by HELLAS GOLD on March 10, 2018, we had a overthrow of a truck contractor working with the company "ELLENIKIKI FRYSOS", which carried out a transfer of restoration material. Because, Minister, the press release issued and published on its website, the company leaves many ambiguities with expressions - you will allow me to tell you - such as 'for the immediate removal of the material leaked due to the rollover of the vehicle', 'the material has been certified as non-hazardous', 'transfer of material from cleaning and restoration of cleaning residues', the question is simple: Minister, what exactly did this truck carry and to what extent is that dangerous for public health?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Saridis, you are indeed referring to an incident that took place on March 10th in the eighth kilometre of the Olympic Army Street and it was a roll-over of a truck carrying waste from the "ELELENIKI CRYSOS". Direct environmental inspectors of the North Greece Environmental Inspectorate were informed by the police and went to the point. The autopsy of the inspectors in the accident has also been found by us to escape the shipment of solid waste on the ground, of course, to a limited extent. The waste was transported for final disposal at the landfill site of the Hazardous Waste Landscape CHYTEA Hazardous Wastes S.A. from the Consortium ‘NECTOR - ELECTOR S.A.’, according to the authorisation to collect and transport non-hazardous waste that this company has and was issued by the ICCU of the decentralised administration. According to the companies’ managers, this is a residue of charged soils from the old Olympiad Lake that emerged as part of the implementation of the restoration project. Environmental inspectors received a sample of the waste from the police and the representatives of the companies. The sample has been sent to the General Chemistry of the State and the IGM in order to analyse whether it is dangerous or non-hazardous waste. The same day, of course, the area was cleaned up, as we were due, and this was confirmed by the police, and the companies were asked for information to further investigate the case by environmental inspectors pending the results of the chemical analyses, so that the audit report could also be carried out. I have to tell you in advance, because your question, that is, you have been tabling it for some time now, and we have had time to check the evidence, that unfortunately this analysis and evaluation and classification cannot be completed in a short time and that we could not respond earlier, because we did not have complete completion of the analyses. Following the event, an own motion was formed under Article 243(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Arnaia Police Department will send the file to the Halkidiki Prosecutor's office for its own actions under the law. The pre-examination material shall be collected without publicity under Article 241 of the Code and may therefore not be disclosed in any way at present in the case-file except by a Advocate-General. Our department, of course, following the assessment of the analyses, will send all the information to the Arnaia Police Department and in cases where, after an incident, a case has been filed and the department of the Ministry is involved, the department will inform the prosecutor of any action and in any case will proceed with its own administrative body, i.e. the preparation of an audit report, as I have said, the call for apology, confirmation or non-compliance and the imposition of sanctions. So far, then, the data have been sent to the General Chemistry of the State, results have been sent from the General Chemistry of the State. The General Chemistry of the State will be asked to assess and classify, i.e. there is a chemical analysis, and they must be classified as dangerous or not, and we still have no evidence from the Institute for Geological Studies. I'm going to continue on my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as far as I can tell, this is going on. It is currently in a pre-examination phase. And from what I understand, perhaps even some facts which you and the interrogator may have in his hands cannot be made public. What I would like to say to you for my part, Minister, is that as a state and you, and I, from the position in which I am, must reassure the citizens of us of what they may feel. So what has the company done from her side? How's the company all right with its obligations? How does she fulfil her obligations? How does the state control this? What about the waste? What kind of waste are we talking about? Where are they going? Are there any checks on the company's waste? And something that may not be here, Mr Minister, but is important and concerns this investment. It may not be within your jurisdiction and you may not be able to answer, but what, Minister, with permission? Do you think you could issue new permits? Because according to what I believe you are not legitimate about issuing other permits, new permits, if the new Skouries subproject is not authorised as a whole, and if the technical studies and the new investment project are not actually approved. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u31	Mr Saridis, the last part of your question relates to the Minister responsible for mining and mineral resources. I know that the arbitration has recently been concluded and we have also asked a question about the arbitration, about the completion of the contract or its cancellation, since the production process of pure metals has not been completed, or why the studies have not yet been submitted for it. But that is still pending. However, for what concerns my own competence, I must tell you that the management of the waste of the activity is, in fact, a particularly important environmental element in the environmental conditions of the project. And as I said in the previous question that you were present, so let me use it, the Ministry of the Environment does not represent any company and is not apologies for any company. On the other hand, it calls on all companies to be absolutely strict in controlling their environmental activities. Because we here represent and defend human health and the environment. And we do this for all activities, because the environment is also a key element of our country's production and development. So, with regard to the two issues that you raised, what are the waste that the company manages and where it goes, continuing with the previous answer, I will tell you that the company is licensed for environmental purposes, which was given on July 26, 2011. It is a joint ministerial decision and this CYR and the ICM accompanying it says that the polluted soils and residues resulting from the resolution and restoration processes, such as those mentioned in the Olympia dawn, are regarded as dangerous. In July 2017, the company submitted a study to the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry, according to which the waste generated by the processing of the old stones is non-hazardous. The Environmental Licensing Department accepted the studies and stated in a document that they could be used as a lithogenic material, and this involved part of the waste of Fire Square in Olympiad. But we asked the company to review and submit a new study of all the remaining waste, except in Fire Square, which was old waste and old waste. So what I have to say to you is that from the department of Olympiad, from which it appears that it is the shipment, it is a part for which a designation is required, so we do the analysis to see whether it is dangerous or not. The state has not been placed in relation to these traits. And the company has submitted a designation for the enrichment waste of the factories in the Army and in Madem Lakkos - two activities - but there are still a number of solid waste that is still lacking, for which there is a request for our service to the company to do the qualification study. Indeed, there is still a question that we are in correspondence and we are asking for all waste to be classified in order to ensure safety in health and the environment. As far as they are available now, I told you that these are being transferred to HYTEA Kokkinolakka, which has been a project under construction since 2013, with the responsibility of the company, with a housing, for which we have not yet approved by the Department of Environmental Licensing, and that the company is aware in writing. That is why a special committee has been set up by our Ministry, which is examining the safety of the Kokkinolakka's waterproofing - it is a decision that we have taken with the Minister over the last one and a half years and there is a job in the field - and which is also supported by the relevant scientific committee, which is provided for the adoption of environmental conditions. That is why there is one issue which we are discussing at the present time to strengthen the Scientific Committee to 'run' the studies on the safety of Red Vultures. However, I must tell you that we have never interrupted safe work. We have given twice a temporary six-month leave, to be safe in waste management, but we are too strict. We will not complete this management unless we are absolutely sure of the safety of sealing and the health of the HYTEA. And that's what the company knows. In other words, we may not hamper economic activities in our country if they have ensured the level of safety of the environment, but environmental licensing is too strict and we will insist on the characterisation of waste and on the evaluation of HYTEA Kokkinolakka's waterproofing, in which, as I mentioned in the first part of the question, waste is gone. Because - I close with this - economic activities are important for our country, it is important to work and growth, but this will not be at the expense of human health and the environment. And here we will be equal and strict towards all businesses and all the activities that exist in our country in general than the economic or human factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the last question for today's sitting, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis. This is the second question, number 1591/4-5-2018, in the first cycle of the PASOK Democratic Symposium - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The establishment of a compensation fee for large hydroelectric power stations". Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for coming today for the question. I would remind you very soon that the 2006 Renewable Energy Act, which includes small hydroelectric projects, has introduced a 3% reward fee, attributed through LAGs to local communities. This is not the case and does not cover the large hydroelectric power plants which, as you know, are very much in the country, with the result that today the regions, which have large lakes and large hydroelectric plants, do not have any return profit. This concerns a number of lakes and dams across the country. But, as you know, there is the backbone of PPC's hydroelectric production. PPC, with a number of dams finished, incomplete or under construction, has had huge environmental impacts and not only in the area, never historically, since 1965, has yielded any reward. I would remind you that the area is one of the most backward areas in the country. It's worth it. West Evrytania and Argithea are regions with many problems and low-cost infrastructures. A characteristic of the absence of the state and of PPC in the region is the example of the famous bridge of Tartana, which was built along with the Kremas dam in 1965 and for at least forty years it had no road access. It was only accessible from ovine and caprine herds and from anyone else. Let me note that, unlike hydroelectrics, PPC has attributed to local communities in many ways in return - and very well it has done - in the lignite mines, having made district heating interventions and various other interventions, both in Kozani and Megalopolis, while it has no policy of intervention in the hydroelectric areas. Private companies, such as Voxites Parnassos, since 2012 have been bound by law and give to the local communities of Fokida, which are proportionate in terms of economic development and problems, an important part. On this issue - to return to 3% - by mobilising local actors and local authorities in the region of Western Evrytania, the Grancipe fraternity, the CEDEFOP and local municipalities and communities, this has come to the European Commission. Mr Gramaticakis, the Member of the European Parliament, raised the matter of whether or not to include large hydroelectric power in hydroelectric power plants of 3%, in order to get the answer from Commissioner of Competition, Mr Margret Westager, that the special contribution attributed to network or system operators by certain renewable energy producers, regardless of their size, is unfair, unless there is an objective reason. It says, therefore, that even unfair discrimination and unfair aid to PPC can be considered to have been excluded from the obligation to bring an end to local communities. The topical question, then, is how you see the issue and what you intend to do about it, why do you not introduce a compensation fee specifically for large hydroelectric plants, because - as I said - there is more or less everywhere in various ways and, finally, if there are objective conditions that stop it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u35	The answer is very simple. The large hydroelectric plants are not in the category of RES. In the category of RES, PVCs belong to PVCs, wind and small hydroelectric. Why aren't they in this charge? Because they're playing another role. All of what I have said to you, small hydroelectric and others, have a continuous flow, priority for integration into the system and guaranteed prices. PPC's large hydroelectric power plants play another role in our energy system. Firstly, they have no positive discrimination. They don't get a guaranteed price. They enter the system with the limit value, the wholesale value of the system. Secondly, they have no priority. They're complementary. They support the system for security reasons. Thirdly, they're not just doing the work of energy. They are both irrigational and anti-military, and they are systems with which we operate the entire system of water resources safely for the regions. Therefore, the reasons why large hydroelectric plants are not part of their treatment as a classic RES system are these. It is therefore not a question of being dealt with under the same conditions and at the same time not playing the role in the energy system played by the main lignite units or other power plants, which are the permanent input units in the system. They are the ones that determine the stability of the system and make up the baseload units, i.e. the load of permanent energy production. This is the particularity of large hydroelectric power stations. They are, therefore, excluded from their integration into the RES regime - with what this implies - and from the operation of the main production units of our energy system. In my view, we must respect this particularity. It must only change the regime if the role of large hydroelectric power in the system is changed. In view of Mrs Westager's reply, the answer is clear. It does not impact any level of competition, precisely because it does not fall within the RES system, such as the continuous flow of small hydroelectric power. So they don't compete with them and it doesn't impact any competition rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barriots has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u37	Talk about what is a big and a small hydroelectric project and what part it plays in the system is understandable and outweighs me in terms of expertise and expertise in energy issues. I am sure, however, that you are going beyond your analysis and the perception that local populations and local communities have of the distinction that is being made to their detriment. I think you have clearly stated that you do not intend to make any kind of move in terms of compensation or support from PPC, which is well or poorly exploiting resources and disrupting the ecological environment. It was your political party that literally lifted the place over the last thirty years and canceled or left incomplete with various interventions - political and judicial - the projects in Messochora and Sykia, in order to pass to the second part of the question, with the main argument that this is a serious ecological disruption and the ecological impact in the region are appalling. That is why PPC, as you know better than I, has done nothing for the regions. I told you the example of the Tatarna bridge, but there are huge examples of abandonment, in fact, of stopping traffic due to the existence of PPC's ponds, which have not been given a return resource or which has not been restored in many cases for decades. So if we get over the technical issue, which I said before, I am overcoming, some kind of recompense to the local society, I think it is an obligation both of PPC and the future owner perhaps in the ultimate future, since the future of PPC and of these facilities has been under discussion for many years. Your government has adopted a solution, some others may adopt a different one. Here it comes into a completely different political context - and not technocratic - the issue of the exploitation of the natural resources of an entire region, practically the whole of the country. I particularly insist on Acheloos, since there are specific local, social and political conditions in the region, which is a very big question. I can tell you again that I do not think the technocratic issue will be considered and very well accepted by local communities. I will take advantage of one last question of your presence here. With Mr Famello, we have discussed the Mediterranean issue in a previous year. Environmental acceptance procedures have been completed, we have all contributed locally and from the side of Thessaly to the completion of some procedures. There is the government's sincere commitment that the hydroelectric dam of the Mediterranean, which has nothing to do with the diversion, will be completed because it is essentially in the phase of completion. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you what is going on with the remaining expropriations and the latest work of PPC, which apparently do not go any further, resulting in a huge project, a ready hydroelectric power plant for decades, to be unable to join the system, to render PPC and the country as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u39	As you have implied, the specificity of large hydroelectric plants in relation to the local society is answered by PPC's corporate social responsibility and the projects that it has agreed with the local authorities since 2008. They include very large and important works in the area, such as lighting, bridge maintenance, pumping, Acheloos bed restoration, waste disposal, roads and dozens of other works. So the answer to the first question "what benefits the local society is", given the specificity of the large hydroelectric power plants, is answered by the support offered by PPC under corporate social responsibility for these areas. As far as the Mediterranean is concerned, as you know, the Mediterranean is progressing, since it has been ensured that it is fully and definitively separated from any sense of diversion of Acheloos. That's settled. From there on, they move forward - step by step - in cooperation with the Municipality of Pylis - the issues relating to expropriations, the OPCWC of the region, which is trying to integrate the new data. They take several steps, such as the decision of PPC's Board of Directors on the forced expropriation of the specified areas and the completion of the works that have been interrupted or made necessary, which are now part of the investment initiatives that PPC has and the planning it makes in its investments. The basic conditions for the completion of the project, as recently set out, have therefore been resolved. Step by step, all the necessary steps are taken to move this project forward, which will in fact be important for both PPC and the country's system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-11-S1-commons.u41	With the agreement of the House at 11.30 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, 14 May 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the question number 22/8-3-2018, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
