ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on topical questions, let me announce to the House that the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Migration Policy, Shipping and Immigration Policy, the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Finance and the Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 21-6-2018: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849/EU) and other provisions’. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 25 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1830/19-6-2018 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Adjustment of the IC's obligations of nurses/parents and the rights stemming from them". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1823/18-6-2018 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, on "Strengthening tourist education". 3. The 1831/19-6-2018 topical question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Award of grace to criminal convictions in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession". 4. The 1829/18-6-2018 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “About the criminals and nationally harmful behaviours of the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Giannis Boutaris.” 5. The 1810/13-6-2018 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr Aristides Fokas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dramatic toll increase". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1824/18-6-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr.Kissos Economou to the Minister of Health on the subject: ‘The government's failure leads to a health bomb because of HIV’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1800/12-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Mantas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Global blood donor day and National Center for Hepatitism.(')'. 3. The 1805/12-2018 topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration image presents the General Hospital of Artas". 4. The 1754/5-6-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dimotio Hospital requires its immunity with personnel and equipment." 5. The 1729/30-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forum capacity of the Greeks". 6. The 1731/30-5-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 1706/25-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Sea fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (O.D.D.) the investment bank Rothschild’. 8. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 9. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 10. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 11. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. 12. The Question No 1753/5-6-2018 by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of a seafront or a 'frontal' mercenary'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 2925/172/25-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lacks of medical staff in hospitals and health centres". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 3195/5-2-2018 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centers of the prefecture with medical staff". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Five questions will be debated today. Before we begin, I will tell you which of the topical questions this issue will not be discussed. The first under number 1821/18-6-2018, the first question of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Application of Regulation No 679/2016 on personal data to the debtors information companies’, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the questioner. The eighth under number 1730/30-5-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Lack of democratic representation of students in the EAA”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The second under number 1802/12-2018, a topical question by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Christos Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis, who is missing on a service trip. The third question with number 4297/12-2018 question of the circle of petitions by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis, who is missing on a service journey. Also, the third with number 1773/8-6-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The government, for the sake of creditors, does the regulated net of protecting the loss of interest on the debts of the highly indebted households?" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Pitsirla. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Also, the fourth question under number 1801/12-2018, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Television licenses", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Digital Policy, who will participate in a conference in Rhodes. The seventh question, No. 1741/4-6-2018, topical question of the second question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Stathakis. Cause: workload. Finally, the first question under number 6058-17-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The PPC threatens TWO with power cuts. Mr Stathakis will not be discussed at risk as a result of an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Cause: workload. So we begin with the first under number 1822/18-6-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Lesbos Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasios, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Programmary connection between Limnos and Saint Efstratios’. Mr. Athanasios, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone present. Mr. Minister, as you know, the route connection between Saint Efstratios and Limnos is a vital issue, which has of course dealt with you and after the recent visit by the Mayors of Limnos and Saint Efstratios. Now, as far as summer routes are concerned, they have already started and satisfy the local operators, and we do recognise that. There had been a good effort, in particular, under Minister Varvitsiotis, and Mr Dritsas continued and now on your day, these summer routes are satisfactory. This year, however, the passenger and ferry "DIAGORAS" was launched on the fertile line, which was served last year, as you know, by NASOS ROPOS after the merger of the two major companies, the "Blue Star" and the "Hellenic Seaways". "DIAGORIS" is a ship that develops a maximum speed of 20 knots. We do not know, of course, how satisfying the businessmen, residents and visitors to visit the island will be. But we will see if it meets these requirements with the routes that will be done. I am aware, of course, that you cannot now make any changes to this year's summer routes, and that is up to the discretion of the contracting company, as was merged now, whether it will accept changes, that the contract you signed does not provide for intervention by the Ministry, and that is something I must say beforehand. However, the proposal put forward by the two mayors to you and the required characteristics of the ships to be present again. Perhaps the new notice should include these features. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will take some time from my denology. The first is that the highest price offered by your Ministry allows the route of III class ships. The request is to go second class ships. Today the line Lavrios - Agios Efstratios - Limnos is served by "PEGASO", which is a year of construction, if I remember correctly, 1977, that is, 40 years ago, its maximum speed is twenty knots and in bad weather conditions. Mr Minister, rent may be increased by changing the category, but, as you have assured the two mayors, the money can now be found and this condition can be applied in the new notices. So an important issue is changing the category. The second is that PEGASOS has only twenty-eight beds and that especially for summer seasons is very difficult. There should be a ship with about eighty and a hundred beds. The duration of the contract has been set for one year. It is a question of whether these contracts can be made for three years, so that appropriate planning can be carried out. Provision should also be made for the general conditions of the contract to replace the vessel in the event of immobilisation. We have had very many examples for various reasons where there have been malfunctions on these routes with the immobilisation of ships, which may be due to a variety of reasons. I would like to ask you, Minister, to see this in your new contracts, to see what happens in the event that a ship is stationed, that is to say, that the sponsor company, the shipowner, is obliged to replace the ship. There is one last point I want to raise. We have to consider whether what I said to you on the road needs to be disconnected, namely 'Lavrios - Agios Efstratios-Lemnos', the mid-term stop of the Mestas, which creates a major problem and a delay of ten to twelve hours is often observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every initiative and every reference that attempts to highlight problems on the Aegean transport network and interesting is also useful. That is why I consider the effort of my dear colleague to be useful. The Aegean is an area that, for many and various reasons, is of interest to all of us and must be of interest. The citizens who live in the hundreds of fourteen islands of the country must feel that there is a iso-state. We must also confess that the Greek state has made efforts over the years - it cannot be called into question - but it has also shown many gaps and very great weaknesses. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs has unfolded a processed policy, in order to assert the right at last to implement the famous territorial cohesion from Europe. And on this point, I can say a lot of things, but it's not the time. But we have the transport network, the ferry network in the Aegean. We must not forget what was happening in the Aegean Sea, how the money of the famous barren lines, which I will call "life-satisfactions", used more as a result, seemed to serve the shipowners, despite the people, despite the islanders. This has changed for the last three years. That is why there are no serious protests, because we are constantly upgrading the coastline with new lines. And this year, we have upgraded the network once again for the last three years, so that we can really fill the gaps. I shall now refer to the specific questions raised by my dear colleague. We have three lines connecting Kavala, Lemnos, Mytilini and other islands. We have three other lines connecting Lavrio, Mytilini and St. Stratis. And we have six lines connecting Strate to Lemnos. We're already on a one-line call. We have, in other words, over the past two years, increased by two lines the Lemnos and Ai Stratis connection. Of course, one could say that it is sufficient. I claim it could be even better. I believe that the seventh line will improve matters even further. As far as working time is concerned, my dear colleague, you know very well that these routes are defined through a process that takes place around November of each year. At the moment tickets have been issued, programs have been issued. It is not easy for us to intervene in the timetable set. It is an issue that needs a preparation at the moment when these processes are being carried out. And ship change, under the Rules of Procedure, is not easy to do now. We need these things, once they are pointed out - and we keep them from your own reference, but also from the dear mayors - to see them within the competent council and at the appropriate time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u5	Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u6	Indeed, I, too, recognised at the outset that this cannot be done now. It is at the discretion of the company, due to the fact that the summer routes have also begun. What I have just requested is that the proposals of the two mayors, of the Mayor of Lemnos, Mr Marinakis and Mrs Cakalis, of the Mayor of St. Efstratios on the new contract, which you will sign. Of course, I said that there has been an improvement in recent years. I would also agree with you that, as I said at the outset, both Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Dritsas have made improvements today, which we do not deny. I would simply like you to take these proposals from the two mayors into account in the new Convention, in order to improve further the routes, especially with regard to the route Lavrios - Saint-Efstratios and Lemnos, because this is why the tourist product is so much in need of the country. Much more so, because today the economic crisis is plagued by the country and especially the northern Aegean, in general, because of the migration, but also because of the abolition of the reduced VAT rates, which the current government has imposed. Let me remind you of this - when a ship is withdrawn from the line - that in May 2015 Agios Efstratios stayed without ferry connection to the mainland for more than a month, because this ship, which operated the route Lavrios - Agios Efstratios - Limnos - Kavala, had been immobilised because of a job commitment. At that time Mr Dritsa did, of course, attempts, but he was unable to find a solution so that another ship could be set up. The request, therefore, is that the shipping company - as was merged now, which is colossus - should be obliged to replace this ship when it is stationed. This is our request and I would like you to see it carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, the point made by my dear colleague is correct and useful. In recent years, there has been a regime from the existing legislation, which does not allow the ship to be changed, when there is a ship still. Well, it has to change. Indeed, we need to change this regime, which Mr Athanasios pointed out. We take this very seriously, because we too have been concerned about it. And personally, I had questions in the service conversation. Why should there be a gap when there is immorality? There should be a replacement. I can assure you that I will bring an order to the House, Mr Athanasios, to resolve this matter. Now I would also like to take this opportunity, Madam President, to say to the House that, following a decision by the Prime Minister, when he visited Nisyros island and the commitment finally, after forty years that the Greek Parliament will vote on the famous transport equivalent, this is a reality. Last week I believe that the Greek Parliament will finally come to its attention and discuss this bill. I am sure that through a fertile dialogue - because, as I said at the outset, I believe that the Aegean is a matter that we all care about, and we all have the same interest and the same anxiety to do what is best, for the citizens of these islands to feel that there is this interest in the Greek state - and in such a spirit and level of cooperation, in fact, with each side's contribution, we will be able to improve even more and make the transport equivalent more functional, for the benefit of our islands. It comes next week that this matter of transport equivalent, which will be another contribution, but essential, to reducing the sense of a level playing field, which is felt by the inhabitants of the islands in the Aegean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. We move on to the next question that will be answered by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, which is the ninth under number 1674/21-5-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Evaluation of funding from the European Union Funds for the supply of new vessels from the Port Authority - Greek Coast Guard to strengthen the surveillance of maritime borders, effective research and rescue and the fight against crime at sea". Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, under Rule 52 of Law 4504/2017, on the structure of forces and equipment within the Port House, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy decides now, of course, by means of a recommendation from the relevant Minister of Shipping and Regional Policy. With this legislative initiative, we also believed that the operational role of the Port Authority in safeguarding and defending the national and sovereign rights of our country, the maritime borders, research and rescue, the prevention of crime at sea. So you are in a process - slowly - but at least in an elementary way, to strengthen the Port House by means of staff and by means. All this, Minister, is being done at a time when you know very well that there is an increase in migration flows. Acting Minister Vitsats admitted that in the first quarter of 2018 there was an increase of 33% compared to 2017. There is increased provocativeness on the part of our neighbours, with the culmination of PTH 090 in Imia, of course. We also know very well that the Turkish coastguard is armed to a very large and important degree with means and personnel. It is in fact a 10 Stealth programme, which, in particular, those who know very well, are intended for research and rescue in the Aegean Sea. He also knows very well from the point of view of Mr Vitsats and those who have injected into the Ministry of National Defence that research and rescue is the central task, at least on the part of the neighbouring country, and through the question of the national and sovereign rights of our country from the 25th parallel, and of course, the creation of confusion in the international community. The question, Mr Minister, is this: given that funds from the previous government have been provided for over 270 million euros, including the Internal Security Fund for three Abeking vessels for 45 million euros, from the Fisheries Fund for the purchase of ten Escosaria-type vessels, as well as ten inflatable vessels. Also, the top and separate program in the total equipment of the Port Corps is the Integrated Maritime Surveillance System, combined with OHIM, a budget of 60m euros, which will be able to capture real-time image for all the southern and eastern borders of our country. So the question is: What are the timetables for competitive procedures, so that valuable resources are not lost? You know very well that this is the central question. For example, the Fisheries Fund has not yet completed the accession process to the EFP. Of course, three and a half years later, the Port Corps has not even been equipped with a ship to carry out its mission. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, I again take the initiative of my colleague as positive and with good will and anxiety, if any, for the implementation of programmes which really need to be completed to equip the Port House with necessary means. I have to say, however, that if we follow the data from the Port Authority over the last three years, we will see a rapid increase in the means available to the Port Authority in terms of vessels. How did that happen? It happened because we've been trying to use parked ships for years. That is why you will see that almost, Mr Colleagues, the number of vessels that the Port House has been using in recent years has doubled, either by changing the legislation for vessels seized in various ways and by transferring them, to be used by the Port Corps or by repairing vessels, which have been parked for too many years. As far as the programme is concerned, you know better than I do, because you have previously been Minister that in Greece it is more difficult to prepare a process than to implement it. That's the truth in all the works. Because they have procedures, the laws provide that procedures, consultation and remarks must be observed from the outset. But now I can surely tell you the following: you had planned to buy two ships, the so-called triading boats. It's actually thirty-six meters. Today these are scheduled to be six and not two. For both of us - to calm your anxiety - the whole process has been signed. For a part of these two of us are trying to build in Greece. This is also extremely important and positive, for the country of know-how to have. So there are two plus two of the same programme and two of the transport programme. For this, the money is secured. The procedure has been completed. We can move on very quickly. Furthermore, the ten of the nineteen meters - which actually existed in the programme - have been seventeen from sources and from the transport programme. So the process also goes out in the air in June to July, plus ten inflatables, plus three more voyages which will also be used for ambulances. So, then, we have a significant circle of several ships that will strengthen the Port House, whether it is active in the pushed surveillance line - which now has this role - or in the fight against marine crime involving drugs, weapons and cigarettes. And I think there is, there is a live effort, and there is a clear effort being made in this area too. As far as ESTAB is concerned, it is indeed a very important programme. It's a new high know-how system that will be supervised by the whole border line. And I must assure you that there is an attempt to find the resources so that it can, in the good sense of the term, circle the whole country and towards Crete and to the Ionian Sea. This program will be on the air, I believe, by September. That is, the whole process and the process required. These, you know, are time-consuming processes, unfortunately. We would all like these programmes to proceed quickly, but you know much better than I do that there are procedures, inflexibility. It takes effort, preparation, to reach the final result. However, I want to assure you that I believe that by September, and this programme will come out in the air, as will other programmes that we are working on, and that we are on, financial European roads that will come out of the process of their implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have covered your second. You were analytic. Mr. Placiotakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u14	Mr Minister, unfortunately, you have confirmed me. Three and a half years later, you haven't been able to get inflatable. Do you know why the three-metre supply has been late, which has actually completed the assessment of the technical specifications? For one and a half years, you have made public consultation of the technical specifications of the vessel concerned, and what have you achieved? All you have achieved is to increase the speed of the vessel from 32 nautical miles to 35. What did you do? You removed the drones from the main equipment of the specific vessel, which you know very well that the drones can help to a significant extent the sea surveillance when it was a specific vessel that had received the highest score pan-European, depriving other competing countries of the supply of the vessel. Of course, I do not want to remind you of what you said in the plenary, that these vessels may also be built in Greece. I would also like to ask you whether you have foreseen a sufficient number of members of the Port Authority who will monitor the whole process of building the vessels concerned. For the thirteen boats over fifteen meters, we didn't hear anything. For the supply of ship-site retransmission stations, for the AIS, we have heard nothing. We heard nothing about this project, of course, as well as the VTMIS upgrade project. Now for ESTEM, Minister, the technical specifications have been ready since July 2017 and you are very well aware that this system can rationalise the port patrol vessels and generally gain a comparative advantage in the surveillance of maritime borders. But what did you accept? Now take note of your mistake: First of all, you accepted in this project to include a heirous but necessary work of the Ministry of National Defence for the installation of four hundred and eighty thousand optic fibres, which concerns the Unified National System of the Ministry of National Defence, whose competition failed, of EUR 6 million. In fact, this project doubled to EUR 12 million. With what result? This work, i.e. ERASH, is limited to mobile surveillance systems from seven to two. And all this, Mr Minister, is being discussed at European Union level - and Mr Vitsas knows very well - and we have increased funds, almost tripling the funds, both in the area of immigration and in the field of maritime protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So, Minister, this is not to be lost - this is my agony - EU funds, do you intend to strengthen your ministry's specific service with additional staff? That is the specific question and I am waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u15	Minister, Mr. Placiotakis has put in new evidence. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, Mr Colleagues, we all have the same concern to equip the Port House with the most appropriate means. I must assure you that this is done at great length by all the officials of the Ministry of Shipping. However, I must assure you that it is not going to lose a single euro, but that the resources and sources are expanded so that the Port House can actually obtain the best possible means. I would say that, at some point, we can also have a debate in the House on all this programme that we are implementing in relation to the equipment of the Port Authority. We are, of course, preparing the team, which will be responsible for monitoring, implementing all these programmes once they have been secured by the contractors. I would also like to tell you that a few days ago, after the time that FRONTEX was created, I visited Warsaw. It was the first time a Greek Minister went to Warsaw. And you know, I went because I found out that all these years there's been an unequal treatment of FRONTEX in relation to other countries that their coast guard needs. Greece, therefore, on the frontline of surveillance - and this House must know - has made 50 vessels available and FRONTEX has sent us about twenty vessels. There is one question here, how these vessels are being exploited. We believe that Greece should also have greater support in covering the costs of vessels, part of these vessels, but also the staff that we have on the front line, which are about a thousand members of the Port Authority and who are also members of FRONTEX for a particular interest and special support. And we claim that, because it is not possible at the moment in FRONTEX to have sixty a position of responsibility over the last ten years and not to have a Greek. So we have made all this clear in the debate we have had. We submitted them in writing and informed the Commissioner responsible, Mr Avramopoulos, and now opens up with FRONTEX the question of Greece's equal treatment in relation to other countries, as I said, and I do not need to make a special reference. So I want to assure you. After all, I am willing, whenever you want to come to the Ministry - and I have told the House and other colleagues who have responsibility for shipping issues in general and for the Port House - to be informed by the people of the Port House and by us, because our obligation is to inform both the parties and the National Representation as a whole of the activity and to listen, of course, to the comments and recommendations. We do not think that we have the only truth, nor do we correct the reason for the truth. We are open to dialogue, because we, if you like, have the bravery to recognise the same concern from the other side about these issues that are national issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Now we will discuss the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, with a view to approving the decision of the University of Crete to set up a Business and Tourism School. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, Minister, there is a written question which has not been answered by the Ministry, and that is why it comes as an unanswered question to the House. It's very specific. There is a process of establishing departments, at the request of universities and the University of Crete has made the necessary decision to establish a School or Department of Business and Tourism at the University of Crete. Obviously within the general theme of the school there will be the Department of Tourism. I would like you to tell us whether you intend to take advantage of this decision and initiate the process so that this Department of Tourism can be established.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. By mistake, you obviously did not apologise for sitting there forty-five minutes and waiting, because of your presence on TV. It is good to respect each other in managing our time. I'm coming to your question. To clarify this: The proposal of the University of Crete is to establish a School of Tourism. School can be founded with a department, the law allows it, but we should have a proposal which are the sections under the school. Such a proposal has not come, so there is a serious issue of adequacy of this proposal. The second is the following: As you will be aware, throughout Greece we are moving on to certain synergies processes between universities, TEIs and research centres and all kinds of activities carried out in the various regions. We want to ensure the maximum possible consensus for the next step that will mark the highest education for the next ten, fifteen years. Today, we table the bill for the Ionian University and the Ionian Islands TEI, as well as the bill for the University of Ioannina and the Ioannina TEI. There have been exhaustive discussions, there have been scientific findings, there have been discussions at all levels. Even those who disagree with this project do not disagree with the procedure followed and with the consents we have reached. This proposal comes to us with a decision of the Senate with thirteen "Super" and twelve "KATA". This does not mean a consensus of the university on the establishment of the school. I would therefore like to find ways to proceed with the Department project - not the School - Tourism in Crete, but to proceed with consensual procedures and with the people involved in this case to have agreed on the next step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think there is a history of the Department of Tourism at the University of Crete. On your legislative initiative, two sections of tourism were established, one at the University of Piraeus and one at the University of the Aegean in Chios. At that time, we suggested that - in exactly the same way - part of tourism at the University of Crete, since Crete is - whether we like it or not - the area that has the economic activity of tourism. I therefore believe that the issue can be overcome in different ways. There was, of course, an earlier decision by the Minister of Education - if I am not mistaken by Mr Loverdos - about the establishment of a foreign language section. And since we are discussing the issue of the tourism section, if you are kind enough to tell us whether it is within your plans to activate. Of course, I must say that the question of the education of tourists needs a more general examination, which has to do with the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism and the schools that the Ministry of Tourism itself has under its responsibility and which do not belong to the Ministry of Education. In other words, the map of tourism education might be necessary. In any case, as things turn out to be, I think that a section of tourism in Crete, at university level and, of course, with the research programmes concerned, would not be a foreign partner, a party or not necessary. The opposite is true. I would therefore ask you to consider this proposal from the University of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u24	We have indeed moved on to the resetting of two sections, which have previously been abolished. And I am referring to the famous 'ATHENA' project that we cannot yet untie and bring us to the edge of the cliff. This was at the University of Piraeus and at the University of the Aegean, as you said, in Chios. We have indeed established these things again, we have done so again, because they were also part of a curriculum of other departments. The second is that with the bill that we are tabling today, as I have told you, we are setting up part of tourism in Corfu at the Ionian University. The third issue relates to Crete. It is obvious that a part of tourism would be "matched" to Crete. The main thing is to do so on such conditions that this section is sustainable. How's that gonna happen? We must have a sustainability study, we must have a serious consensus from the university community, because at the moment a proposal - as I told you - of 2012, 2013 is not a consensus. Of course, I saw that in your dentistry you talked about a department and not a school. Obviously we are going that way and obviously the natural space is Rethymnon with the other cognitive fields. Now, he wants a lot of attention whether he's English-speaking or not. I say 'Great attention', because there is a specific legislation that we have brought forward for the first time - to stop this specula, that we are not interested in English-languages - and that has to do with specific contracts to be made with the International University of Thessaloniki. And one last thing: in the proposal made by the University of Crete it says that "to attract students and resources from the wider market..." - etc. - "... south-eastern Mediterranean, Balkans and Asia, the proposed curriculum will have a clear international orientation and will be self-financed". We must take care of these. So, what are we gonna do? Are we going to have a tuition fee? Will Greek students enter with tuition fees? It is not by a word, within four pages, to pass something that some might want, but it is not the choice of the state. So we say 'yes' to the establishment of such a section, which would like another decision and another kind of report. And this will be part of our country's public, free higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. The fifth question will be discussed under No 1751/5-6-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on 'the adoption of measures to dismantle the islands of the eastern Aegean and especially Lesvos'. Mr. Demetrios Vitsas will reply to the current question by the Minister for Migration Policy. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, despite your occasional personal commitments to manage this most acute problem, immigration, dominating the Greek islands and especially the northern Aegean, of course, with Lesvos, the situation has escaped all control today. I'll report you some numbers. More than eleven thousand people are currently hosted on the island of Lesvos. The recorded individuals are nearly nine thousand nineteen, but in fact they are eleven thousand. In fact, they cannot be counted not only there, but throughout Greece. This number is unrealistic for the island. I must tell you that the seven thousand five hundred of them are staying - rightly - in the reception centre of Moria, which has a capacity of three thousand and fifty-two comfortable beds. There are a thousand percent eighty - three persons in Kara Tepee with today’s data and other structures of about a thousand - two hundred. For this to be understood, it is enough to tell you that 2/7 of the city's population - because that is where all structures are - are immigrants mainly and secondary refugees. Thus, a total of about 1/9 of the island inhabited immigrants. What is surprising, however, is the statement by the commander of the Moria Host Centre, Mr. Vafea, who officially announced to us that a thousand five hundred people have the opportunity to move, according to the removal of the geographical restriction, but have not been moved. I give his statement, as it is published. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, within the host centres the tents have returned, but also on the adjacent farms there are constant cases of infractionality, as well as conflicts between aliens and heteros in the same religion, I mean from a dogmatic point of view. The situation has reached a dead end and there is an insecurity among the inhabitants. There were limited conflicts between residents and migrants, but also between immigrants, and that is how social cohesion and the security of citizens are disturbed. In fact, there is also the latest CPT report. You'll have her in mind. CPT is a European Union Agency dealing with the prevention of torture and inhumane behaviour. So this report is tragic in describing the situation on our islands and especially in Lesvos. I testify to her, too, to be in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents the above-mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, Minister, the action of non-governmental organisations outside the reception centres is uncontrolled and they are constantly escalating new structures as an extraordinary solution for dismantling reception shops. These structures are unplanned, they are carried out with great care, without consultation, without a set-up plan, so the health of the inhabitants of surrounding areas and migrants themselves is at stake, but the safety of the inhabitants and of course the economy of the country is at stake. I will tell you that lately, after the incidents between Kurds and Arabs - you will know them - 250 people have gone to the Larshua region. Of course some have left. In other words, there is an informal reception centre in Larso, but there is the PICPA which is next to the airport. The first impression for a stranger to come is this. It's right next to the airport, and it looks like. Of the five hundred who went, today there are three hundred twenty-five. Of course, the Kurds went to Skamiya, who were removed. However, it is surprising that there is an inconsistency between the ministries, yours and the shipping sector, about who are responsible for controlling non-governmental organisations outside the host centres. There are two contradictory answers to relevant questions I have asked. Mr. Kourublis says it belongs to you, while you answer that it belongs to Mr. Kourublis. The question therefore, Minister, is who, at last, will control these non-governmental organisations that operate uncontrollably and as a state within our islands and especially in Lesvos. One final point is what will happen with the speeding up of the asylum procedure - primary and secondary - but also with the administrative procedures that are too late. To grade one, things are relatively good. It's not good in the second grade, as you'll know. In addition, administrative procedures are too late, meaning when the applications, objections made to the secondary body will be handled. All this completion of the procedures is a long way off. Of course, this means that our islands, and especially Lesvos, have been discredited too much, that the charter flights are cancelled, that no cruise ships have so far been hired. Also, the tour operator discourages visitors to come to Lesvos, with the result that, Minister, hoteliers, professionals, restaurants and travel agents are at despair. There is therefore an extensive sense of insecurity on our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Athanasios, you have covered your second. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the question is so formulated where we can have a comprehensive debate on immigration, but it is a little justified. So I'll tell you the following: On the second tenth day of March I was in Lesvos for the first time as Minister for Migration Policy, for the most part by participating in the government. I have spoken with all the representatives of the institutions and, of course, I have reprinted on the existing situation. On 2 and 3 May, at the North Aegean Development Conference, there was a particular theme where I announced - and we discussed in depth with the actors - a plan to decompress the islands, with our first and foremost care, Lesvos and Samos. On 15 May, the Act was passed, concerning the speeding up of asylum procedures. Within this one month - I tell you one element - the performance and decisions of grade 1 have increased by 50%. To move on so quickly, that is in a month - as you know and have experience - is of importance. I'm not saying it solves the matter. At the same time, mobile asylum teams are currently being set up, focusing primarily on Lesvos and the procedures with the Ministry of Justice are being completed, so that the appeal committees from twelve to twenty are being set up. Four of them will be reserved for Lesvos. Other things happened at the same time. We have overcome all the unacceptable temptational procedures of the Greek public regarding biological cleansing. It has already been approved, signed and initiated the main project process, together with four sub-projects, which will facilitate not only the reception and identification centre but also the entire area. It has been posted and I hope that compensation for the inhabitants of Lesbos has already begun. I don't mean to say things are good. I barely have to say to Lesvos - and I must tell you, have this as an element - there are seven hundred and twenty-one more asylum seekers since the end of 2017. I am referring to how many people have come, how many as vulnerable have gone, how many have been voluntarily returned or on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey. As I said three months ago, however, the Ministry of Migration Policy will be spending a difficult summer - so I said it - because there is a more general debate. Of course, the media took out the Ministry of Migration Policy and stayed in the difficult summer. However, the effort is a continuous one and the objective we have, so that in Moria at the end of the summer, in other words at the end of September, we have three and a half thousand people of over seven thousand who are now in existence, I think we will be able to achieve it. This is coupled with what we do in mainland Greece. This is coupled with how the procedures go ahead. After all, you know that now nine hundred new permanent officials have come to the asylum service and there will also be a notice for other two hundred, who will be in the asylum service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Events occurred - such as the fact you mentioned - in which people with different religions colluded with each other, but not just for religion. There are other issues that have to do with the war in Afrin. As you know, when something happens it can happen in an hour, in a moment, but its management is not done in an automatic way. I would like to thank the people of PICKA who contributed, despite the difficulties, to be gathered and bold. I would like to say that I do not consider the prosecutions, which have been brought before you, and you know them. Such matters are not resolved in the courts. The situation is normalized, and we are now heading to Larso. I am given the opportunity to rectify the lie, that the Ministry of Migration Policy said that the possibility of asylum should be removed from Kurdish refugees, who were out of Moria. What we have said is that those who are not in Moria lose their turn and come back to the end, which is normal. We hope - and we are working in this direction - that the situation on the basis of our programme and the removal of vulnerable people from the island will be fully settled in Larso. You also mentioned a number of things about NGOs. As you know, there is a coordination in Lesvos. In fact, we are now completing the experience of this coordination in order to apply it to all the islands. One of its responsibilities will be to coordinate non-government organisations as well as non-government organisations for non-government purposes. You know, in Pamphila, a non-governmental organization went to open a space and in consultation with the Mayor of Lesvos, Mr Galen and the district director Mrs Kalogerou, we took all the necessary steps to ensure that this was not done. In my second word, because I have already spoken for seven minutes - to mention by name what non-governmental organisations operating within Moria are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u29	We know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u30	It's important that people hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u31	Look, the debate on refugee and immigration requires meetings, conferences and a serious debate. You understand that the issues cannot be exhausted in the parliamentary control process. I was relaxed, but now in dentistry, please respect the time. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u32	Indeed, Madam President, these are serious issues that need time. However, there are some issues that, when they are so pressing for our islands, with the defamation they have suffered and the economic collapse, not only from immigration, but also from other factors, the timely questions are indeed timely. Minister, in fact, you said at your party's 14th development conference, which took place in Mytilini, that only three and a half thousand people would live in Moria. But you didn't tell us where they're going and we didn't see where they could go. Of course, we saw you did what you did with a decongestion in Patras. But I can't understand why nothing like this happened to Lesvos. On the contrary, we have seen three new reception centres being set up - I mentioned them earlier - one in Sykaminia, of which the Kurds, in Larsso and next to the airport. So we do not know why this announcement of yours has not been implemented to only three and a half thousand and to dismantle the island. So let me tell you, although as you know, I very much appreciate that your actions so far do not show such an intention, that is, the Government's intention to dismantle Lesvos and other islands. On the contrary, according to official figures, which are posted every day, we see that we have an ongoing flow on our islands. And, of course, reception centres are suffocating right now. I should just like to say that until 6 April or 16 April - it does not matter - a thousand people entered Lesbos this year. There was a night when two hundred eighty-seven people entered one 24/7. Your ministry should not, therefore, have already dismantled the islands, Mr Minister, so long as the world can breathe a little. Now, I must draw your attention to the fact that following the statement by the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mr Tsavosoglu, that he will no longer apply this declaration from the European Union and Turkey, there is a strong concern about what will happen. That is why we see that at the moment there is also a intensity of uncontrolled migratory flows to the island. I would like you to tell us if you are concerned about this, if you have any contact with Turkey, with your counterpart, to see where this situation is. The statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course, has it been made of flesh and bone? Where is he? We have the impression that we have a tension right now and too many people come to Lesvos. Until yesterday afternoon, people came out. I would like to tell you this: you see today what is happening. Solutions that we have proposed since 2015, with our national action plan, as a New Democracy, now come to be implemented by the European Union, and you could have taken a few measures too, from what we have been talking about. It does not matter who says it, because we did not say any measures to oppose the government. We have proposed measures to resolve the immigration issue. So it doesn't matter who proposes them. If it is a positive measure, all the groups must support it. You saw that also in recent bills, which I had the honour of being rapporteur, too many provisions - bills for the whole - the New Democracy supported them because it was interested in the country's interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u33	All right, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, just a minute, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u35	It's a question. You're putting ten more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, I am in three minutes and twenty-five seconds and you tell me to finish. The world isn't lost. Listen to this. Here's what Europeans do now. The leaders of 10 states of the European Union - they will now meet in Brussels on Sunday, I have notes from the foreign press releases and the websites - who will take, he says, measures to halt illegal immigration to Europe to limit the moves of asylum seekers. I am not referring to the Visegrad countries, which rejected the request - as you know - to redistribute refugees. I am talking about ten European countries, where there are no countries from Visegrad. What measures do they propose? Firstly, not unilateral and uncoordinated measures from all countries. That's right and should have been done. Especially for the asylum procedure, there had to be a single regulation, a single legislation for all of Europe, which I have been saying for three years now. Secondly, effective border guarding - that is what we all say, three years and has not been done - with modern equipment - I do not mean war equipment, but equipment with technical means for monitoring - so that by 2020 the people employed in the coastguard will go to ten thousand. Thirdly, cooperation for this purpose in the European Union with the countries of Africa, Tunisia, Morocco, Niger, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u37	Okay. Now that's what the summit will discuss, will Mr. Vits answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u38	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u39	Then why do you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u40	I'm telling you, to make it clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u41	Citizens know about it. They're reading the papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u42	They don't know, Madam President. So, what do you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u43	You're always opening up new issues, and Mr. Vitsats needs half an hour to answer you. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u44	The Minister has spoken seven and a half minutes and said nothing. That didn't hurt you. And you mind now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u45	I don't understand why you can't be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u46	So he wants to combat the secondary movements of immigrants. And, of course, as I said, Minister, until this is done, you must send the asylum committees, especially in the first place, so that we can have a faster decongestion of the islands as quickly as possible, because the situation goes no further. The world is suffering, their economy is in a terrible state, apart from the other issues of health and crime, which is on the rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u48	Mr Athanasios, the Greek Government's position on the management of the refugee - immigration - is very clear and very specific, that illegal immigration routes must be developed to hit the traffickers and that there must be forced burden sharing in all the countries of the European Union. That is the central one, what we will continue to say, and that is what gives a solution. All the others, and much more the treatment of refugees - immigration on military terms, as I hear they suggest, are memories that come from World War II or after World War II. Our view is that they must be rejected from the outset. The issue of borders should be whether or not the Geneva Treaty and the New York Protocol apply - I am not talking about you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u49	That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u50	Or if there's only one procedure facing people looking for shelter as intruders. In this context, we want the debate to take place and not to change the agenda in the European Union or in the land. As far as Lesvos is concerned, which is our first priority - and you know it - first of all, I said that we want to arrive and we will arrive by the end of September. Secondly, Lesvos has nothing to do with Patras. In Patras there was an informal camp that would give birth to secondary flows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u51	I didn't say you didn't do well. You did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u52	Let me say it, though. These people were boldly transferred to structures. I said we need to create new structures. What's the truth about Lesvos? I told you that, since the beginning of the year, asylum seekers of six thousand seven hundred twenty-six and six thousand in various ways have been in Lesvos. The ways are: fragility, on the one hand, people took asylum on the other hand, voluntary returns and returns on the basis of the joint declaration, are six thousand five. That's what we're trying to fix. It can't be from one day to the next. Nobody has a magic wand. If wars stop, it'll be a different thing. If development measures are taken for these regions again it will be a different thing. So this is the central issue, I just insist and think it is very important that the mini-summary of Sunday, but also the summit at the end of next week, in relation to the refugee - immigration for all of Europe and for where the bench will return. Now, with regard to what you said to me, I will give you the situation, so that we do not eat the time to read what the NGOs are - I imagine that you have it - but I told you that the central issue is to keep our values high, manage this thing, build the necessary things in the inland - I will answer the next question, in relation to them - and also increase the accommodation areas in apartments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u53	About the thousand five hundred with the geography...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u54	That is why I am replying to you, for the thousand five hundred, because they have no geographical limitation, but the people themselves, while they have the right to take the first ship and leave, because they have no money themselves and because they are entering a process between us and the High Commissioner, together with them, in cooperation, they come at a certain pace so that they can have the appropriate accommodation in mainland Greece as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. It was very interesting what was said, but time is relentless. We move on to the last timely question that will be discussed today, which is the sixth question under number 1748/5-6-2018, topical question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Migration Policy, on "Truths in the Centre for Reception and Identification (CYT) of Orestiada". Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. The topicality of today's question is a given, Minister, because as far as we know, nothing has changed in the Horestiada Reception and Identification Center since our visit there along with the JRC step a month ago. So what are the circumstances in this particular center? It can also be said unacceptable, but dangerous to the hundreds of refugees. It is not just that this centre is too full, of course all the Refugee Reception Centres. In particular, they are twice as much on this at the moment as on their capacity. The facilities in this closed-type centre are inadequate, inappropriate and would say, because I visited it, that it has the image of Alkatraz with the wires that exist everywhere, not only on its outer fence, but also on its inside. Furthermore, there is no sewage system, so the sewage is running here and there, in and out of the centre. In fact, in this centre, half the population is minor children who live in these unacceptable conditions. Of these minor children, most of them are unaccompanied. As far as staff are concerned, the shortcomings are very great. Eleven permanent and twenty-eight contractors who keep doing double shifts to get the job out. It cannot, as you can see, continue this. These workers are also suffering the consequences of these unacceptable and disgraceful conditions in this centre. Let us also say that, for four months now, there has been neither a doctor, a psychologist, nor a social worker, since their contracts have been concluded and no one has been hired. Therefore, there is no medical or psychosocial support. There are only two nurses, and those of the eight-month OAED programs for the most immediate needs, to refer to the incidents that arise in the Orestiad Health Center and the Duma Hospital. Our question is very specific, Minister. We would like you to tell us what you will do and when to improve these infrastructures in this particular centre, to strengthen this centre with the necessary staff and, of course, after the reception and identification of these people, the refugees, to be transferred to appropriate, human hospitality areas in open,, of course, a type of away from the border and not to other structures in northern Greece, which I imagine you are also aware of, and that they are too full, with a view, of course, to facilitating their movement into the countries of destination that they want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr Delis, it is well known that the management of the refugee - immigration - is so dynamic that a month is a long time. Let me tell you this because you had asked the question and I had been preparing for last week. Last week at the prison cell were two hundred and fifty eight people applying for asylum. Yesterday they were two hundred eleven. Its capacity is two hundred forty, as they may have informed you. It's a difficult situation. I'll answer you. At the same time in the police penitentiary - you know that there is a double system, that is, there is the police guard - which had an exceptional pressure in April and we had reached a thousand two hundred people yesterday. So I wanted to show that this is a dynamic process. Of the two hundred fifty-eight last week, two, if I remember well, were minors, of whom at the moment are seventy-two. So the thirty were transferred, as will the rest, to structures and hotel units. And it is important that we have had two meetings, one in Istanbul and one in Athens at a high level with the Turks, precisely to consider how it is possible to reduce flows, especially in Evros, because there are problems like what you say and show on the other hand the difficulty of people who manage, but also the self-sacrificing and self-determination of people who manage and do double shifts, as you say. A world of the people now hired will go to the prison, which is of great importance. I'm staying, so I don't have time on two issues. In the overpopulation process in April and May, in addition to the difficulties in moving forward, we have also dealt with two new issues. One issue is the sewer network, which is currently improving and signed so that for one year and with the European Union's funding being solved. Of course, the question is to stop the flows, not to have any flows. And the second question is that due to this flow in Diavata and in Lagadis there is an overpopulation. Treatment of this issue is that on the one hand we opened the Oinofytas, on the other hand we open up a second hosting centre, which will function as a transion, that is, they will pass through there to dismantle them. Especially in the second, in northern Greece, they will only go Kurdish. And the third is that we are already renting two large spaces so that we can create two thousand new accommodation places within mainland Greece. We raise from twenty-five thousand to thirty thousand the positions and achieve support for the ESTIA programme, and we also create a new programme, which is why we also have the help of the High Commissioner for Immigration and the International Organisation for Immigration, for those people who have received asylum, but who live as asylum seekers. Our effort is continuous in this direction. As far as health is concerned - and let me say it - there is a great difficulty. For the next four months, they shall undertake additional assistance under the guidance and supervision of CEDEFOP by doctors without Borders for four months. After the Doctors Without Borders, the Red Cross takes over for eighteen months, in collaboration with the CEDEFOP. At the end of this procedure the CEDEFOP is fully responsible for ensuring that there is adequate medical care for the people living, I hope, for a very short period of time, and it is clear that there will be neither camps nor hosting places throughout Thrace. This must be clear and I say it no to you, I say it to hear it in Thrace, because many times different interests are uploading it, downloading it, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. I have heard your answer, Minister, and I have seen a genealogy in relation to the specific issues that we have raised in particular about the conditions of this centre in Flemish, Orestiada. You said that it would improve the sewering system in the centre because the contracts have been signed. The issue, as you know, is urgent and I do not know how long this process will last until these conventions are implemented and until the work is done. You said that other centres would be set up to welcome refugees. But I stand by what you said at the beginning, that at the moment there has been a reduction in the flow. You know, you said it, too, that the flows are a dynamic thing and that they get acidified and blunt. At the moment they may not be so high, but nothing can guarantee that they will not increase in the next period, as was done in April and May due to the intervention, of course, by Turkey in Afrin. I also keep and worry about what you said in relation to the medical care of these people, that it will be entrusted to the "Doctors Without Borders", a non-governmental organisation, and then the CEDEFOP will come, and then the state will come, though and whenever it comes. But I want to stand by, Minister, especially the children who exist in this centre and which, as I said at the beginning of my position, constitute about half of the population. You know, I have a very own point of view. I've visited the center about a month ago. The conditions in which children are found, Minister, do not remind any child. It's a real prison. There is no small game, what would remind even a little childhood. It is important here to say that after the submission of this timely question of ours and the publicity it took to Evros, there was a huge wave of solidarity from schools, from institutions, from unions, from ordinary people. This, of course, honors the inhabitants of Evros, but it cannot hide the government's responsibilities and frustration with how it treats these children. Several of these children, more than a hundred - you said that they are seventy now, the number plays - they are unaccompanied. We must say here that in some four thousand unaccompanied children in our country and the structures that can accommodate them are only enough for a thousand and twenty-five if I am not mistaken. The rest of where are they going? So they wait there in the center, these seventy or a hundred, for three to four months until a structure is found to host them. I would like to say about the workers, whom I think the words of comfort and sympathy are not enough. That's right, we've spoken with them, people give their best. Let us tell you that the van that is being transported from Orestiad - stays in Orestiad, is twenty kilometers from the penitentiary - they maintain it at their own expense, there are no drivers. It is a situation which we consider to be unacceptable. Moreover, due to the lack of staff at this centre, but also elsewhere, the refugee identification procedures are delayed, and we should not talk better about asylum, which is given by the drop-taker. The law you referred to earlier in Mr Athanasios's question has put even more restrictions and obstacles to the granting of asylum, more severely, since with the slightest flaw in a refugee who may lose a deadline, he is even at risk of expulsion. I think that the fact that there is no reference to the Geneva Convention, which was a product, of course, and which has produced other correlations, in the 1950s, neither by the Government nor by the European Union - the Greek Government - is voting and supporting all the decisions - I think that every person should be concerned at the moment, of course, that both the European Union and NATO and the Greek Government participating in these organisations are the main leaders for the creation of these refugee flows, which are also caught in the islands with the well-known agreement of the European Union with Turkey. We expect more specific answers in your dentex for these questions in relation to the reception and detention centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u62	First of all, Mr Delis, some have worked very hard so that the three hundred in April become two hundred eleven in June. Life expectancy is also about it. The more people are, the worse they will live. That's the one. Secondly, as far as medical medicine is concerned, doctors without frontiers take over on 1 July for four months, and then the Red Cross - always under the supervision of the ERIC - I don't know what can be more specific - and then fully assumes the ERIC. This is also the process of transition from emergency aid to the regular assistance given to the country. Also, I told you that on this date, a week ago, it was a hundred two unaccompanied minors. Right now, it's seventy-two. Just because we recognise that there is this difficulty and we are trying to solve it, they are being transferred to hotels or to structures. At the same time, at the moment, the number you mentioned for a thousand hundred and eighty-six, in fact, is in structures of social solidarity and another seven hundred unaccompanied minors is in hotel facilities. And what we are trying to do is to shape two more thousand places for unaccompanied minors, apart from the fact that a large number - I inform you - is in the process of adulthood. Because we're talking about unaccompanied minors being up to eighteen years old. I don't understand how the law makes it difficult. The law creates conditions for things to be done more quickly, but not worse. It is also for the benefit of people who come to Greece and apply for asylum. I explained in this process that the law is not enough, but it also needs administrative acts and staff empowerment. Within this strengthening of staff measures are already being taken to strengthen prison structures. But the penitentiary is not asyluming. She's logging, IDing. So we can't send asylum teams there. The main thing is how we will be able in Thessaloniki and in all parts of Northern Greece to complete the processes faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u63	The Minister was in time. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-22-S1-commons.u64	With the consent of this House at 11.37 minutes, the sitting for the next Monday, June 25, 2018, at 17.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 23/15/28-3-2018 on the agenda.
