ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Conclusion of a Convention for the operation of the Greek Institute of Pasteur". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 March 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I have been informed by the Government that the two ministerial amendments that are in existence will eventually come in the course of the debate - Mr Skourletis and Mr Paulakis - to present them. So far, I think there are two parliamentary amendments. One is signed, among other things, by Mr. Gregorakos. He's here, so he'll support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u2	It has been rejected by the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u3	Okay. But if you want to say something, you can say it. It does not mean that because it was rejected by the Minister, you have no right to present it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u4	I'll be placed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u5	In addition, the Minister can be reassigned during the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u6	There is also another amendment concerning the ESS and signed by Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Manda. When the time comes, they can talk. Today, for the first time, we are starting the records of colleagues who want to speak with the e-card. If anyone doesn't understand it, he can raise his hand and a seat partner will come and show it to him. I hope - and I have this briefing - that the electronic vote will now take place next week. We will not have the well-known procedure that we have had for many years. I do not think there is any objection to the procedure. No one in the committee spoke to a colleague other than the rapporteurs. If we take it like this - not nobody talk, but I guess there won't be much registration - in two - three hours we'll be done. Mr. Javarra, good morning. The special 'good morning' is due to personal relationship and friendship with Mr Javarra. I say it because I haven't seen him in days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u7	Have a good day, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, you are causing us a psychological problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u9	All right, Mr. Kelles, I haven't seen Mr. Javarra in days. We are starting with the rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. I don't like immortality. I've taught you, Siya, but for formal reasons, I say Ithanasia. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u10	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you. Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Greek Parliament today ratifys the Convention signed by the Greek State with the Pasteur Institute on 31-7-2017. It's a sign date. This is, of course, not just about the ten years from the previous one, from 28-3-2008, which was ratified by Law 3733/2009 and had effect for five years with the possibility of silent renewal for another five years, ending next month. This is why - and this is a sign date - the 30 years that have been completed this year by the establishment of the Pasteur Institute in 1888. With the weight of ten Nobel Prizes, a budget near 320m euros in 2016 and three hundred doctoral students only in central, the Pasteur Institute is synonymous with the battle to promote public good health. It is a network of thirty-three institutes scattered in twenty-six countries, with a staff of twenty-three thousand of which only two and a half thousand people in Paris. The Greek Institute of Pasteur also closes this in turn close to the hundred years since it was founded. He had been aiming at the promotion of public health ever since. Like many successful projects, the establishment of the Greek Institute of Pasteur is the result of drawing conclusions after a military defeat, that of the unfortunate war in 1897. The proposal by the French military for the establishment of a Pasteur Institute in Greece exceeded the expectations and objectives of its original origin. Venizelos supported the establishment of the Institute in both public health and bilateral relations with France. Funding was made by the Greek origin Vassiliou Sakharov, approved by a Royal Decree in 1919, and the Greek Institute of Pasteur was inaugurated in March 1920. I made this little historical retreat to see that such large institutions of this importance were founded because they touched on real needs by states that decided, like the Greek one, to promote public health. The Greek Institute of Pasteur, without losing its initial goal, namely the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, used as a means of applied research and education not only of its experts, but also the dissemination of knowledge of technology through the educational system. And so, in this one century of life, he traveled a long distance. Let us keep these three objectives of the Pasteur Institute: Applied research, education, the dissemination of know-how. From the context created by the defeat of the Greek Army, the distant 1897, until now, the needs of the Greek Army, the activities of the Pasteur Institute extend to the areas of public health, biomedicals and are the direct recipient of the instructions to meet the state needs in the development, supply, production, storage and distribution of vaccines. Yes, vaccines, because it is timely for the debate on pharmaceutical industries such as 'NOVARTIS'. So, with these three objectives that it had from the outset, it has been one of the most distinct research centres in our country. It operates as a legal person under private law, is owned by the bodies referred to in Article 12 of L.4386/2016, supervised by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology and is a member of the International Network of the Pasteur Institute. While under the previous scheme, ratified by Law No.3733/2008, the members of the Institute’s board of directors were appointed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Health and Development, by this Convention - Article 4(2) - are appointed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and the Ministry of Health. We have this streamlining that had to be done in the health sector, which was already provided for in Article 13 from 2014 onwards for research, technological development and innovation. Today, of course, the research centres are supervised by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. The same applies to the organisation and its rules of procedure of the Institute, which, in accordance with Article 17(3) and (4) of the Convention of 31 July 2017, are adopted by a Presidential Decree on the basis of a proposal from the Ministers for Education, Health, Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, as laid down in Article 14 of Law 4429/2016 for the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, ELIDEC. In addition to the institutional framework governing the other research centres, the provisions of the specific institutional framework governing it are applied to the Greek Institute of Pasteur. These provisions come largely from the Convention to be ratified. These supplementary rules make an effort, on the one hand, to make the commitment and to establish a single area for education, research and innovation in the research centres and, on the other, for which this government has given enormous weight to it. On the other hand, we must bear in mind the particular position of the Pasteur Institute, which is geared to research into implementation with a specific practical orientation in the fight against infectious diseases, contributing to the promotion of public health. The Pasteur Institute, as I have said before, is developing activities in the field of education, in the fields of application research, while ensuring the supply, production and supply of vaccines, biological and therapeutic products, to meet national needs. Its activity in the field of biomedical medicine brings it closer to a new way of producing knowledge, called mode 2, in contrast to mode 1, the knowledge produced and produced in the context of scientific fragmentation at universities and research centres. Perhaps we should pay a little more attention to what 'Type 2' and 'Type 1' means. Because it is the new phenomenon that we have been facing, that societies have been facing in recent years and with which in our own country political leadership has not been involved, it is floating in a sea of contradictions that lead to problems, such as those we see with scandals in health, etc. In the new way, what we call "way 2", in areas such as biomedicals, dominates multidisciplinary and cooperation at the same level of universities, research centres, private companies and state bodies to solve the specific problems that arise. This is a big break with research tradition. Because for the first way of production the constitutional safeguarding of freedom of research is applicable, while the latter may be the subject of specific economic protection, patent rights or other industrial property, knowledge-producing bodies in "Time 2" rush to safeguard patents before putting the findings of their investigations at the disposal of the research community. Of course, under Article 3, the Pasteur Institute is a member of the International Pasteur Institutes Network and is obliged to comply with the cooperation agreement, which defines a code of conduct in an area of insurmountable competition, which has been mentioned above. I mean, in short, that while the Pasteur Institute Network has developed for this new way of producing knowledge a code of morality which is described within the principles of the Central Institute of Pasteur in Paris, on the other hand we have this insurmountable competition from multinationals, which also produce this knowledge and which we have seen where it leads. As you will see from the Convention and from the principles of the Pasteur Institute itself, it has a very strict moral code. The word 'key' is'solidarity' between the Pasteur Institutes, in the network of all the Pasteurs. Secondly, the commitments made by the Pasteur Institutes around the world are war against corruption and respect for the decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations Council of 2003. Indeed, if you look at the French text - I don't know, Minister, if you have the contract in Greek - it does not only define what a Pasteur Institute should not do, that is, bribes, have any money contact, etc. with state officials, but what's amazing is that it defines what a state official means. It starts hierarchically from the ministers to state officials, the entire hierarchical structure. I think this is food for thought, how such an institute works, this network of institutes, in conflict with multinationals. Perhaps, Minister, that would be my opinion, despite the fact that it exists at central level, that intellectual property issues would be regulated a little further and that the convention we have here to ratify. In the ten years between the 2007 Convention and that of 2017 Greek research policy acquired a profile. It was organically interconnected with the European area of higher education and European research programmes. This intensification of sensitivity to the issues of research policy resulted in the malfunctions of the Greek Institute of Pasteurs, first noted by its own researchers. The Convention to be ratified therefore amends the procedures for the election of the members and the appointment of the Director-General in order to respond to the international data governing the operation and organisation of the research centres. Article 4(1) shall define the powers of the Management Board, its composition, paragraph 3, the procedure for the election of three of its members - external - the duration of its term of office, paragraph 5 issues of compensation to the members of the Management Board and paragraph 6 - the way in which the Governing Board operates. Article 5 sets out the tasks, how to define, the selection process through a seven-member evaluation committee by international scientists and the duration of the term of office of the Director-General of the Institute which is four years, renewable once again, without being able to be elected for a third term. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u11	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u12	Article 6 describes the responsibilities, the manner of appointment and the qualifications of the Director. Article 7 defines the mode of operation, the composition and responsibilities of the International Scientific Council of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur. Article 8 describes the form of cooperation between the Greek and the French Institute. Article 9 defines the financial management of the Institute by a company of chartered accountants. Article 10 describes the legal safeguarding of the names 'Paster' and 'Paster Institute'. Article 11 is the most important article to be incorporated by the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur in the context of research centres, with all that that implies. Emphasis is placed on the continuous improvement of human resources through exchange and retraining programmes. Article 12 states that the Greek Government undertakes to pay the Institute a regular grant each year to ensure that it operates properly. The Greek Government therefore guarantees its proper functioning. It would be good at some point to define the amount and the code of this grant. Article 14 defines the duration of the contract, i.e. five years with a silent renewal for another five. Article 15 shall specify how the contract is to be terminated and how such disputes may arise. With the Greek State's ratification contract with the Institute of Pasteur, the Greek Institute of Pasteur is called upon to manage once again the huge symbolic capital it has. And don't forget that from this symbolic chapter to our hand at the supermarket, Pasteur Institute is, pasteurized milk, etc. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law serves to renew the cooperation of the Greek Government and the Greek Pasteur Institute with the Pasteur Institute, as provided by Law 3733/2009. The current contract was of five years duration plus five years of silent extension. As we have said and made it practically clear, the New Democracy wants to cooperate with every international body and institution that can contribute to upgrading the country's public policies. The Pasteur Institute plays an internationally crucial role in prevention policies and procedures for dealing with rare infectious diseases. Undoubtedly, the Greek Institute of Pasteur has contributed significantly to the fight against autoimmune and neurodegenerative diseases and it is considered necessary to continue the cooperation and creative interaction with the Pasteur Institute to enhance public health. Research is extremely important for improving and upgrading prevention and treatment procedures not only in our country, but also worldwide. In relation to this draft law: Article 1 states that the purpose of the contract is to define the rules for the organisation and operation of the EIC. That is why we reserved this in plenary in order to get answers to the issues that we raised at the meeting of the Standing Committee. I am coming back, Minister, and I would point out that we have no objection to the establishment of the EIC offices in Greece. The question, however, remains: What will be the staff with which they will be assigned? What logistical needs will there be? It is also important for the functioning of the EMCDDA how to serve and for what purposes the Diagnosis Department and the Reporting Centres. I would further point out that the description of the qualifications of the members of the Management Board will, where appropriate, distort the orientation of the EIC. You certainly call on the legislation, but the description of qualifications, Minister, has nothing to do with the legislation, but it is clearly your choice. In any case, we wish the EIC will be served with international scientists who will contribute to its research and operational deepening. In addition, the new Management Board should ensure that there is a lasting interaction between joint programmes and joint actions. Cooperation through special conventions may reduce the possibilities existing in the past, as provided by the applicable law. Finally, it would be good if we had a picture of the new organization and the Institute's rules of procedure. This rules of procedure have not yet come, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the governance of the place especially in the critical times that we are experiencing also needs cooperation and consensus. We must not constantly expose the country. And because the New Democracy, that is, we are the party that incorporated the country into the European system and the environment, and we are promoting all cooperation with international and important bodies, we are once again being called upon to defend the international image of the country. This bill could have hired a more detailed character and included provisions that would make it more complete in the current legislation. However, because it is about ratifying an international convention with a historic body, whose contribution to research and the health sector is extremely valuable, and since the path of the Pasteur Institute in our country is almost a century fully complementary to public health prevention policies, we will be voting in favour of this draft law and we look forward to the efficient operation of the Greek Institute of Pasteur in the future and to its interaction with the Pasteur Institute, in order that there will be an even greater benefit for the public health of our country. As a party, we remain faithful to our values. We are concerned about the national interest. I hope you'll understand that soon too. The country has many fronts openly to face and manage to stand on its feet. I am coming, Minister, to the two ministerial amendments. We have the Ministerial Amendment 1506/167, signed by Mrs Gerovas, Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, with Mr Skourletis. Of course, the Minister responsible is not here to hear it. This amendment, which brings to the contract a bill for an international institute, gives renewal of contracts to fixed-term private contractors. In other words, for anyone who has served for twenty-four months under contract abolishes, by way of derogation from the law, n.e. 164/2004 and it says that the contract can be renewed, that the contract can be followed up without intermittently intermittent with the void quarter. Since no one is naive in here, we understand very well what the Minister is trying to do. He's trying to legitimise existing contractors and simulate them. I would ask the Minister very much to take this amendment back. Withdraw her. It is a disgrace to young people, to young children, graduates with postgraduate degrees, to try to simulate people who have entered in any way as contractors. At last, let's get serious in this country. The second amendment under number 1507/168 refers to the transfer of pupils to the regions which have not been guaranteed the tenders made and designates the Economic Commission to award the temporary contributor. We, and in this amendment, say 'no' to the extension of exceptional procedures. There's time to take care of them and do them as they should. Now there is a parliamentary amendment from Mr Manda. I don't know if the Minister will accept it. If he does, I'll be placed then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u15	Me too, Mr. Kelles. With Mr Kelles' descent, he also closes the list of colleagues who want to be registered to speak. We shall now proceed with Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, a special speaker from the Democratic Partnership.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the morbid and barbaric climate that currently prevails in the political life of the country, in no way overshadows the real problems of Greece and the economy. Let us all wish here today for our soldiers to come back quickly, for their adventure to be over with Turkey and for our relationship to the neighbouring country to be restored. We're all right on our side. He needs wisdom, consent. But, above all, national reconciliation is needed and is currently not there. In Parliament, at least, it does not exist, but in society either. The stubborn events - to remember what François Mitterrand said - bring us back to the merciless reality. The country is walking in the desert without any prospect of recovery appearing. Production and economic life are declining. Get on the market. Parttime work reaches 50% of private sector employees. I see, I have an opinion. The standard of living of citizens has been drastically reduced. Wages and pensions know unprecedented compression. More and more young scientists are being added to the cobbled exit from the country. Doctors in hospitals are diagnosed, old, tired, gone abroad. I shall be placed in your amendment, my dear Mr Papadopoulos. But I'll say it now. Is it possible to bring an amendment and say that four years of doctors have to become director? Don't level it all! Four years of doctor with pre-service to become manager?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u17	It's the current system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u18	Sakhi - I'm sorry about her, but we've known each other from the university for that - it's not possible for you to be a manager for four years. You're nowhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u19	We didn't do it. It's the system that's in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u20	But we didn't do it either. Don't tell us that stuff now. I saw the amendment. Four years of principal? Nowhere. Wherever you go, there's no way you're going to be a manager, how much more you're becoming director of the National Health System. Don't level it all! Overtaxation pisses off households. Investments are backing up. But the rulers are always selling us algae for silk ribbons. They're talking about recovery, they promise to raise wages, they give the post office an increase. The post offices are down, they're indebted and they're increasing in the post office. They're talking about getting out of the Memorandum. After eight years of magnificence, we are promised memorial Greece. So cynical, bro? At first, didn't you promise us that you'd kick them? Then you didn't discover the famous program of Thessaloniki? Aren't you changing the laws according to your will and with whoever's applying to bring anyone who wants to the Koudalus? Now you're investing in the clean exit? Out, yes. We have to get out. It's not clean. Regling said so to Delphi. Commission continuously until 2060, memorandum until 2022. So this promise is a prank. The unbearable debt, the problem of insurance, the inefficient administration, the tax craving. There's no insured anywhere. No one's insured. The delay in giving justice, the anti-educational climate, confirms the decline in the worst way. The Prime Minister-in-Office of the Council yesterday - and where he appears - undoubtedly seeks to disorientate public opinion. It is not just the deadlocks and problems of the economy and the place that cancel the promise of the end of the memorandum. They are also the commitments we have made towards our creditors. It is a distortion of reality when we deliberately ignore that we will remain in the Committee and be committed until we cover 75% of our borrowing obligations. We must not lie to the people, create hope for them. The only concern of the government is to ensure the unprecedented surpluses to obtain credit from the third memorandum, to eliminate the middle class and give benefits. The government's policies are draining productive and economic activity so that they can come back and talk about overcrowding and then share misery, share social benefits with a tip. At the same time, we must nominate everywhere, as you are going to do today with the amendment. There's no gap, no conventions going ahead. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There was, at least, a contraction for the eyes of the world. Commander at the Syrian Hospital, Head of the Parliament's Budget Office, we do not give the CV. Watch out. The New Democracy used to do the same with Liargova, but there was no change in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Then he could do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u21	With PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u22	With PASOK. He could do what he did. That's right. There was no notice. Today there was a proclamation. I tell you, Mrs Readostopoulou, because I believe that at least we can reach agreement. We're making a call, we're putting it in, and we're looking at everyone's qualifications. I did not say that you should not choose the best one that would be yours, but that there would be an elementary transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u23	He was qualified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u24	I don't care what he did. I wanted to know the others. I also wanted to know if the others were qualified and who was more qualified. When you make a call, it's based on a scepticism and qualifications. So I wanted to know how many others together were qualified and who was most qualified. I'm not saying if he was qualified. It's not personal. All of this and many other things you will hear - because this is the role of Antipopulation, to criticise you - they do not compose political changes of the country, how much more so when the Minister of Public Order answers the Mayor of Athenians by telling him "go change any lamps". These are not politics. They've brought us back many years. I come to the point, Mr President. The Pasteur Institute's bill is a good bill. I have an opinion and you have an opinion, because we have been involved for many years in these matters. I believe that it was a great donation of Vassilis Sakharov, but also of the French Government in Greece, where the difficult times have helped us greatly in vaccination, in the production of vaccines and serums and in the microbiological diagnosis. All doctors know, Mr President, the contribution of the Pasteur Foundation, especially in the difficult years after the war. In the years that passed, it was the contribution of the Greek Institute of Pasteur to the control of many and serious infections. By the end of the 1970s and 1980s, those who dealt with infections, the difficult infections every time we resorted to Pasteur to give us an important, documented scientific response. Tuberculosis, leprosy, polio, lismoniasis, very rare diseases for Greece, Pasteur had to give us an answer and for us it was an important aid in our hands, which we were looking to find the various responses to bibliography, but at the same time we were looking to find answers to the major health and infection problems the Greek population had with the febrile diseases of the '60s, '70s, '80s, '90s. Today the situation in public health services is very different. We've evolved. There's a lot of technology. The Greek Institute of Pasteur has no reason to exist unless it remains in its traditional objective, its "Pasterian" role, because the National Health System has developed many services. So it has no reason, unless it remains in this role that it has and was very important, that is to say if it combines scientific research, the provision of health services and the connection to the network of the Pasteurs of the whole world which we can obtain from there a lot of information with our cooperation, but also to retrain, as we have done in the first few years. If the Pasteur Institute is limited to research today, it will not differ in any of the other research institutes we have in the country. We don't want to. We got a lot. Once again, if it is limited to providing services, then these services will not be top-level services, it will be a day-to-day service and nothing else. In other words, it will not be on the forefront of the battle for microbes but on the routine like the large hospitals that the country has, and indeed enough today too, because the university clinics and the CSH clinics have very good scientists and have very good microbiological laboratories. Once again, if this pastor is disconnected by the network of thirty-five Easter Institutes around the world, then it will be deprived of much and above all will be deprived of its international recognition. He will be deprived of the common scientific programmes. It will also be deprived of continuing education and exchange of scientists and opinions. Because in the first few years, when the Pasteur Institute was working well - because it does not work, it fails - we came here and went there to exchange views between us, in the context of the possibilities that this foundation had. I am not saying that the Pasteur Institute has been operating on SYRIZA in the last ten years because of the crisis. Finally, it will not have direct access to knowledge, after-schooling if it remains this way, especially for tropical diseases or for new-born diseases, as happened earlier with AIDS or recently with HPV, but also with Ebola two - three years ago, when we faced this communication storm that had very much political and intrigue within it. Pasteur was what gave Ebola the general guidelines. CEDEFOP, on the other hand, tried, he couldn't. We had more experience in Pasteur, all the pastors in the world gave us their own experience. And we had this because we had a great connection in the world. So the proposed contract, the bill, is a product of joint processing with the French scientists, the French managers, the French managers and the French managers, and it serves the purposes I have told you before, so we will vote in favour. But, Minister, we do not vote for your mismanagement. Because the Greek Pasteur Institute is underfunded. It's not refreshed with scientists from abroad. You only have one doctor, whom I know personally, with serious clinical and research experience. He's very good at doing his work, he's the pyrobat of the Pasteur system. However, they do not support all the other reference centres of the Greek Institute of Pasteur and they do not support either the Reference Centre for influenza or measles - which we have had major cases and deaths in Greece, in recent years, we have reached the hundreds of eighty - in Greece, neither red nor gonococcoli nor polio. So there's a problem. Of course this is because you too neglected it, as you do with the vaccine and quality control team, which is the only one in the country. And it took recently - you know very well, you did it - the intervention of the Nicaraguan Foundation in order to start renovation work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because on this one is your own mismanagement. You have a very good tool that can help you in the vaccines and you do not use it. Stop using the CDC. He was denounced in the eyes of the world, in society, in scientists. Give Pasteur the opportunity to produce vaccines and even enter the process not only of production, but also of the process of vaccine competition. The political system has been hurt by this process. I've been talking to you about mismanagement, because since the day you've been government, for three years, you've changed the board twice. You certainly expected the bill to come to the House. There is no point in changing management boards. You've changed it twice. I think that's what he says, that you changed it twice over the last few years. Our opinion is positive and it would be more positive and we will confess to you in the House if we see that there is a better management of things, processes, work and the organization of the Greek Pasteur Institute. I shall refer to the four amendments, Mr Minister. We will be positive, as we were the last time you tabled an amendment, to extend the transport of students. But put the cost next door, Minister. How much is the cost? You didn't tell us. We can't go across this. And last time we voted. I think you brought it, Mr. Skourlet. But we will say 'no' to the extension of contracts, without intervening in the quarter, because we believe it is a window for permanentization. We say 'no' to SYRIZA's parliamentary amendment. We need to make the National Health System more qualitative. With this amendment you are bringing, Mr Papadopoulos, I think that we are pouring it more, deceiving it scientifically, we are not giving him the opportunity to renew it. They're tired of the doctors of the National Health System, dear Mr. Papadopoulos. Don't do that. Give young people a chance to get in. Give an incentive to those who are abroad to come to Greece, to serve these positions that you want to put. Don't put people of sixty in hospitals. Offering an exterior what? Last night, I got a colleague for an incident at the Oncology Hospital "The Saints Anargyroi". I'm calling and a colleague of mine picks up. Should I say my years? I'm sixty-four. I say: 'What are you doing?' He says to me: "I am inspecting." She's a director, and she's keeping an eye on it, like all the directors do, because there's no one else. There are no trainees or caregivers at this clinic. She's four directors, and the managers keep up with it. Shouldn't we see this whole thing together, and what are we going to do? Does it make me an amendment now to get 60 years of age doctors back as curator I or managers? We say 'no', so. And, of course, in my amendment to the previous bill for university students, I was told by the Minister that she did not accept it. I say take a look at her again. It's not bad to go until the end of the year the universities who leave the academic year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, fifty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Gerakas (First Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Gregos, I would ask you a little for your tolerance, since Mr Skourletis has come, it is also useful, I think, for five minutes to present the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u26	I shall present my second amendment for the students.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u27	Because I saw that you also signed the first amendment, I thought you might want to support it. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u28	The Minister for the Interior usually signs 90% of the amendments. You'd see me all the time. That's not good. Thank you, Mr President. The reason, as you have already said, is to support the amendment with a general number of 1507 and a special number of 168. It is an issue that we have dealt with on several occasions, that of the transfer of pupils for primary and secondary education. As you know, this project is the responsibility of the regions. The proposed provision allows for an extra extension to the economic committee of the regions, until the completion of the respective tenders, to award the services for pupils. You realize that something different, in the middle of the year, would have devastating consequences for themselves. Of course, I would like to say this: although this does not mean an extra expenditure on the budget, because it is covered by the existing budgets of each region and even though the same picture does not appear for each region, there are regions that operate in one way or another and usually in the same regions every year the same malfunction is detected. This has been our concern and we are also in agreement with the Ministry of Education, but obviously also with the central body of the ENP regions, to see an overall way of adapting and improving the system for the transfer of pupils, unified for all of Greece, despite the fact that the geographical situation, the morphology of each region, is not uniform. We have mountainous areas, we have scattered schools, so many needs, which vary from region to region. The way of monitoring must be uniform, electronic, at the least cost and the best and most reliable provision of service. All this, of course, until they do, does not mean that students should not go to school. In this sense we call for this four-month extension until 30-6-2018, with appreciation and hope in consultation with the main players, who are the regions, to find a system now and not come every year with the same extension, because in some regions they cannot respond to that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u29	Before the Minister leaves - although I have seen that the amendment is generally accepted - anyone wants to ask about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u30	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u31	On the amendment alone. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u32	Minister, of course, we all agree that pupils should be transferred to schools and, of course, that is - as you say - the task of the regions. But you yourself said that every year it is almost the same regions that have the same problem. But the state cannot come, the minister can legislate according to these, a few regional authorities, who do not normally do their job. So, the others, who normally do their work and do the transport and do it perfectly, are they fools?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u33	No placement, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u34	The amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u35	In your speech you will take the floor again. We don't place now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u36	We cannot go to prolonging exceptional provisions indefinitely. Let the regional authorities comply, since they - and as you yourself said - are almost always the same every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u37	Don't waste time putting me in. I told you to ask for clarification. Otherwise, when you get your dentistry, you'll say what you want. And on that, I think the Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u38	The New Democracy says 'no' to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u39	A system must be introduced so that the phenomenon does not exist from time to time. Mr. Kelles is right. Mr Minister, first listen to everyone - because I see Mr Theoharopoulos who wants the floor - and answer the whole question. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u40	I'm going to ask a question for clarification. I'm not gonna set up. Minister, as our rapporteur has told you, we are positive on this provision and are voting on it. On this, however, we did not receive an answer. The level of this expenditure - you say means - depends on facts. The level of expenditure in our view should be known, especially in the case of an extension of a contract for a quarter. The facts, therefore, in this case you know them. Why is there no calculation in this particular amendment? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u41	Does anyone else want to ask the Minister? Nobody. Answer these, Mr. Skourletis, and you're free of charge. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u42	First of all, I am pleased that you all recognise that what is going to happen is necessary so that in the middle of the year some children do not stop, due to a lack of transport capacity, their studies. This is the extortion - within or outside the introductory part - of reality, because we are talking about this sensitive issue. I should first like to say that I first recognised the need, always - I repeat - with the Ministry of Education but also with the regions to find a more effective way. Already pilots in the Region of Western Greece and Attiki implement a more advanced, more modern system. And we are studying this, to see whether this ultimately responds with a greater adequacy in this case, so that we can copy it or in any case apply it uniformly in the other regions. From there on, the New Democracy has said that it will not vote on this amendment. It's your right. Imagine taking this position as well. In other words, to the children that, because some cannot respond to their responsibilities, they will stop schools and will not take the children to school until we think about what we are going to do. Think again, then, and you until the end of the meeting. I understand your objections, I mentioned them first. Look at it so that, at least, we agree on it. As far as the level is concerned, it is for the regions to take part in the CFPs for this expenditure, for the transport of the pupils as a whole. Every district knows. That doesn't change. The point is how she handles it herself. So, obviously, because we are talking about the award of tenders that have not been completed and their final contracts are signed - I do not know what can cost - I know - in the Peloponnese Region, which we have a problem in Laconia, as far as I know, or in the region of Central Macedonia, which at times also poses problems. However, as I have said before, this does not alter the total amount of expenditure, at least, in relation to what the State gives through the CFPs for this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, twenty-one students and an educational attendant from the 4th Amarousio Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome both the students and the teachers. Let me begin with the amendment which we are debating now and which concerns the transfer of pupils. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. Whether it is the government and the relevant ministry or the regions that are responsible for this problem must finally be solved. About the bill. This ratification of the Convention for the National Institute of Pasteur was tabled last year on 31-7-2017 between the Greek Government of the National Institute of Pasteur, the Ministry of Health and the National Institute of Pasteur and the targeting of the organisation and the modernisation of the institution's operation. With regard to this new ratification, as mentioned, problems have arisen in connection with the organisation and operation of the Institute, and the way in which decisions are taken and the institutions are formed. Even the purpose of the ratification is to prevent the centralised system, i.e. the over-concentration of powers, which, of course, gives rise to intense remembrance, if not ironically, to assess the practice of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, in previous draft laws, to which they place their Ministers as positioners by entrusting them with a crucial role and a multitude of powers. The ratification of the contract reflects - thus referred to in the explanatory statement - the Government's sensitivity to the exploitation of scientific potential and to the interconnection of research with the country's productive reconstruction. The epitome of political extremism, considering the lack of motivation and conditions for young scientists who leave abroad, seeking the recognition that the Greek state takes them away. The aim of the Foundation is twofold: on the one hand it promotes research, and on the other it is a body of public health actions. In addition, it may also grant scholarships to young researchers. Public health support in particular in times of demographic crisis and the promotion of biomedical research are the main objectives of the Foundation. The action it develops focuses on public health, biomedical medicine, basic and applied medical research with importance for infections and neurodegenerative diseases. It is also active in the research, production and disposal of vaccines and in education. Now, as regards the composition of the Management Board, it is deducted from the five members. However, there is a clear vagueness, and we have also told the committee that, in respect of the two external members of the board of directors, which, according to Article 4, are scientists with international authority, experience and activity in relation to at least one of the objects of the institute. Also, in Article 4 there is a clear contradiction between the report on the need for the lifting of over-concentration of powers and the joint ministerial decision between the Ministers on the basis of which an open call for candidates is published for the selection of the three members, as well as on the basis of the CSR of Education and Health Ministers, the Committee for the evaluation of candidates is set up. Here, in other words, we find the definition of a lack of transparency procedures, as the Pasteur Institute or the international scientific board or the institution's scientific board propose nominations, but the ministers are adopting the joint ministerial decision to set up this committee and it is in turn to approve the applications. The composition of this committee, which will assess the candidates, is also worthwhile. In other words, the three members of the seven who make up the committee may come directly from the Ministers. In accordance with Article 4, the National Research and Innovation Council may finalise the list of applications proposed to it. But then, in this list, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health can be privatised and these three members appointed with their alternates. It is also understandable from other provisions that, together with the necessary update of the contract, which actually takes precedence over key and radical changes in research and technology, also promotes micro-political purposes: promoting party elements and, if not, trying to serve the party interests, if not, to reach the institute in the sphere of political influence of SYRIZA - ANEL. In view of the above, we will vote'representations' in this specific sentence for these objections I have mentioned before. For the amendments I said that we would vote'residence' on the transfer of pupils and vote against the other amendments. I shall also refer to a number of general issues. Yesterday in Thessaloniki there was an arson attack on Metropolis Naples and Stavroupolis. Four gazettes were placed. Of course, no arrest was made. There are clear orders not to be arrested in such cases. You know very well what's going on. They are the so-called 'Your children'. It is certain that these attacks with specific objectives will continue. I went there myself and saw what has happened and informed the people concerned. Questions have also been tabled. I repeat again that there will be no arrest, no production, and that is why there will also be no arrest and no production for the phenomena of violence and lawlessness prevailing in the center of Athens, Thessaloniki and the rest of the towns. As I said before, they are your so-called 'children'. Let me say here that I had tabled a relevant question to the Minister responsible, Mr Toska, on the re-establishment and re-establishment of the DELTA Group. It was the famous DELTA Group, which had achieved great successes. It was the fear and terror of these stains that plunge the center of Athens, the universities and the rest of the places. I re-substantiated this question a few days ago. I am sure that this will not happen, although in statements I have seen from representatives of the police, they themselves want the re-recommendation of the DELTA Group. In fact, this government has been put into a government of violence and lawlessness, and this also causes the anger of both the Greek people and the commercial world in particular. Let us also say that there is a very big lie - the previous speaker has mentioned - about Greece coming out of the memorandum and supervision. It's a big government lie. Like a great lie, too, it is what it says about the subject of name. In fact, we hear the government keep saying and those who advocated all of this, that the Macedonian government is a dialectical government. It's a big lie, too. It's an uncompromising government. It accepts no change in any name, no constitution, and even they have come to suggest that we change our country's constitution. But lies end and soon the anger of the Greek people comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u45	We close with two speakers, Mr. Lambroulis who is in the Chamber, and I invite him to Step and Mr. Mavrotas who, if he hears us, come. He was in the Chamber, of course, man. Dear George Lambroulis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The changes promoted through the bill for ratification of the contract of operation of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur, mainly concern the organisational administrative part, such as the most supervised Ministries of Education, Health, the changes in the number and composition of the members of the Board of Directors, in its term of office, its responsibilities, the way in which members and others are elected. In fact, the changes, as the parties consider, will help the Institute to perform its role better and on the basis of what is stated in the explanatory statement, in order to modernise the institutional framework for the operation of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur, so as to comply with modern scientific data in the fields of medical and public health. In our view, this is a necessary modernisation that is being promoted and which is moving in the direction of the Institute's commercial operation, in which it has been gradually and continuously adapted for years. The Greek Pasteur Institute is a well-known branch of the Easter Institute of France. It operates, like the parent, as a company financed by the State. Proof of this is, for example, the elements of the 2016 report, which show the further deepening operation of the Pasteur Institute, the parent company, i.e. as business organisation, since its income by 44% comes from its business activity and relate to research contracts with the government and private individuals, intellectual property rights, sales of goods and services, such as vaccines, diagnoses, treatments. Accordingly, among the objectives of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur, as stated on its website, it is also the commercialisation of some of its research products, while during the last few years in the Greek Institute of Pasteur there has been a growing number of patents and several research and development programs in cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry, which use some of the products of the Greek Institute of Pasteur. It is precisely this reinforcement of freight operation and the resulting adaptation to competitiveness that is the main issue, which effectively overturns the nature of the institution as non-profit making and that it works in the public interest, as referred to in the bill in Article 2. Today, the Greek state continues to participate in the financing of the Greek Institute of Pasteur. However, the work produced over those years is not integrated as knowledge and production of work within the public education and health system. As soon as the property is recognised, i.e. the foundation for the development of the institute's business activity, this - among other things - takes away the basic need and priority that had to exist for the creation of such services as far as possible by the State, rather than forming the field of agreements in which the profit element prevails. It is precisely in this context that the so-called public interest does not match people's needs and popular interests. It is well-known, for example, that the issue that has arisen with tuberculosis vaccines, which are patents of the Pasteur parent Institute and where there was a shortage to meet the needs of the population in our country. However, in the current circumstances and in the field of research it is known that its orientation is largely determined by the coexistence of research centres with the choices of business groups, with the profit criterion, which is a key political direction of the European Union. Moreover, the Europe 2020 strategy also specialises in research, which links more directly the research activity of research centres, universities and their monopolies and targets. Similarly, the creation of the European Research Area by the European Union, as well as the co-financed NSRP research programmes, fully direct research deeper towards private financial operation, undermining that part of basic research that is not profitable to capital. Result? The financing of research procedures depending on whether their results are commercially exploitable, i.e. whether the research results are guaranteed by patents and trademarks, serving the needs of business groups and the need for their profitability. That is why the answer to the question'research by whom and for whom?' is of fundamental importance to the Communist Party of Greece. Research and development for monopolies and their power, as promoted by the European Union, the present and the previous governments and parties that bow down to the European Union or to satisfy modern folk needs? We believe that the production of new knowledge is a social product and as such belongs to everyone. A necessary condition to achieve this is to compel research by the laws of individual property, patents, trademarks and others to allow for the free wide dissemination and exploitation of its results for the improvement of human life, to abolish the possibility of setting up companies operating research products by universities, research centres or by members of their scientific staff. Research on the development path for which the Communist Party of Greece is struggling, whether carried out in universities or research centres and in cooperation with sectoral state bodies, can make a decisive contribution to scientific prediction and design, towards meeting social needs. Thus, it can contribute to the development of production and use of wealthy sources, for example, of the country to meet the needs of the people's family, including improving the health of the people with cheap medicines, new treatments, studying and addressing social phenomena and problems, improving the quality of life and living conditions of the working people with care for the environment. All of this is proposed in the context of a planned economy with the means, infrastructure and resources in the hands of the people and the organisation of production as a whole, as well as research aimed at meeting people's needs. In this context, it will be radically different to life and conditions for workers in research production, enabling them to concentrate their efforts and potential on the full strengthening of research activity, so that the living standards of the people can be raised rapidly. All of this makes our criticism sound that the Greek Institute of Pasteur really has great potential because of its long experience, but also because of its scientific staff, which is inhibited by the outcome of this activity of their work, so as to contribute to public health as a universal free and modern right. That is why, Mr President, we shall vote 'at present' in the bill. We will obviously have the possibility, in the second instance, of putting ourselves on the amendments as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u47	You will have a second word, because there are few registered speakers and there is time. Minister, because three colleagues have been written, I say that the three speakers should speak, you should take the floor, and then I will give the floor to the parliamentary representatives. We'll be closing down with a second-guessing rapporteur for whoever wants it. Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The Greek Institute of Pasteur complements a century of action and offering to Greek society. The founding of the Greek Institute of Pasteur came from a series of events that began with the need to reorganise the Greek army at the beginning of the 20th century after the Greek-Turkish war of 1897. Eleftherios Venizelos supported the establishment of the Institute in the context of both public health policy and the tightening of bilateral relations between Greece and France. In other words, the 'Greek-French alliance' seems to have old roots, older than those of the 1970s, which the motto prevailed and which we saw recently come back to. On April 26, 1919, the founding of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, the Sakharov Foundation as the Greek Institute of Pasteur, established by Vassiliou Sakharov, was adopted with a mission to address the serious problems relating to public health in the country at that time. The project was financed mainly by Greek origin Sir Basil Sakharov, a friend and supporter of Eleftherios Venizelos. Since its establishment until today, the Greek Institute of Pasteur has been responsible for preventing and treating infectious diseases through basic research, education and provision of services to public health. Apart from focusing on the fight against infectious diseases, the aim of research at the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur is to fight other diseases, such as autoimmunes, neurodegeneratives, neuromusculars and various forms of cancer. Today the Pasteur Institute is a centre of reference and excellence for neurosciences and central nervous system diseases, which include Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and central spine injuries. It is worth noting that it is the country's oldest research institute in the field of biomedical research and the second most ancient since the Athens National Observatory, while maintaining strong partnerships with the Pasteur Institute in Paris and other network institutes in North and Central Africa, Southeast Asia, Europe and Canada. Let's go to the bill, then. This bill redefined the activities of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur in the areas of public health, biomedical, research, education, etc. This includes the operation of a diagnostic department and reference centres, as well as the possibility of awarding scholarships to young researchers, which is very important in order to prevent the leakage of scientists abroad. As we said in the debate in the Committee on Morphics, we will vote in favour of this draft law, which comes to ratify a contract which is the product of negotiation between the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Greek Institute of Pasteur and the Parental Institute of Pasteur, with the aim of modernising the operation of the Greek Institute by replacing it by 8-32008 with a contract between the same parties that was ratified by Law 3733/2009. In addition, this law established the need to relegate, as there was a provision for a five-year period with the possibility of a five-year tacit renewal. And it is worth noting here that the ten-year duration expires in January 2019, so the new contract is in time, and I say this with emphasis because we are so used to retrospective arrangements that have caused us a pleasant surprise that the appropriate arrangements are made within the deadline. We will all agree that updating of relevant conventions is necessary in order to follow scientific developments and meet new needs arising at operational and operational level. In this context and correctly, following its predecessor, the contract to be ratified provides for its duration in five plus five years. So in a decade, I guess some others will be here discussing the ratification of a new contract. A characteristic of the contract is the limitation of the duration of the terms to four years from five, while the possibility of renewing them for once. One general remark we have here concerns the administration of agencies, and it is this: there must be a compromise between non-permanence and continuity in administration, and perhaps progressive, periodic change of a percentage of the members of the boards should be the best option. We have now made our remarks on the articles in committee. It was a few minor remarks. For us, it is a matter that, after so long, there are not internal regulations, not only at the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur, but also at many research centres and we are all asking for extensions. The last time requested an extension was recently at the University of Western Attica in Article 20. In passing on to the amendments, we have heard Mr Skourletis on the subject of the transfer of students, we will also expect to hear Mrs Gerovas or Mr Polakis - who will come? - on the question of contractors of fixedterm private law, an amendment which comes to a ratification of a contract with the Pasteur Institute. You really have humor. It seems, because you want to move on to pasteurisation, that is to say maintenance, in keeping with the expectations of some workers, you have found the appropriate bill to bring this amendment. Let's go on some topical issues too. On the question of the choice of the new Head of State's Budget Office in Parliament, Mr Gregorakos referred earlier to the same subject: Caesar's wife must not be honest, it must be seen! So transparency in biographics, since this procedure was in open notice, let's see who the other candidates were, I think it was something that had to be done and then let's make your choice, but let's know who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were who they were. To get out of the loan contract in August, to spend a little time financially, there is a lot to be said about the next day. A debate has already begun on a net exit, on a credit line, on a pillow line. I hope that these pillows do not refer to summer night dreams, because we are talking about August, which go hand in hand with political narratives, but not with economic reality. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude with the most serious issue perhaps of topicality, as well as of the arrest of the two members of the Armed Forces, which I hope will end quickly, and which concerns developments on various national issues. The Prime Minister mentioned yesterday the thought of establishing a National Security Council. We have tabled a proposal for a law since December 2016 - in any event - for the establishment of a National Security Council, a National Security Council that will assist the government in making critical decisions, which exists in many Western countries. Its aim will be to co-formulate a given and constantly updated national security planning at the highest level, so that the country is prepared to deal with any serious incidents and these events and the possible consequences have become alarming, I would say, lately on national security issues. Besides, Potami has pointed out that the challenges are not tackled with anger or intergroup rivals and that foreign policy and defence issues presupposes consensus and consensus. Therefore, the competence of the National Security Council includes, among other matters of foreign policy, diplomatic and defence-related threats to the country, defence strategy, coordination of information and security of citizens and resources. So take up the proposal we submitted in December 2016 and have submitted it, study it, and bring it to Parliament to discuss it, amend it, if necessary, and legislate. It would take a lot more time, instead of talking about the past in communication terms, to talk about the future on essential terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u49	Without what I would say to Mr Mavrotas, as it concerns all of us, I would like to remind you, because I see it being done constantly, Article 66(8): 'The speaker cannot move away from the subject under discussion. Otherwise the President must invite him to return to it. If he doesn't comply, the President warns him he'll take his word off. Although after this new labelling the speaker does not return the matter, the President shall remove the floor.' Today, we have the comfort of time and that's why you saw that I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u50	That is why, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u51	I said, Mr Mavroy, that it is none of your business, and it is all of us that I am currently chairing when I speak underneath, that I have done so. Just don't forget when we go up to the Step that we're mostly talking about the issue, which we're going up to the Step. Now three of my fellow speakers are following, Mr Papadopoulos, Mrs Antoniou and Mr Georgantas, the Minister is speaking and then any of the parliamentary representatives wants to speak. Ms. Vaki, as I represented the government majority, will speak lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u52	Let Mrs. Vaki take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u53	That's what she asked me to do. So I'll be there in a row. Please, Mr Papadopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes, with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u54	I considered it self-evident that all the wings of the House would agree to ratify a new contract between the Greek Government, the Paster International Network and the Greek Pasteur Institute, which would replace the previous one on 28 March 2008. Following the detailed suggestion made by Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, I think it is very simple to see that the arrangements of the new contract are the result of negotiations and signatures that fell on 31 July 2017, with the aim of modernising the operation of the Hellenic Research Centre in the fields of medical science and public health, which also faces malfunctions, redefining organisational rules and amending decision-making procedures and establishing institutions, aimed at stimulating democratic participation and control. Mr Giorgos Lambroulis' speech leads me to say a few things about the objective of the operation of the Pasteur Institutes and of our own. Because what has been said about the organization of research, with development, which must aim for man, is clear that it is also about the operation of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, as well as of the Network. Because it is a non-profit-making institution, that all the procedures concerning initiatives to deal with infections by micro-organisms and humans and animals, for neurodegenerative diseases, for the production and supply of vaccines, biological and therapeutic products with priorities always concern those relating to needs, which are documented and even for education, for the award of scholarships to young researchers, are common to all of us. I hope that the present, which has been said, dear George Lambroulis, will be a positive vote after the process has been completed, as I think everyone will agree that the purpose of legislating is to solve exactly the problems of better organisation and better decision-making in all these areas. I would like to give some clarification on the amendment, which we are tabling, and I and Mr Christos Mantas, in particular, in order to abolish some age restrictions on taking up the position of doctors in the National Health System. In tabling this amendment we have led to problems which we have identified in many parts of the country and especially to cover positions in barren 'type B' areas. For 'Type A' we had already foreseen abdominal and problematic areas that could be covered without age limits. Let us make it clear that what has already been done enables us to resolve issues mainly in health centres, in regional hospitals on islands, where we are meeting this issue. Is it possible that a doctor, who is at the age of fifty one, fifty two, will not be able to join the National Health System? It is clear that we need such regulations, such as the one Mr Leonidas Gregorakos mentioned. The legality, which had already been made by a previous article of Law No.4368/2016, provided for that arrangement for which he argued. He says: should we not motivate young doctors, doctors who are experienced and cannot, for their own reasons, but also for the weaknesses of the health system in the previous period, as the restrictions led experienced doctors to leave abroad, to be able to come and claim a place of caretaker I or manager, after two and four years respectively? This provision is simply mentioned by the regulation we are doing with the amendment. I think that all this argument, which requires young, experienced doctors to come to serve our country's health system, with the gaps that we have, with the arrangements that we make, and the autonomous emergency departments, and to cover the primary health system in many areas, enable them to come and serve the National Health System. I therefore think that this amendment simply facilitates things, facilitates staffing and should be seen again so that it can be approved by all the wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u55	However, Mr Papadopoulos, it does not restrict it to the areas you have said, it is general. It can even claim in the "Evangelism", not just for health centers and barren areas. Here's a thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u56	No, it's all around. We've already legislated...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u57	Okay. We're moving on with Mrs. Antonio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the three colleagues - all three - are all and all, two in essence, because Mr Papadopoulos spoke - and before the Minister speaks, I will give you the floor. Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. You'll allow me, because I'm elected to Castoria and because one of the two officers comes from my constituency, Castoria, to make a very little report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u61	Everyone did, so I allow you, Mrs. Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u62	So then, on Monday's occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to both of our Members, one of whom, the twenty-five-year-old lieutenant, comes from my constituency, Kastoria. I would therefore ask the Government and the Ministers responsible to take all their actions with intensity so that the two Greek officers return immediately and safely to our homeland and finally end their unauthorized hostage. So now we are going to the specific legislation of the Ministry of Education, the Convention of the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Institute of Pasteur and the Greek Institute of Pasteur, which was signed on 31 July 2017. This contract substantially updates, i.e. replaces the previous contract signed in March 2008 and ratified by Law 3733/2009. These two contracts are a follow-up to the initial Greek-French agreement, which was founded in 1920 by the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur, which is the oldest research institute in our country. Isn't that right, Minister? And the French Institute of Pasteur, founded in Paris in 1888 by the great humanist and doctor Ludovico Pasteur, has to show a huge offer to the development of microbiology and to research on the development of vaccines and serums, today setting up a huge international network of scientific research around the world, including twenty-nine collaborative institutes, scattered across continents. So in view of the history of the Greek Institute of Pasteur and its significant contribution to research and public health, we could only be positive as regards the renewal of its cooperation with the Pasteur Institute and the uninterrupted continuation of its operation. However, there are some elements in the convention - which I will point out - which need further clarification from the relevant Minister, Mr Fotakis, and I mention them in particular: firstly, there is provision for the first time in the new convention that we are currently dominating - Article 2(2) and (3) - the establishment and operation of the Diagnosis and Reference Centres at the Greek Institute of Pasteur, as well as the possibility of operating their services and offices in other cities in the country. But, Minister, the question of staffing is not clear. Who will these departments and offices be responsible for? You have asked yourself about this and the committee, but you have not given an answer. Of course, there is no estimate of the operational costs of the new department, Mr Minister, for which, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, no data have been provided by the relevant Minister. Secondly, there is also provision for the first time - Article 2(2) - the possibility of awarding scholarships to young researchers from the Greek Pasteur Institute. And this is a general, vague and uncoordinated arrangement, as well as this one is not, of course, accompanied by the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, by specific data. So you do not specify, Minister, or who will be given scholarships or, of course, what criteria will be applied, you are not setting the number of scholars and the amount of scholarships. That is the second question. Let's go to third. It is also provided for in the transitional provisions - Article 17 - the obligation of the Greek Institute of Pasteur to draw up within one year - you say - since the signing of this Convention, which I think was made on 31-7-2017, the Agency and the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 19 of Law 4310. Let me remind you, Minister, that in Article 20 of the bill that we voted on last week for the University of Western Attica, you had given another extension - it was the sixth, seventh, I do not remember - to draw up the agencies and internal regulations of the research centres of L.4310 by 31 December. What will happen to the Greek Pasteur Institute? Article 20 or what you're bringing today? Does the Greek Pasteur Institute have to draw up its rules of procedure and organisation by 31 July 2018, as provided for in the Convention, or on 31 October 2018, as provided for in Article 20 of the Act that we voted on last week? I am afraid, of course, that my question will be rhetorical, as most likely you will soon bring another extension, as you have used to in three years. Fourthly, one final comment relates to the temporary five-member board of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, which is defined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Health. And since you are evangelizing, Minister, the guarantee of democratic participation in the Institute's board of directors, you could have anticipated the provisional board of directors, which, not least, exercises all the responsibilities of the board of directors, is also more democratic and not more direct to the board of directors of the two Ministers. These are the points you should see, Mr Minister, and you should give us such clarifications. We as a responsible political party, whatever promotes research and ensures the international cooperation of the Greek research centres and institutes with prominent foreign institutions and universities, such as the French Pasteur Institute, supports it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Mr. Pollack, if I understand correctly, will you cover Mrs. Gerovalis too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u65	Just a minute, Minister, I would like to make an announcement because I thought Mrs Gerovali was coming and I would give you the floor now, so that Members could hear it, if they want to ask you something. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory, fifty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Gerakas (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pollack, you have the floor for five minutes to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that we accept as the Ministry of Health Amendment Nos 1505 and 166, tabled by MPs Papadopoulos Athanasios and Mantas Christos and which Mr Papadopoulos previously supported in his speech. The second amendment I have to support, due to the absence of Mrs Gerovasili, is Amendment No 1506 and a special figure of 167.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u67	The Minister accepted the amendment tabled by Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Mantas. Now we're going to the ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Fotakis must be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. Fotakis must be accepted. It is simply because it concerns the issue of the Ministry of Health, Mr Colleague, that we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Fotakis is the Prime Minister. But if he did not have the agreement of the Ministry of Health, he would not be able to proceed. That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u71	That is what I said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u72	Good. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Fotakis must be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u74	Mrs. Antonio, let's not waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u75	I can give my assent to Mr Fotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u76	It's typical. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u77	Let us not create a matter from the outside. Amendment No 1506, and a special number 167, amends the law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, and that is why Mrs Gerovalis is a speedy one. It is, however, a big issue that exists in public hospitals and which has to do with our choice for two and a half years now, to drive out the contracting care, feeding and cleaning facilities from hospitals and replace them with working contracts with workers working there or hired through tenders that are announced and made under the supervision of the ADP and with mobilisation via ASP. At the moment we have managed to do this in about seventy hospitals from about 30 in the country. A day-to-day battle is actually being fought in this. We have judicial ties, we have a series of problems, but we slowly win this bet. It is a bet that has to do so much in the interests of the workers, who are paid far better than before the contracting workshops and, secondly, there is a very large savings of resources from the hospitals doing this. For example, I will tell you that the "Evangelism" with two hundred eighty cleanliness contracts, which take between 300 and 400 euros a month, saves over 1,000 euros a year. This is an example of what has happened. In many hospitals that started implementing the law of 2016, some of the problems have been created with Commissioners of the Court of Auditors, because, if you remember, we had started doing project contracts in these hospitals, in an attempt to get the staff employed by the contractors before, not to say, "go away, you come". This law, however, fell down in August in the Council of State. We have relegated work contracts now rather than work contracts and converted work contracts into work contracts to cover the hospitals where these tenders were concluded. In the few hospitals that were at the time, a problem has arisen because, when the work contracts were converted into employment contracts, some commissioners had started not to consider the warrants, because they account for a cumulative amount of time of the works contracts. With paragraph 2 of this article and in the case of the Council of State, we consider that pre-service will not be taken into account in the works contracts throughout the 24-month period for contracts of employment in order to complete twenty-four months with the contracts of employment signed. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] With the first article, which is the most substantial, we say: many hospitals now end the period of the first recruitments they had made. We have legislated twice for this. It's a procedure that's controlled by ASPD. The draft declaration controls the AACC. The molecules followed by the legislation are molecules from the ADP. If there's objections, they're avenged there. We actually give the opportunity to those who are currently serving, to be able to submit their papers, to be candidates. It is not certain that they will be calling themselves again, but we cannot in advance exclude them from running a candidate, so that they can continue to work, because it is actually considered a new contract that will be signed. We can't leave the hospitals uncovered. Because - be careful - if these people cannot stand - and we want to call the competitions now - we should stop the process, go to a contractor for some time and when the process is completed, start working contracts again, which we do not want. It's not right and moral for people who work. So Article 1 of the amendment, practically, allows those who serve, to re-approve the new contracts that will be made, without intervening the three-month period that must be out of work. Article 2, as I said at the outset, distinguishes works contracts from works contracts on the basis of and the case-law of the Council of State. That is the amendment. It solves a very big problem. It makes it easier for us to move this process to different hospitals. One last word I'll say and I'll close. It is, in fact, very paradoxical how in two adjoining hospitals, two different judges, two, three days apart, formulate a thinking that is the day by night. I'll call it names. Salvation Hospital: He has launched a competition, ends up with the individuals and the contractor who was before asking for a temporary order not to go any further. There is one reason from the judge, who says that what is being done is in the public interest, the hospital saves money, is in favour of the workers. Dismisses the provisional order, and we move on to recruitment. At the “General” Hospital, next to another department again, the same procedure. The contractor appeals and the judge comes out and says he's undermining the contractor's profit, so I'm accepting the interim order. This thing can't be done, this thing can't be happening. It can't be the day and night of the procedural crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u78	Turn it off, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u79	I will close, Mr President, but I have to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u80	It has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u81	It does. How's he not? Because it's about some people, obviously. There is even worse than that. There is what was done with "Atticon", where people took up duty and worked for two months and came out from a department of the Administrative Court and says practically "secret them".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u82	Well, Mr. Polakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u83	So it's absolute irrationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u84	How many thousands of people are we talking about? How many people are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u85	Calm down in the Chamber. Mr. Kelles, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u86	A question to the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u87	Just a minute, Mr. Kelles. The question whether or not you will be doing it, unless I am happy to leave the Chamber to do it on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u88	We are not letting you go, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u89	First of all, Mr Georgios will take the floor for interrupting him. Immediately after the Minister left - I asked him to stay five minutes - we will be going in turn, whoever wants to ask a precise question from each party. The Minister will answer and move on. So we close with the speaker, Mr Georgada, and then we go in the parliamentary order, and the Minister will be 10 minutes to answer the questions. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this story of the continuing efforts of the Ministry of Health to create a specific model for the preservation and cleanliness of hospitals could be accepted by all of us if we did not regularly have legislative interventions which, apart from the existing legislative framework and exceptionally from any general and specific provision and often counter to court rulings, are constantly creating a specific situation and serving a specific political purpose. I'm getting clear. In 2016, the Ministry referred to in Article 97 of Law No.4368 ‘with the exception of any other general or special law, the central, decentralised and all services of the Ministry of Health, as well as the legal persons governed by public and private law or, where appropriate, a competent body may conclude individual works contracts for the cleaning of the buildings of their responsibility and environment’. That's how the ministry does it. It may be right to want no private companies taking over this work through tenders. However, there are certain rules of the law which speak of dignity, transparency, legitimacy and which must be respected. What's the Minister doing here? It is many times that this issue has come here, sometimes to consider legal expenditure which has already been incurred and to which they refused to pay, to be regarded as warrants, and sometimes because we had court rulings which did not serve this existing situation. Firstly, on the question of what is more economic and qualitative for the real provision of these services, I am not in a position to know it. It is certainly a matter of which we would like the evidence. It matters to the Greek taxpayer. But not to confuse anything. The cost of these people's remuneration - other than wage costs - and all the more so the cost of cleanliness, say, which has to do with consumables. That image I'd like to have. I do not want to question the Minister at the moment, but I would like to have the full picture and not just the cost of wage costs, but overall for the provision of this service. So since this general and specific provision of a new working form has been created, this amendment is now coming - and I think it is unacceptable - and it says, firstly, that the three-month abolition of contracts must be concluded between fixed-term contracts. We are saying that it is time-limited or indefinite, because these two exist. This is a fixed time, whether a project contract or a work contract, and I will say about it. Since then, when it is a certain period of time, there are certain provisions. There is a specific provision in Article 103 of the Constitution, which does not make any distinctions between employment contracts and work contracts - it is, in fact, stated that the same prohibitions apply to work contracts - it says two things. It says that one contract with the other must have a quarterly gap, precisely in order not to create continuous works contracts and then ask each worker to turn it from the courts from time to time into indefinite and, secondly, that those contracts may not exceed twenty-four months. Now the government comes in and says, firstly, that the quarter is being abolished, so we go on and on. The eight months that were the highest conventions, as there should be - and I repeat work and work, clearly says Article 103 in its last eighth paragraph - are being abolished. But we're doing something else. Since they are already close to completing twenty-four months of those who entered in 2016, we come and believe that this work they provided was a project contract, so that we are not considered to have exceeded the twenty-four months of work contracts that are the highest of the law and from now on we are characterising them as labour contracts. In other words, up to now, the twenty-four-four months conventions have termed 'project contracts'. We now come and call them 'working contracts'. Are we doing this, so we can have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u91	The law fell, you're not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u92	I'm sorry, Mr. Polakis, but I want to hear it. I'm absolutely right. We call them 'working contracts'. That's what you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u93	All of you write down your comments and I will give everyone the floor at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u94	We now call them employment contracts so that we can actually not have the twenty-four-four-four months limit, go by the end of 2018, and then create for these people the expectation of permanentisation. This is the whole story, i.e. the expectation of permanentisation in violation of all general and specific provisions of the law. The Presidential Decree of Paulopoulos, in 164/2004, laid these two safeguards, the quarterly gap between the contracts and the twenty-four months, precisely so that we do not have any abuse on the part of the administration in relation to what we call "determined-time contracts". Because the argument is that there is another thing about work contracts and other employment contracts, I am just reading the last paragraph, the eighth paragraph of Article 103 of the Constitution, which says that the prohibitions of this paragraph also apply to those employed under a contract of employment. And those who work under a contract of work have the eight months with the three-month pause and have the twenty-four months. What are we talking about here? That's self-evident. Everyone knows that. That is right, in fact, for some Commissioners - because others dare not - and they deny payment orders, because that is our Constitution. You want to change it? Do you want to completely abolish fixed-term contracts? Let's talk about it all. But our Constitution right now tells these specific things. The House cannot come every three months and be "washed" by means of amendments to any decisions of the Ministry. We cannot come here and forget about it as a parliament. There are people outside who are unemployed. There are people who want one thing, transparency and dignity in it. Whoever is entitled to the fixed term contract, we say 'yes', whoever is entitled to the indefinite term, say 'yes', through transparent procedures. Is it possible now in industrial relations which are currently under way, to come in this completely unambiguous way, too, to create the conditions of permanentization? You know very well that's it. This will be judged in court tomorrow. Every worker, who is the only one who cannot be accused, has the expectation of permanentization and will go to the courts and will say: "I needed the Ministry of Education for four years. I've exceeded twenty-four months of the presidential decree. This was the will of the legislator or "The need for my presence is constant". And it's going to be permanent. But is the one to be permanently qualified by someone else who too could be permanentized, but was he not able to have these contracts? I think, Minister, that this must be over. It has to end. And the constitution and the current framework show us exactly what to do. I do not want to see the House again come a piece of legislation starting with 'with the exception of any general and special provision'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u95	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u96	I shall now conclude, Mr President, and thank you. If we legislate by way of derogation from all general and special provisions, we despise our own role and our presence here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u97	The Minister will write all his remarks and I will give him the floor to answer the whole question in the end. Technical advice I give you. Because the microphones are new technology, they want a lower tone of voice and talk more away from the microphone. I have the impression that the old sounded better, but in any case. Don't talk near the microphone and with a strong voice, because then it's kind of confusing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, it is the turn of the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Javarra, clarification, if you'd like. Place yourself in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u100	There's a place I want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u101	Good. You'll have the floor. We'll go in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u102	Will the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u103	He'll stay to answer specific questions, if there's a question, not your places.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u104	Although I will then say something very quickly, which includes a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u105	Ask him. That's why she's staying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u106	In fact, Minister, you are releasing successive contracts so that they do not need a quarter. If we don't understand well, you can tell us. But that's what I think you're doing. At the same time, this amendment does not apply - that is the question - to the Ministry of Health only, it applies to the entire public administration. Mrs. Gerovali should have been here. It's not. You only supported it for the Ministry of Health, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u107	We can't indulge him because he came to support. Mrs. Gerovali should have been.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u108	I don't indulge him. I am speaking to the House, Mr President, and as a question, this amendment concerns all public administration. You can answer it positively. Therefore, as it concerns all public administration and generally, it is not only about the specific cases that you have told us. How are those out of work protected in this process? You said, for example, that if there is a competition then they will enter the competitive process. And if you put the pre-service as a maximum criterion in the competitive process, you throw them out. So you're mocking not only the contractors with that logic, but also the unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u109	Don't place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u110	I don't place. I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u111	The question was one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u112	My question was specific: How are off-work protected when the competitive process includes this criterion? Minister, this amendment is a pre-election, in our view. That is why you must answer these questions and put yourself in a responsible position as a government. I don't think you guys are enough. I think it should be here, Mr President, and the Minister responsible, because it is all about public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u113	I agree with the second one. Would you like to ask something, Mr. Saridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u114	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u115	Because the JRC will not have a parliamentary representative today, Mr Lambroulis, would you like to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u116	In my dentistry, then I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u117	You'll be placed then. Okay. Minister, take five minutes and answer the two questions, to get Mr. Fotakis to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, Mr. Theocharopoulos, it's about the entire public administration, obviously. The great need for this amendment and the others relates to the part that I have told you. Clear up a few things in your mind, because there is typical and there is essential. Secondly, when we have a service in which a man has worked, we actually say 'you now to re-create, you must have been fired three months'. I'm talking about the part that's about the hospitals. What does Mr Georgantas and the others say to us here to talk about this and not about it in general? Listen to me. First of all, Mr. Georgantas is making a mistake. The Act on Project Contracts was adopted in August 2016 in the Council of State. So what he says doesn't apply. All his reasoning that we then went on with project contracts is not true. Because it was our political choice to send out contractors from hospitals, we immediately legislated that we would launch tenders for dependent labour contracts. And because it refers to articles in the Constitution, etc., we say that the Council of State, which in other phases constantly invokes it, has said that the works contracts are not part-time contracts. He has made this in many of his decisions. So we want the second article of the amendment to remove the argument from a number of Commissioners who do not sign warrants because they are also counting on this story. As of November 2016, there have been competitions under the responsibility of the AACC, under the approval of the AACC. And I answer to you: the pre-service is moleculosis and unemployment is moleculosis. We didn't find any new criteria. We're putting what's happening. So don't play it on me 'how do you protect them from outside'? Because too many of those who work today, outside was. They weren't workers in the old contract workshops. Not everyone came in automatically. Some who had pre-service counted, some who were unemployed counted, some who had many children counted, some who were single - parent families counted. These are the criteria. We don't cut glaukas into Athens. The political substance of the case here and with regard to hospitals is as follows: if this is not the case, if this is not the case, it is practically necessary for the contractors to return to hospitals for some time. This is now the sacred indignation of Mr. Georgioda. And the evidence is overwhelming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u119	For legality, it was my indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u120	When I said save, it's in total, Mr. Georgioda. It's not just wages. It's in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u121	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u122	Of course you can see them. It's published in several media, which you probably don't read. We've given it to you in detail. They just don't play much in the big media, which you probably read, because that picture isn't a good thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u123	I don't read at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u124	I don't know what you're reading. Read it. It's published. We have told them many times and with examples of hospitals how much they save, from Chios to Komotini and from the hospitals of Thessaloniki to Crete. We've given them very detailed. And that's coming to solve this thing. Can I also say something to you, Mr Theocharopoulos, for the rest of the public sector, that if there is any need, which is not seasonal and in which a public service is needed? Why do you know something? You speak and invoke some constitutional provisions as you wish, as if we were a country of regularity. We are a country that has taken seven to eight years of disaster. He's pulled this thing out. There is a restriction on recruitment. You're saying if we could, if we didn't have the recruitment restrictions, we'd save, we'd talk to the Treasury and we'd be proclaiming. This was our choice: permanent places in hospitals for cleanliness. You in the 1990s and 2000s - why can't you play it now as if you fell from Mars yesterday - who you were able to hire, then why did you get everyone out of retirement and bring the contractors in? Then you weren't in the way. And you blame us who now, under these limitations, but with a clear political choice in favour of workers and in favour of the public interest, find this form in order to serve the public interest in hospitals and to save and at the same time to pay the workers better. Are you, colleagues of the New Democracy, or are you PASOK colleagues, in the last few years since the 1990s, who started this, then why did you send them away? Were the contractors more economical? Well, it wasn't. Why, did the hospitals clean up better? I challenge you to go to hospitals, to which they've gone under the working contracts now, to see when it was cleaner, before or now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u125	Good. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u126	Because people honor the bread they get, all those people who have been hired so and left the working middle ages. Let me remind you of Kuneva, and what did she get?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u127	Minister, I will not leave any more time. Leave Kuneva alone. We're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u128	No, I'm not leaving her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u129	Shut up. The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u130	I'm not leaving her. Because what happened to Mrs Kuneva was a reason why we are also legislating today. That's right. Because we are responding to a number of people's demands in certain situations that have been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u131	Time is up. Shut up. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u132	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u133	No, there's no more one minute. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u134	So do not put us indignation of a constitutional check when you have delivered this service to contractors' interests for twenty years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u135	That concludes the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u136	...and we know why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u137	That concludes the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u139	After your location, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you will say what you want. I'll leave you. There's no way, you'll answer and there's a rival to what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u140	Let me answer for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u141	Don't open a rival now. I want to finish the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u142	He mentioned me by name. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u143	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u144	I didn't offend you. Your name I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u145	Mr Polakis, I have told you that, when I am in the Bureau, you will be given the floor after you ask me to give it to you. It's over and over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u146	All right, Mr. President. But I didn't say anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u147	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u148	I am not asking for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u149	For a minute you have the floor, Mr. Theocharopoulos, and we close. The bill is different. I'm not gonna run it here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I am not speaking on personal grounds. I only request one minute and let me reduce time from my speech as a parliamentary representative then. We are, however, discussing this amendment today, and it is the bill. Why did you come up with this amendment, Mr. Ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u151	You've got the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u152	I am not asking for the floor on personal grounds. I request the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u153	Tell me what the personal matter is. What you are saying is the substance of the bill and of the amendment. You'll tell your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u154	Mr President-in-Office, you are bringing such a serious amendment to a bill, which is irrelevant, to a penalty that you are discussing in two hours, as we agreed a short time ago on an issue of this kind. And you said a moment ago that the Constitution is being violated - because that is what you said - and the constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Theocharopoulos, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u156	...for reasons...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u157	We're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u158	Whatever you want, you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u159	That is what you said: the provision of the Constitution is being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Polakis, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u161	According to the beam...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u162	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Theoharopus!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u164	...that can't be tolerated by the Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u165	Please do not write anything about what Mr Theocharopoulos says. Listen, Mr. Theocharopoulos, I am older than you in this House and you must respect me. When you ask for the floor on staff, you will speak on staff rather than place on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u166	I did not ask for the floor on personal grounds. The Rules of Procedure of the House say that, after each Minister, the parliamentary representative is entitled to take the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u167	I'm so sorry. It is not what you say when it is for amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u168	I am not asking for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u169	I gave you the floor on personal grounds. Anyway, you made your location...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u170	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u171	Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u172	...protect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u173	I asked you whether it was personal and you said yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u174	I told you that as a parliamentarian I wanted to speak and take these two minutes away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u175	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u176	Keep the procedure safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u177	We're done. Mr. Polakis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Javarra, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u180	I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u181	The Minister is ahead of us, Mr. Javarra, we have said so. Immediately afterwards, as the first parliamentarian you will speak. Mr. Minister patiently awaits. I asked him three times to go back and take it. Immediately afterwards, you will speak as the first parliamentarian. Minister, I'm giving you 20 minutes because you might want to answer for something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u182	I will be much shorter, Mr President. Let me begin with the amendments. I think the Deputy Minister for Health was convincing and the amendment with a general number of 1507 and a specialist of 108 is accepted. The previous amendment, with a general number 1506 and a special number 167, is also accepted, after the clarifications given by Mr Skourlets. The same applies to the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1505 and a special number of 166, after the presentation by Mr Papadopoulos. All three amendments, two ministerial and one parliamentary, are therefore accepted. Now, I would like to give some answers to the questions raised, starting with the point that the Pasteur Institute has two main objectives. Both of these objectives serve the public interest. The first concerns the implementation of research programmes and activities in the field of biomedical medicine and translation medicine. The second relates to the production of products and the provision of services in the public health sector. Examples of this include the techniques for the diagnosis of infectious diseases, the vaccine unit, which has, with emphasis on rare diseases, as well as the reference centres for treating epidemics with accredited procedures. It is clear that these objectives serve human health to the full. How's this job going on? This work is done by a personal hundred and thirty persons, which currently includes thirty researchers and twenty postdoctors, young scientists. There have been several references to economics, without giving any figures. I'd like to give some numbers and talk about how Pasteur works. I will give some characteristic figures, as the regular budget of Pasteur in 2014 was 1.34 million euros and reached 2.3 million euros in 2017, with a forecast of 2.5 million euros for 2018. In other words, there was a spectacular increase in public spending. Also, the Institute is sponsored annually with 600,000 from the Ministry of Health to support centres of excellence and procedures for the supply of vaccines. It is perhaps the same revenue that went by, perhaps. The Pasteur Institute has considerable own resources, which currently reach EUR 1.78 million. I am quoting these figures because they give the answer to what was set out in the opposition. The question has been raised of the creation of services, offices in other regions, which can serve the purposes of the Pasteur and the question of scholarships has also been raised, which the Institute itself gives. First of all, what is being done with this agreement, which is now being ratified, is that there is the possibility of such offices and, of course, of grants. How will these be covered financially? They will be covered by own revenue. Besides, the services in other regions must do, serve to create own resources. That is why no further evidence has been provided and, therefore, there is no issue with the General Accounting Office of the State, since we are talking about own revenue. Other issues have been raised, such as the regulation of intellectual property rights. That is indeed very serious. They are not being dealt with in this convention, because this issue of intellectual property, as far as the results of scientific research are concerned, should be dealt with in general. One more thing. It has been mentioned what the amount of the grant is. But I think the answer is clear from what I gave you in the ordinary budget. Of course, the rules of the ordinary budget are laid down by the existing legislation, as described in the research law. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It referred to the question of the selection of members of the board of directors, qualifications and all of this. What I wanted to make clear is this: The effort made by this agreement is the model of operation of the Pasteur Institute - which has a peculiarity, since it connects it with the French Pasteur Institute - as far as possible with this convention in the management model of the other research centres, which is supervised by the General Research Secretariat and Technology. There, the selection of members of the board of directors is made by international committees, based on meriting criteria, and so is only the case for some of the members of the board of directors of the Pasteur, since the others are linked to choices made by the French side and the competent and co-sponsored ministers of health and education. The question of the existence of rules of procedure will follow the general rules. Here the problem, which had arisen, in general, was the existence of organograms for research centres. It should be noted that organograms have not existed for twenty years. Now it's happening. In order to have an internal regulation, there must be the organigrams first. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure should be ready by the end of this year and as far as I know, it has already been done. It's almost ready for Pasteur's organogram. On the question of sub-financing, mentioned by Mr Gregorakos, I think he has responded. On the issue of posts, after seven years of total drought in terms of recruitment - not only in Pasteur, but in all research centres - eight posts were taken for the first time last year for researchers and EEPs. In fact, they include a doctor. So I don't think that's about it. I wish - and we are working in this direction - that we also have the possibility of other positions, but that was, for the first time, dealt with for the research centres and Pasteur, as indeed the universities. It has also been mentioned that the Governing Council has changed twice. But that's not right at all. The Paster City Council has only changed once because of its mismanagement for many years and what has been done, because two members during their term of office, from the new management board, have resigned, simply replaced. There was no change in the entire board of directors. I would also like to mention that I fully agree with Mr Lambroulis in relation to the fact that the purpose of the research should be to improve human life and people's needs. However, Mr Lambroulis said - and we hear it many times from the side of the Communist Party of Greece - that an economy with resources and resources is planned, which are not in the hands of the people today. I would like to ask, in my turn, what should be done? In order for any intervention to be planned, should we wait for the day when the resources and resources will come into the hands of the people? And in the meantime, nothing's going on? We are responding to this in the current situation, without, of course, implying that we are blocking wider social emancipation. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Pasteur Institute has a very important role to play. The contract to be ratified will truly release its powers. It will create an administrative model, which will be more effective, which will also help the development of the scientific work, which it is doing. The new Convention generally brings the Pasteur Institute closer to the other research centres. What I, at least, wish is to vote for as a sample that - at least in this case - should not be divided, since I think we all agree with the objectives and understand that this is a step forward. This up-to-date illustration of the activities of Pasteur, which will be done by this convention, I think it will bring things to a much better place than they are today. That is why we are asking for his vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much to the Minister. Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Javara for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law, which in fact validates a convention, which concerns a very important issue, which refers to the name and the symbolic chapter, left behind by a very large researcher, who has helped medical science, without being a doctor. He was the one, who essentially dedicated his life to the service of trying to find the truth, unconditionally, unconditionally, without any dividing lines. Pastor should be the honorable person today. Unfortunately, the government does not allow us to do so. Mr President, we will once again deal with the very important reform, which has brought about its conduct and the way that this government legislates in the parliamentary work. Or better, I would say, the overthrow, which has brought to the parliamentary data of this place, this democracy. Today, once again, we are faced with this government's modus operaandi: it can through specific procedural wickedness, run and destroy, effectively abolish and annul constitutional provisions and the Rules of Procedure of this House. Because by bringing systematic amendments, which legislate very seriously, it succeeds and appears - and this is its legislative wickedness - to avoid control over the constitutionality of these regulations. Of course, she couldn't get away from herself. The Deputy Minister for Health appeared here today to support an amendment which is in keeping with this genetic code, which I have presented to you, to support this particular amendment, which has to do with a specific regulation on relations between the public and the public. In the case of public work Article 103 has laid down a framework which is unsurpassed. This box of what he says? It says that those who are employed in the public sector, because they are servants of the people and express the will of the state, should be persons and officials, who should have specific privileges, which preserve their position and create just a shield of public administration, against any overturns or interference, which are taking place in the troubled, at times of history, our political life. It is precisely this basic provision that paragraph 2 and paragraph 8 of 103 restrict it to only one condition. In other words, they regulate and provide for the possibility, when there are unforeseen and urgent needs, of recruiting staff on the basis of fixed-term private-law contracts. We therefore have an excellent opportunity to recruit people to work with a fixed-term contract in the public sector, in administration when there are unforeseen and urgent needs. It is precisely this constitutional provision that makes it possible to recruit staff under a fixed-term private law contract very specific and very limited time. So today, what's going on? Today the Deputy Minister of Health comes here - who is obviously not interested in all of these things, because they do not touch him - and he says here 'we are a government of the working class and because we want to play the historic role that has been recognised for over a hundred and fifty years in this working class, in the context of a class reconstruction of the state, we come and say that here we are abolishing what is in the Constitution and say that what is worthy of the man who is employed in the public is not to be employed in a project contract, but to a contract of employment.' That is how the ideological and political figures of the party that governs us are appreciated, of course, by assisting another party, and if he has understood how these amendments are acting within the constitutionally defined framework of life of this state. So, what's going on here? We are trying, in reply to the Minister who cannot understand matters other than those he has in mind and who wants to do through this kind of wickedness, to tell him whether we are with the project contract - that is, with the contractors, that is to say, with the interests - or with those working forces, that is, those powers that will once go to heaven. Hey, no, gentlemen! You must understand that here in this Chamber you are obliged to respect the Constitution and the laws. And if there is a President-in-Office decree that you are coming here today and you are mocking - this presidential decree 164/2004, which is the result of scientific work by the current President of the Republic, which you trust him, as we all trust him and recognize him for his scientific merits - you must understand that, before you come to Parliament, you should have read Rule 1 of this Presidential Decree. What does this article say 1, ladies and gentlemen? The regulations of this President-in-Office ensure that the directives given by the Council of Ministers of the European Union are adopted in the specific regulations contained - if not deceived - in the number. Council Directive 70/1999 on the quality of the provision of work on the basis of a fixedterm private law contract. That's the big deal. And you come here today to tell us that this particular dimension, which has the President-in-Office's decree, and which identifies precisely that it has been abused, which had occurred in the area of executive power by recruiting staff, to work for a fixed period with successive fixed-term private contracts, that is to say, this circumvention chosen by the legislator and has regulated it, by not recognising the right to continue with those who do not have the opportunity or have the obligation, to intercede between one and the next fixed-term contract, quarter or for those who are obliged to spend their entire duration in the framework of a private fixed-term contract of employment not to exceed twenty-four months. For all these things, which are the foundations of constitutional, Community and Union, the Deputy Minister for Health is here today to tell us: "Look at seeing, you are with the interests of the New Democracy and we are with the people of work." Hey, stop, ladies and gentlemen. Stop! You are no longer persuasive about all this nonsense you bring us here in order to support legislation. Of course, it is clear that if anyone wants to make a more scientific approach in this way of your parliamentary and political action, it will find out what is at the root of any development of totalitarianism in the history of the regimes. Who's that? It is what has been called - and Mrs Vaaki knows very well - the 'principle of atypical political action' of action which is not bound by institutions but bears responsibility for the desire to implement what is every time the sovereign political will. This is precisely the path of totalitarian regimes that the constitutional and parliamentary rules are trying to fight and uproot against impurities. So you, in the context of this attempt to cancel and overthrow the laws and the principle of legality, because you have a great desire to serve some interests, tradesmen's interests, interests photographically presented with the amendments to this House, just this particular will when it is blocked by a specific judicial decision or by a particular law or by the Constitution itself, claiming and invoking the theory, which the Prime Minister has first formulated in that country, the institutional barrier. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws are not institutional obstacles, they are not an institutional obstacle to the Constitution. You cannot come here and say horses and free verbs just to be accepted without any logic, without any constitutional overlapping and all that you do. That is why we are obliged once again to tell you to stop this dangerous path that you have taken into the rule of the place, but also in the political expression of your ideological nature, because in no favoured country, as Aristotle said, this way of legislative and political behaviour is not tolerated. But I would like to highlight something very much appreciated and very respectful of the role you have taken, the government of this place, where we have arrived. He said yesterday, and yesterday, the President of the ESM, Mr. Reggling, at the interview he gave you, when he said that after August, the cannabis will not be opened, as Mr. Flamburis promised, but after August you are obliged to observe rules. And the rule is this institutional obstacle to the unsatisfactory satisfaction of desire. There's a very interesting mail between Freud and Kelsen in 1921, where from there you could see and recognize yourself in what you're doing. There is no need for power to become the only rhythm, to become the only rule that will force this place to emerge from the crisis. You should finally realize that if we arrived at the point of the totalitarian crisis, we did not get it, because the New Democracy and the PASOK were bad, but why the state since it was founded until at least 2008-2009 was nothing but to satisfy some demands and not to support the entire general interest. That is what you are doing with the amendments. That's what you do with photographic devices. This is what you are doing with all this systematic course that you have to demonstrate within this House and you will remain in history as a monument to anti-constitutional and anti-parliamentary behavior, because you are surrendered to atypical, unconditional satisfaction of what you want to do with your arms naked power and not democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much to Mr Javarra for the reports and for everything and to Mrs Vaki for the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like the floor for some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u188	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor for some clarifications about the other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u189	I believe that Mrs Vaki will speak to us about the political will of the sovereign state. I just wanted to say that who is implementing this programme can tell us history. I will make a very brief clarification of an omission I have already made. After the amendments have been accepted, the ratification title should include the words '... and other provisions'. And in the heir article, which defines the entry into force, the words ‘... unless otherwise specified in individual provisions’ should be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much to the Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor for twelve minutes. We'll have an interesting conversation now with Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I am urged by Mr Javarras to reply. Obviously, the reference to my name is related to my understanding of the philosophy and not to the political space I belong to, because this space embraces the intersectional opposite to what you mentioned. It is therefore a welcoming the theory of the founding of the politician and his reproduction in terms of friend and enemy, in terms of the will of the sovereign but this, Carl Schmitt, is committed to fascism, to the extreme right and not to our political space. You know, Mr Javarra, in our political space, in the left, the theory is bound by values. It is not evaluatively neutral and is not meaningless in terms of a sovereign to whom we grant everything, all rights or in terms of will for power. Our will is for freedom, for social liberation, for solidarity, for class fairness. And our theory is bound by the values of freedom, equality, brotherhood, the trio of the French Revolution, this genuine child of Enlightenment, solidarity. Political theory becomes within these concepts, as our infamous teacher, Cosmas Psychopedis, would say. You said, therefore, that there is no question of your legal education - in the matter of state and public administration. So since we started with philosophical reports, let me. The state is a social relationship. It's the physical condensation of an association of forces between social classes. I'm not saying that. Nikos Pouldzas said that. You said, therefore, that we are characterised by legislative wickedness and parliamentary unsatisfactoryness. I do not understand what parliamentary wickedness and irregularity are about here. For this amendment from the health point of view, the Minister did not come, Mr Paulakis, representing the Ministry of Health and the issues there. What, then, is this terrible irregularity? That we tried to donate the hospitals with personal? In trying to save for the state three-digit numbers of millions of euros from the contractors' exit and from individual labour contracts with workers? How will these needs be served at any quarterly intervals? Not to go to the side of the workers themselves. Because if the state and the public administration were once the spoil, the trophy with a brand mark was placed in the customer relations, the "every village and place in the public administration" unfortunately paid for it very much by the Greek society. Now, unfortunately, we have gone, at the other end, to disposable, recyclable, flexible, disposable workers. It's too hard. We have experienced it, and some in our spaces are judged by zeros with nine months' contracts, for example. Let us therefore see this amendment as a way of treating and healing wounds, particularly in the sensitive area of hospitals and health, from which the contractors left. I consider it a very important success that the workers have signed some contracts from the operational point of view of saving many million euros, but also for the jobs that have been created themselves. It is not only about job creation, it is about being decent for these jobs and not seeing the worker as a recyclable, consumable material. From there on, let the Minister explain the further. I referred to what Mr Paulakis said and about the issue of health. I would like, in order not to blame the contract - it is a real pity - to say a few words about it. In this contract signed by the Greek State with the International Institute of Pasteur on 31 July 2017, another government policy is reflected, the policy for a single area of education, research, technology and innovation with regard to research centres. It is therefore clear that this convention, which is the result of a long negotiation between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Greek Institute of Pasteur, as well as the International Institute of Pasteur, forms part of a reformist effort, a national strategy of the government, in order to establish a new framework for research, technological development and for the interconnection of scientific knowledge and research with society, with a view, among other objectives, to proclaiming to all tones the country's productive reconstruction. The main mission of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, our rapporteur, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, and the Minister, was to prevent infectious diseases through research, education and the provision of services to public health. At the same time, it includes combating other serious diseases such as autoimmunes, neurodegeneratives, neuromusculars and various forms of cancer. The contribution of Pasteur to the production of vaccines for rare diseases is well known, while it is a direct recipient of the instructions to meet the state needs in the supply, production, storage and supply of vaccines. These are services that provide public health, literally save lives. The speculation of pharmaceutical companies is not easy to deal with and prevent rare diseases. We have many recent examples, the drug debate and sinful pharmaceutical companies are being monopolized at this time. So one of the reasons we welcome as the top of this convention is that it will contribute to a renovation of both the medicine and the good of health as a public good. At a time, unfortunately, complete degradation of health as a public good and degeneration, the mutation of the medicine to consumer products or the doctor - and I say it with great grief - to a dealer, as shown by this pile of scandals that come out every day for practices that have also been carried out worldwide by this company and others, of course. However, it also has an important place in the training of young scientists and researchers. Under the previous regime, ratified by the 2008 Convention, it was foreseen that the members of the board of directors of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur were appointed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Health and Development. That's a change. Under the contract, members are now appointed by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministries of Education and Health, Ministries of which as a Non-profit organisation of Private Law is supervised. This is therefore an institutional safeguard as a research centre and for it to be harmonised with recent legislation with recent research legislation, with the law that we adopted in 2016, n.4386. At the same time, this new Convention updates the Institute's operating framework to comply with modern scientific and medical developments to promote public health. At this point I would also like to make a small reference to the establishment of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, which in less than a year is closing the hundreds of years of life in Greece. The first Institute was founded in Paris in 1888. The purpose of the Institute was to study the new science of microbiology, research into the development of vaccines and serums, and of course the application of microbiology to medicine, public health, agriculture and industry. A network of Pasteur Institutes was set up outside France in French colonies, as well as in other countries. The founding of the Greek Institute of Pasteur followed a series of events mainly following the Greek-Turkish war of 1897 and the need that emerged since the beginning of the 20th century for the reorganisation of the Greek army. In 1919 the Greek Pasteur Institute, Sakharov Foundation, was founded by a Royal Decree on April 26th. During the troubled period of its establishment, the institute was called upon to face serious public health problems, such as the typhus and yellow fever. Since then, it has been a reference point for public health and biomedical research in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. It is therefore very important that such an important institute modernises institutions and can ensure its proper functioning again. I think few people will disagree with this, the need for the continuous improvement and support of the Greek Institute of Pasteur and its institutional recognition as a research centre under the supervision of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. I have been closed with the Pasteur Institute, but allow me to make one final speech on political topicality, because it was also put by my colleague, Officer Opposition, but I think another colleague, too. There has been a great deal of talk about this position in the Budget Office too. And too much screaming and noise sounded. We have heard that Caesar's wife is not only being honest, but should also seem fair. Mr Kountakis' predecessor, as far as I know, was appointed through a purely party choice in the same position, and - correct me if I am mistaken - he was a candidate for a New Democracy MP. Mr. Koutedakis is a technocrat with expertise in economic knowledge. He has served in positions of applied economic policy. He's not a political person. He wasn't a candidate for a ballot. Therefore, let us be a little careful when we move the finger and with a lot of hypocrisy in the end we testify to others something that was applied by us. Let us also be a little more careful, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and get out of our country's comitology in August 2018 and not be in jeopardy. And all the evidence goes in that direction. Obviously, it will not be a transition to the Garden of Eden. Obviously, it will not be a transition to paradise of prosperity and prosperity. Yes, Mr. Javara, we will have surveillance. But the Commission and supervision are different. Supervision, however, is the price of our stay in the euro area. And if a government across Europe sent out a message about the architecture and way in which the Eurozone operates, that was us. You have been the prosperous preachers of'maintaining Europe', whatever Europe it is, so that I do not remember others. Those who today want to put the preventive credit line and amplified even, and those who had reached the nadir of bondage with the "forget it Yiannis" and others. This government has sent a message outside another Europe that is not based on the doctrine of austerity and does not have an article of faith on the neoliberal poverty of the peoples. Therefore, yes, supervision is one of the rewards for the country's accession to the core of the Eurozone. How the Eurozone works is equally important, but we have put it on the table and asked for its structure and function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much Mrs Vaki. I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u193	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important bill, a contract ratification for the operation of the Greek Pasteur Institute. There are malfunctions in his organization. It seeks to develop a framework for its more effective operation, to amend procedures concerning the composition and the procedure for the election of its institutions, to deal with management issues, and to ensure regular monitoring of financial management. That is why we have said and said that the proposed contract, which is a product of joint processing with the French, serves these purposes. That's why we vote positively on the bill. It is a bill that moves in the right direction. Of course, we've identified the problems. I do not need to repeat them, the rapporteur has said so. I want to believe that you will see them from now on, so that certain issues can be rectified in the operational process and on the basis of the narrow budgetary limits we currently have as a country. So we have to solve problems while they are being created. In any case, however, we can only say that the Greek Pasteur Foundation is a logic, I would say, which must continue, as far as the work that has begun and is not involved in the work of other specific institutions is concerned. In this draft bill, however, we have, unfortunately, seen two amendments since yesterday's sitting. The word 'unfortunately' relates to the one amendment, the amendment brought by the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the Minister of Health has today come to defend it, but it was only the Ministry of Health, as if the amendment were not the whole of public administration. Here are the provisions which in fact give us reasonable concerns about what you want to do over the next period. You are actually releasing successive contracts. This is not the case in the quarter and, indeed, not only in health, as Mr Paulakis said, but throughout the public administration. And, of course, after twenty-four months, he said that one can directly go through a competitive procedure, but since he has removed the quarter, as long as all these procedures are carried out and since the competitive process is measured as a major factor in the pre-service process. In fact, in our view, this is also the reason why the unemployed and the contractors are being mocked. The contractors are holding them hostages. That is why we say that this is a pre-election arrangement. And you tell the unemployed that they have no room to get into these jobs. You are therefore broadening the bad texts of previous years. That is what you are doing, Mr Polakis, you referred to this amendment a moment ago. What are you doing? You continue the pathogens of a client system and with arguments, in fact. We have told you that this amendment is outside the provisions of the Constitution, apart from the Presidential Decree, which was subsequently circumvented by the New Democracy itself during the five-year period of governance of Karamanlis. The result was then to have a contractor explosion and the country reached the crisis and the explosion, including public spending, without limitation and without merit. That is the problem, because it does not work for the benefit of the public interest, when there is no dignity, when it is not felt by the citizens. What are you guys doing now? You broaden all these poor texts and proceed with a logic that is being circumvented and the very regulation of the Constitution, that of the President-in-Office's decree. In fact, you say 'what to do, we are in a time of crisis, so not to talk to us about the Constitution, we cannot do anything else'. That is what you said in your speech. We are also destroying those predictions that were in place to prevent the public administration from being misused. For this reason, these specific arrangements were provided for in order to prevent the misuse of public administration. The amendment comes into ratification of a contract. We didn't have time to talk about her. It is a serious matter for the entire public administration. It came to ratification of a convention on Pasteur last night, by way of derogation from any general and special provision. Of course, in his position, the Minister referred, instead of answering the questions of counterpopulation, attacking the opposition by saying what she has done. Look, here we cannot talk all the time and not tell the truth. What's the reality? The reality is that today - because you have referred to labour relations - industrial relations have worsened over the past three years, employment relations have reached flexible forms of employment that dominate everywhere, with very low wages, with wages of 300 euros, with fundamentally hostages in many jobs and the private sector, with a situation of despair for citizens. This situation does not only lead to despair for the citizens in our country. There is such evidence throughout Europe, and that is why nationalism is taking the lead, and democratic forces, the progressives, must find a way of reacting to nationalism. How are we gonna find him the way he reacts? We'll find him by giving solutions to these specific problems, not theoretically and vaguely. What have you done? While you are ruling three years, you are speaking - I have heard both the Minister and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - as if now you have received authority, as if this three-year period, all these problems have not increased in industrial relations. Of course, once again the Deputy Minister for Health has spoken to the rule of law in the sense that we cannot stay in these sensible ways, we cannot stick to the decisions that are foreseen when we are in a crisis process. Such a logic has been seen against the Council of State in previous times, in terms of regulations now, which are actually coming to circumvent the Constitution itself. However, these issues are not inconsistent with the general context. Many speakers have spoken and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman for the Parliamentary Budget Office. First - it's not right that the evidence you've said is not correct. The previous composition of the Parliamentary Budget Office was made with a five-member board that was held by all parties. Mr. Lapatsiras was on behalf of SYRIZA. It was Mr Riginos, Mr Maraveyas - I say the names he was - led by Mr Liargova. What has been said before has not been done by means of consensual and conciliation procedures at the time. One was proposed by PASOK, one proposed by SYRIZA, one by DIMAR and the New Democracy. This was Parliament's previous Budget Office. It is in my knowledge - and I will say this in plenary - that Mr Samaras, the previous Prime Minister in 2014, was agitated many times by the criticism made by the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. Mr Liargova's position was at stake in previous years. But no one dared to do what you are doing, to blame an independent authority for all three years for what you have undertaken and, in fact, say to end your term of office to get rid of him. But you did that too. The term is over. Right is when the term of office is over at the Parliament's Budget Office, move on to another head. We have been amazed to see the position of head of an independent state authority, the Parliamentary Budget Office, a government official, the Secretary-General for Budget Policy, Mr Koudaki. This to us is an unambiguous move of control by the independent authority. We don't have to explain why. The responsibilities of the government and the President of the Parliament themselves are enormous, as these positions with a term of office impose a search for wider consensus, not the imposition of government officials by the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. How do you view national understanding, ladies and gentlemen? How can you see it, when the independent authorities are doing so by the government majority of imposing government officials on the head? Let us once again point out to the rulers that the Parliamentary Budget Office is not part of the government. It's an independent authority. That's why he was doing quarterly reports, which said that the average wage is at EUR 393, that with the country's primary surpluses for a five-year period we don't come out of the crisis. Because that is what an independent authority should say. And if you handled it in a more democratic way, you would try to make use of this information for the benefit of the negotiation of our country. That is precisely what is bothering the government, but also the President of Parliament himself, unfortunately, because that is where the proposal and the definition exist. The institutional role should work to strengthen independence and not undermine the independence of the authority. It seems that the government does not tolerate criticism not only from the opposition parties, but also from the independent authorities of the state. That's the reality. And since we talked about exiting the crisis, it has indeed given evidence - and they are in successive reports - that we cannot get out of the crisis when we have for a five-year period of 3.5% primary surpluses with overtaxation. How will these be covered? That is why we are saying that we need to revise these targets to 2%. And since you agree on this, we cannot understand why you disagree that there is no way out of the crisis with these elements that you have signed. There is no way out of the crisis with a constant poverty in the world and with jobs of 400 euros, with which the world cannot live. And there is no way out of the crisis without a substantial restructuring of public debt, which must be done, of course, with a loan, which will allow the country - at loan interest rates logically - to be able to serve its needs and debt. So all of this, which the Budget Office had mentioned to you, an independent authority, in our view, has led you to place a government official in the head, and, indeed, by not accepting the President of the House at the Conference to give the CVs of the rest that were candidates for this position to vote to place the parties responsible. Without the rule of law, without independent authorities, without telling the Greek people the truth about what it takes to get out of the crisis and what progressive reforms are and what changes must be made, we will unfortunately remain in the same economic situation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much to Mr Theocharopoulos and to save time. Parliamentary spokesman from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Panagiotis Ilioopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about an institution, which has indeed produced work over the years. It closes the hundred years, like previous people said. But I have heard the Minister, Mr Polakis, hear Mrs Vaki speak for eight catastrophic years about a change of policy. I didn't know where they were talking about, really if they were living in another country. I guess Mr Paulakis forgets that three out of eight years are ruling, that they continue exactly the same catastrophic policy as the previous ones. We don't know what the profit is, because from the eight years of austerity, cruelty, barbaric, inhumane - and I'm not saying that, you go out and see what people say about these eight years - the only gain was 150 billion more debt. We are not talking about GDP, because GDP is falling, debt is rising, about what proportion of GDP we are talking about, about an unthinkable level, which will never be paid back. We are told of another policy by the Syrians, and they have signed a primary surplus of 3.5% over the coming years. They've basically enslaved our country. It's a surplus that can't come out with this GDP. I am using Mrs Vaki's proposal: 'It will not be based on the doctrine of austerity'. I don't know, really. Do they live in another country? They've come out to see what's going on, how's the world going out? Or do they believe that with the allowances of 300 euros and 400 euros, whenever SYRIZA remembers, can Greek live? They think the Greek is looking for benefits? They've made him - I'm going to use a zetula expression? The Greek wants a job. The Greek does not want to beg each SYRIZA when he will agree to give him an allowance. A lot of things have been happening in the past few days. We had the kidnapping and captivity of two Greek officials who have fallen victim to the intra-Turkish politics, the foreign policy of our country, a policy that is allegedly based on Greek-Turkish friendship. Of course, there can be no Greek-Turkish friendship under any circumstances. We reject this as Golden Dawn. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement because the only ones who reacted to this so-called Greek kiss was Golden Dawn and was found on the street the other day to call with all the power it has that we are against all this game, which is played against our country. There a Turkish flag was burned, the one with the half-life, the hate, which is held by those who are responsible for so many years for the deaths of our compatriots. Turkey's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has issued a communication seeking to interfere in the interior of our country and calls for the arrest of the flag burners. We also had other comic-tracting events, which are tragic, actually. Yesterday, in a secret committee which cannot be seen today, nor can we Members of Parliament see, in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, a briefing by Minister Kotzia. So there, SYRIZA had the fabulous idea of sending a Turkish agent to send a Member, which we do not call.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u196	Mr Colleague, please don't make these designations. I think we solved it yesterday in committee. A little softer designations for colleagues who have sworn to the Constitution and who are Greek nationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I do not want to hear this talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u198	Please, avoid characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u199	It's not my designation. I am using the designation of the President of Turkey, Erdogan, who said "we have four of our people in the Greek Parliament". No one came out of these four. Erdogan may have meant me or another MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u200	He meant his people in the religion, but they're Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u201	Now if you justify Erdogan and you know what he meant, all right, you might be right. So we have seen it otherwise, that 'we have four of our people in the House'. Anyway, SYRIZA has a hundred forty-five MPs. He could send someone else and not send any of the people that Erdogan, I repeat, described his own. So, continuing with this in-house policy, all SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence will only achieve is to take blows from everywhere. The more they see us that way, the more they see us endearing, the more their provocative, and the more their demands will grow. You see that now two Greeks have been arrested, basically - and I wish I could come out of a liar - to exchange them with the eight. Erdogan has problems within him and will try, increasing tension in the Aegean, essentially to win some things. On the other hand, we have other, northern neighbours, a state of education whose Prime Minister allegedly wanted to find them with the Greek Government. Yesterday he told us that, as he will look at his constitution, we should also look at the change of our constitution. He had such a nerve! They've come to dismantle until the Skopje. And I repeat, this state of education, which consists of four different - perhaps more - ethnic minorities, threatens us and says that we should also look at the change of our constitution. So Zafe said what Golden Dawn says from day one. We did, but, of course, when the Golden Dawn says it is bad. So he said: “And to change our Constitution, it is a paper. We can then change it again." People work for us properly. We don't have anyone to answer them. We don't have a Foreign Minister. We have a man who makes some trips from here and there for public relations, but actually produces nothing from foreign policy. And we've come to the point of being asked by the Skopje to change our constitution. The Greek-Turkish ones said they'd be intensified every day. You saw that the Turks are embling us ships, kidnapping us military, and we can't answer anything. We have another issue that SYRIZA will probably bring from what we see. Today he's taken great proportions. They are illegal Greekizations of more than eight hundred thousand foreigners. And I connect all this, because these foreigners are a fifth pole inside our country. They've come illegally, no matter how much you baptize them legally. Whatever you do, even the Greek citizenship to give them, these people have entered our homeland illegally. Greece cannot legally accept them. It would be suicide for our homeland. It was legally accepted that more than eight hundred thousand illegal immigrants enter. This number, the eight hundred thousand, is the ones you consider legitimate. Of course, the numbers are two and three million, according to the Statistical Office. They are eight hundred thousand, who will surely return you to any election campaign in the next time this favor you will do to them. Citizenship, which so far we know is based on blood, the origin of the Greeks, will now be based on twenty very easy questions, as you describe them as - you say, there will be no problem with illegal immigrants - giving them citizenship. This in itself - and so I will close - is the most tragic thing you can do, the most criminal you can do, that is, eight hundred thousand illegal immigrants making them Greek. You have no right to alter the Greek population. No one has given you that authority. You're illegal, you're criminalizing our patronage. Take care of yourself, because you're opening the ace of Haleus. With all this, you think feeding crocodile will be the last to eat you. He won't eat you last. Feeding the crocodile, feeding every one who is overseeing our homeland and actually operating at the expense of our patronage, you are criminalized. All this isn't just us. You'll pay for it, too. The coming times are very difficult. Look at that. If you cannot - we say in every bill - legislate in favour of the patronage, do not legislate at all. But fornicating against our country and against the generations that come against our children will not allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much to my colleague from the Golden Dawn. I would ask Mr Ioannis Saridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Association, to speak. You have the floor for twelve minutes, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of recent developments with the illegal detention of Greek soldiers in high security prisons in Turkey, how they were captured and brought to Turkish justice, in the shadow of what happened yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, of what was wrongly taken to the press by colleagues who participated in the yesterday's briefing of the Foreign Minister's doors on issues relating to our national challenges, we are today debating the ratification of a convention on the functioning of the Greek Institute of Pasteur. Ladies and gentlemen, there are issues that go beyond a government's horizon. There are things which are not solved by a decision which is not solved by a provision of legislation which is not solved by a sanction like the one we are discussing here today. These are national issues too. And if Pasteur was looking for the truth in every move, he was anxiously seeking it, we here in the Greek Parliament, in the House, are trying to hide the truths under the carpet, perhaps because we cannot handle them ourselves, perhaps because the people themselves can't. I think it is a great hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to wonder here in this House where the Turk will finally take it. The view that this is a dangerous illusion is now substantiated by the refusal to recognise and call Turkey's aggressive intentions in their real name. Turkey wants to grab. What can we not understand in this Chamber of the Greek Parliament? Anyone who claims the opposite should be able to prove with arguments that, in my assessment, with the facts that have happened, cannot prove it. Three events within less than a month and a half, three war acts were the ones that the Turks did against Greece. I therefore find it unacceptable that it has not been responded properly, responsibly and clearly, to the question of what Greece can and should do against Turkish aggressive provocation. The House is still looking for answers, but it is already known to our locusts in Evros. I personally chose to take their own approach yesterday to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I am anxious to give them an understanding that we must finally recognize these intentions and move in hand. I consider it important to once again state the position of the Centro Association for the immediate recommendation of the Council of Political Heads, for information on all national issues, because we consider it necessary to create a picture of unity. Even if we disagree on many other things, in addition to any countermeasures we can take against Turkey, this is the picture that could itself retain aggressive Turkish provocation. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs entitled 'Creating a Convention for the Functioning of the Greek Institute of Pasteur'. The agreement was signed in the summer of 2017 between the Greek state and the Greek Institute of Pasteur. I would like to share with you this fact on the basis of some of the considerations of honor, essentially the course of the Greek Institute of Pasteur. This draft law comes almost a century after the establishment of the Greek Institute of Pasteur, a century where it acts and offers decisively to Greek society, in an effort to improve public health. The first Pasteur Institute was founded in Paris in 1888. The purpose we all know about him: to enable him to study new sciences, microbiology and applications in medicine, public health, agriculture. A network of Pasteurs has been set up throughout the world throughout the world, but mostly in French colonies. Nearly a century ago the Greek Institute of Pasteur was created. In 1911 it was proposed that the French Government be created and so efforts to create and complete it began. Then there was a proposal to the then Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Venizelos, in 1912. Mr Venizelos supported the establishment of the Institute in the context of social policy on public health, but as well as in the context of the tightening of bilateral relations between Greece and France in his efforts to find allies. But it will be long since then until the French military plan is fruitful. The Greek Pasteur Institute was created to deal with the serious problems relating to public health in our country at the time. Today it is internationally recognised for its basic and translational research in too many branches, immunology, neurosciences, etc. It is an international biomedical research centre with a social mission. The Centro Association has often stressed that investment in education, scientific research, is the one that gives greater added value to the place. The Hellenic Institute of Pasteur with its important scientific action and its social offer confirms the position of the Union of Centres and the adoption, for its part, of this ratification. I now need some time for the two ministerial amendments which have been tabled today. On Amendment No 1506/167, I would like to start with an expression which we in the Centro Association have made too many times. The expression is: 'Civil relations'. It could be translated otherwise: 'Work hostage'. They're two things intertwined. This amendment therefore seeks to circumvent the relevant decisions of the Council of Europe and the case-law of international courts concerning fixed-term private-law contracts and their possibility to renew them for up to twenty-four months. This amendment is an attempt by the government to overcome the legal obstacles created by its attempt to renew over the twenty-four months consecutive fixed-term contracts. The problem with this amendment - and we all recognise it - is that the Greek Government has intelligently brought the Minister for Health to support it, and it is an amendment that concerns the entire public administration. I say 'intelligently brought the Minister of Health', because as the Minister of Health put the problem in his own Ministry, he is not of the same importance as all the public administration, but has been secretly introduced into an irrelevant bill. We didn't have the time to get her evaluated last night. We did not have time to get in touch with people to assess it so that no reactions are created and this amendment is made public. Its main objective, therefore, is the maintenance of the contractors to hostage, even in view of the pre-election period, with the hope of further renewal of that contract and the bypassing of the maximum 24-month period. Will you tell me what? Are we going to leave the public sector to function in specialties, which are actually imposed on them? Are we going to change things? We're gonna kick people out in such a time? That's where you step, ladies and gentlemen. There you are. You see people, you call on the problem of work that there is, to renew contracts, but taking out contracts, not allowing other people out there to claim their will and their right to work. So, although we could disagree on the way you are thinking, we will be in a'resident' position on this amendment because, on the one hand, we understand the anguish of these people, who are responsible for all your governments - and your own governments - but, because you are running three years and you have not been able to resolve this particular issue, which is a big problem - but on the other hand, you are not entitled to those who want to work, to those who want to apply for a job tomorrow. That is why we call it'residents' in this particular amendment. Now I shall refer to Amendment No 1507/168. The aim of this amendment is to ensure the movement of all primary and secondary public schools, since the competitive processes - in accordance with the explanatory memorandum - are horrific. The Centro Association will support this amendment and will say 'yes'. We hope that no further extension of the deadline will be needed and that the different bodies will be able to coordinate. The Centro Association therefore votes 'yes' in the Clearing of the bill'residents' in Amendment No 1506/167, and 'yes' in Amendment No 1507/168. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much Mr Saridis. We shall now proceed to secondary education. Mr. Kelles has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President, I will not go far. We are once again coming to a bill, which, in fact, concerns the ratification of an international convention with the National Pasteur Foundation only, which is why we should not discuss it. For the bill, we've been placed. We agree and have already said that the bill could have been more complete and have more details. However, I shall come and refer to the amendments, Mr President. I shall start with the parliamentary amendment, number 1505/166. I read a little about what this amendment says. It shall be entitled ‘Repeal of age restrictions on the taking up of a doctor's ESS’. Specifically, the limit of fifty years for the degree of curator II, of fifty five years for the degree of caretaker I and of sixty years for the degree of Director. Mr President, it is at least challenging. We have voted as a parliament in the past two years not to have these limits for barren areas, for Type I regions, because of lack of interest. It is at least provocative, if not unacceptable, that the government should come today and accept such a parliamentary amendment, that the age limits should be abolished. Why should a doctor of sixty-five years old go to curator II? Am I asking you? Does he have any reason to do this to retire at sixty-seven? It's provocative, and on the other hand, they say we have 18,000 doctors abroad. What are the motives for these doctors to return to Greece, Mr President? Unfortunately, it's a pure anti-incentive. It's a shame. We are firmly opposed to this amendment and say 'no'. I come to the ministerial amendment, which concerns the abolition of the three-month blockade of private law contracts. I have heard Mr Polakis here defending workers in hospitals. And we are with them, and of course we are defending them. He says that it is the contract of twenty-four months and that if they do not take them they should resort to the contractors. And I ask naively. First of all, as regards these fixedterm contracts, each Ministry knows exactly when the entry into force of the contract is and when the end is. Why has it not given rise to these positions which expire over a reasonable period of time by mobilising the unemployment card? Who says that to? Of course we with the workers are, Mr President, but is it possible at a time when unemployment is high - officially the day before yesterday - we have 20.9% - to have outward children unemployed, graduates, graduates and graduates, wanting to find a job and we have to renew the contract? Because, of course, the purpose of the government is not to renew the contract, it is not a question of not returning to work to the cleanliness of hospitals. That's not the purpose. First of all, this contract is not limited to the Ministry of Health alone. It concerns all the public sector, regardless of whether Mr Paulakis has appeared here and not Mrs Gerovas. These contracts concern the entire public sector. The purpose of the government, of course, of not having a quarter of a gap between the extension and the previous convention, is to open up the 'window' of simulation and give hope to this world to run in court. We are firmly opposed to this amendment. I come to the last amendment by Mr Skourletis - I have heard before Mr Skourletis - about the transfer of pupils. Mr. Skourletis is right, it's not the Ministry's responsibility. They are, however, themselves and the regional authorities themselves, as he said, few, who do the same thing on several occasions. As this is not for the first time, it is for the first time and because, of course, if this amendment is not passed by the students, which we certainly do not want, we shall vote in this extension of the exceptional provisions for one last time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Gregos has the floor from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. We have again seen amendments, inappropriate amendments. Fortunately, there were not too many of them, I can't say there were many of them. But they were inappropriate and late, as you used to. Of course, SYRIZA's parliamentary amendments are always accepted, but if the Golden Dawn Parliamentary amendment is tabled as fair as it is, and will not be, totally democratic and constitutional, to be accepted by any Minister! That's how this House works. We also heard a great joke about respect for the Constitution and the laws. Really, really big joke! We have experienced this very well, and with this government and with the previous one. We have also seen appointments to dependent independent authorities. And this is a very big joke, too. As a joke it has become this government, which continues to move with a firm negative sign from finance to national issues. As I said on national issues, I hear that there is some kind of embargo on Turkey's products. Of course, we agree with this ban and we could extend a sanction to Turkey. That is, first of all, to call on the Greek citizens not to step on their feet in Turkey and, of course, to extend this to European citizens too. With a directive on this to say that Turkey is a 'terrorist' state, no European citizen, no Greek citizen should step on his feet in Turkey, not leave a single euro, nothing at all, because this money becomes weapons and bullets against us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for two minutes. You want to go to the microphone next door, why do I see this green? He's not blushing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u209	If it's the red rule, what can we say? I would just like for a minute, Mr President, to refer to Amendment No 1506/167. For the bill, I think we've been through most of it. We'll be positive. Just because we have listened to Mr Polakis in a light of how important this amendment to private-law workers is and referred to his sector, to the operation of hospitals, although this amendment relates to the entire public sector, my question is: if this amendment were to be as important as Mr Paulakis told us, why is it to be on the eve of an unrelated bill, as an amendment to the bill for the Pasteur Institute? Unless it has a specific notion of 'pasteurisation' of the expectations of workers for an indefinite period. Why so important, in the opinion of Mr Polakis, an amendment does not come to a bill, we should normally discuss it, we should put all the options at the table and we should choose the best solution? I think that it is not because it believes it so much, as it was saying, but more so to hide it, that such an amendment, which concerns a lot of people, should be rejected in order to circumvent normal procedures. In the bill we'll be positive, Minister. After all, we have also discussed this in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. We shall also vote for the amendment on the transfer of pupils, again saying that these extensions and all these procedures at some point will have to be stopped and planned. And we will also be negative in the other, the parliamentary amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Black. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece and F Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I have also asked in my protagonists to say a few words about the amendments. As far as the Ministerial Amendment is concerned, therefore, the number 1507/168, which relates to the extension for the transport of pupils, the re-expansion, first of all, I say that this is the most important time - it has been said in the debate - that such an extension is coming. For three years, if I'm not mistaken, we're constantly going on extensions. You do not give the solution essential to the problem. That is the first point. Secondly, we have heard from the Minister that he plans electronically to deal with this issue, etc. When? All right, given or proposed by means of the amendment, the four-month extension. This summer will be over. So by then the whole system will be ready? Of course they must continue. Someone doesn't notice. Such services should continue to be provided to children, students to move them from villages to their schools, etc. We will therefore vote'residents' in this amendment. As far as the parliamentary amendment on the abolition of age restrictions is concerned, we agree that there should be no discrimination on the recruitment of doctors in public health units, by applying different criteria to age limits. For example, it is on the criterion that subsidiary doctors working in this employment relationship should not be prevented for years and above age limits of the law in order to claim permanent status in the public system. The main problem, however, is, in our view, the present government itself, with which the recruitment of doctors with a permanent employment relationship is minimal and is not enough to replace even the retired doctors. At the same time, the Government did not recruit permanent doctors to such a number that they did not reach and do not reach those whose age limits were laid down by the law and in order to implement these limits, in essence. For example, the qualified doctors and dentists of thirty, forty or fifty years have been exhausted and the solution is being sought for specialist doctors, by extension, of fifty or more years of age. The equal treatment of doctors invoked by the amendment, in essence, Mr President, is words of air and without content, in the context of the policy of cuts and non-invoicing. And this measure will not change the situation in public hospitals and primary health care services, since there are no permanent and full-time staff employed by doctors in order to meet the needs. However, we will be voting in favour of this amendment. I should like to close by the third amendment, the second in essence ministerial, number 1506/167, supported by the Deputy Minister for Health. We will not vote against it. But look. It is the result of the pressure exerted by workers, by doctors, by the federation of hospital doctors against the decisions taken by the Court of Auditors periodically. Of course, people are going to be served, a group of workers, as they go into the amendment. But the main thing, in our opinion, is that this amendment also helps, in fact, to perpetuate or consolidate flexible forms of work, namely work contracts, etc., to the detriment of the worker's stable and permanent work, and to the public health system, hospitals or primary health care. What we are claiming - and in this direction we are fighting and highlighting issues in the health sector too - are recruitment with permanent staff, with permanent and stable employment, ensuring all their working and insurance rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. It closes the debate on a bill that is ratification of a contract for an important institution, a research institute, as we have all decided and agreed here. I believe that Minister Fotakis has given the explanations to the questions put by some. So there is no reason not to vote on a contract which rationalises and facilitates and strengthens the operation and activities of an institute of great importance. We all admitted it. I will only say a few words about the amendment which the Deputy Minister for Health defended here, Mr Paulakis. We could have had a whole debate - and we have done it many times in this Chamber - on what was happening and the period before the crisis and the period in the crisis with the employment relationships of workers and contractors. That this government is coming to fix...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u214	Not to be amended, though. Normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u215	Don't interrupt me, because you're interrupting my thoughts too. Is this government coming to correct, taking class? Yes, observing classics, having proved numerously that contractors cost the public institutions too much. And that was a class partition from the side of some. I will, however, stay on just one thing which has been heard here, and I am glad that it has been heard, because it was for the first time an indirect, even political responsibility. It was heard from the New Democracy side that until 2009 this was the new Greek state - from its founding apparently until 2009 - so we should not do this from now on. I mean, he's getting warmed up, all the workers pay for it! This crisis is generally a matter of vagueness. Since 2009, the workers will pay for it! Things have changed. What has not been done for too many years and which has led to the crisis must be named, taken on responsibility - that is why we have been discussing it lately - and not again. And this state - which, as Mrs Vaki said, is a field of class controversy, of social controversy - should be able to support first of all those who are the weakest and most importantly the public interest. Because, yes, contractors in hospitals or elsewhere do not defend the public interest. And one last: it is common to what hostage the workers have been for decades. And let the New Democracy not now come to us about constitutionality and non-constitutionality. And I'm not just talking about hospitals. I am talking about public bodies who had standing needs, and these fixed needs were covered by workers' hostages, which had to be renewed every time either by means of contractors or anything like that. And all this comes to our time. These people are not customers, as they were treated. They're working. And let us get away from this culture of customer relations and the supposed fight against unemployment. How is unemployment being combated, ladies and gentlemen? I'm taking out some unemployed people and resetting some people and doing this thing? That's how customer relations are being made. People who work, who meet needs, must also have guaranteed industrial relations. I therefore propose that the convention to be ratified should first be passed today and, secondly, the amendments, which make out of insecurity people and not customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much to Mrs Readstopoulou. I shall make two announcements to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Also, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and with Article n. 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of Ministers", as in force on 06-03-2018: Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is finalised: 'Convention on the operation of the Greek Institute and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u225	The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Convention on the operation of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u234	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted by a general number of 1506 and a specialist of 167 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u243	The amendment, by a general number 1506 and a special 167, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted by a general number of 1507 and a specialist of 168 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u252	Therefore, Amendment No 1507 and a special 168 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the amendment be accepted by a general number 1505 and a specialist of 166 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u261	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1505 and a special 166 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u270	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs "Convention on the operation of the Hellenic Institute of Pasteur and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u274	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u279	The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the "Creation of a Convention for the operation of the Greek Institute of Pasteur and other provisions" was therefore accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u281	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-07-S1-commons.u282	With the agreement of the House at 14.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 8 March 2018 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, according to the special agenda to be distributed.
