ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-9-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 20 September 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Consolidation of the Donation Convention between the Foundation of the "Food Benefits of the Foundation S. Niarchos" and the Greek State on the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the Department on Thursday 27 September 2018. QUESTIONS (Rules 29(1) and 130(8) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 59/24-9-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Attica Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled ‘Special arrangement for the students of the affected areas from the fire of 23 July 2018’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 55/20-9-2018 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lacks of teachers in the Dodecanese with the beginning of the school year". 3. The Question No 58/24-9-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntagakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "For not paying compensation for the dismissal of the Ordinary Educationians of the OAED and their continued working hostage." 4. The Question No 56/20-9-2018 by MP B'Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr Aristides Fokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Application for compensation of 750 million from the company “Greek Chrysos” to the Greek State". 5. The Question No 60/24-9-2018 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health, on "Is vaccination mandatory or not"? 6. The Question No 50/17-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Anomalies of violence were carried out by EL.AS. in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Ambassadors' agreement." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 51/18-9-2018 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Do not close any section, sector or speciality of the ESA". 8. The Question No 43/13-9-2018 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 9. The Question No 33/5-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Was there any US involvement in the skeptical issue? " I would like to make some announcements before we move on to the two topical questions that will be discussed at this evening's sitting. The Ministers for Health, Finance, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Ministers of Health and Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted a draft law on 24 September 2018: “Constitution of a Donation Contract between the Joint Benefit Foundation “ALEXANDROS S. SANS”, of the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (O.K.)”. and the Greek State and Other Provisions." The Ministers of Tourism, Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Migration Policy submitted on 24 September 2018 a draft law: "State the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism on the Silk Road". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015).’ Finally, the alleged seeks a two-day foreign leave for personal reasons. The Department approves?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u2	The Department therefore approved the requested authorisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with the first, with the number 54/19-9-2018, a timely question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Seven hundred and fifty million (750.000) euros, the “account” of Mr. Tsipras’ incompetence.” The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Stathakis, will answer. Mr. Screka, you have two minutes at your disposal for protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's topical question is about an important sector, which contributes greatly to the Greek economy and concerns the mining industry. The turnover of the mining industry in Greece in 2014, Minister, was estimated at 2.3 billion a year. The jobs that are based on the mining industry, taking account of the extraction of lignite, without which we could not produce electricity, from lignite, reach the hundreds of eighteen thousand. In the last few years, unfortunately, the Greeks have been witnessing some, in our view, impatient government manipulations towards the most inventive and major investment in the mining sector that has been taking place in our country over recent years and is about investing in Halkidiki Skouries. After two and a half years of delay, you made a few months ago a solution to a number of disputes by arbitration, which, unfortunately, for the Greek State ended up at his expense, in relation to the objections you had put forward. The point is, however, that the publications of the 'rutina' licences, as they refer to the publications, have been delayed and the result of the latter is the ex-judicial request of the investor, which calls for the immediate compliance of the Greek State with the obligations arising out of the contract and, at the same time, calls for about 770 million euros to be paid for the delay in issuing the licences for the last three years. So I ask, Minister: why have the permits not been issued by you, so that the Greek State is today threatened with paying hundreds of millions of euros to the investor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u6	I think it needs to be cleared out immediately from the outset what the risk is, what the investment is and what the contractual requirements of the public and company have been, which have resulted in arbitration. The investment concerns three pieces, Olympiada, Skouria and the vertical production of clean metals. It's a single investment project. The company had not convinced the State of its capacity and of its ability to verticalise the investment, and this was the subject of arbitration, whether or not, i.e. whether the company fulfils its contractual obligations vis-à-vis the contract, which it speaks clearly about the verticalisation of its activities. The arbitration decided that there were delays on the part of the company as well as technical deficiencies but did not justify the termination of the contract on the part of the State. That's the right to insinuate. At the same time, he recognised for the benefit of the public that verticaling is an integral part of the investment project, and therefore the public is well aware of it, so that there is a clear timetable for the implementation of this project. Under these conditions, I think the arbitration has come to an end. Let me remind you now of the second part, which is what investments are and what the operation of the company to date is. The Ministry has fully licensed and operates the Olympiad mine. The last permits, as you know, were issued a year ago. It is fully operational and the necessary investments have been made. Therefore, one part of the investment is operating normally, as has also recently been granted authorisations for the ‘Madem Lakko’. On the morning of the arbitration, a dialogue was initiated between the company and the Ministry, which concerned how, on the basis of the ruling of arbitration in which we are strictly moving and as a ministry, we could speed up and come to an agreement with the company, with regard to a number of measurable commitments on the part of the company, in order to reach an agreement. In the midst of this dialogue, the company proceeded to an extrajudicial court. He did not appeal to justice. What we are talking about is an extrajudicial, which the company considers because of the delay in certain permits - I repeat that Skouries are directly linked to the verticalisation and completion of the investment project - it has forsaken profits. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] First, it's out-of-date, and I don't even know if I'm gonna answer it. I have consulted the Legal Board of the State. I do not think it is something that is binding or legal or which produces legal results. This must be clear, so that there is no impression that at the moment a legal requirement has been opened to the Greek public. It's clear that it's an extrajudicial. As you know, the extrajudicial can answer it or the RIS may not answer it at all. However, it does not have legal consequences. So it's a move the company made and will be judged on it, but it doesn't produce...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u7	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u8	I'm closing, Mr. President. So our position remains the same. We are continuing the dialogue and I think that, in the context of the agreement and fair dialogue, mutually acceptable solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr Skreka, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u10	Minister, if I may, unfortunately, at a time when your government is blocking you, it is blocking the development of investment, and in this way it is depriving the state of income, at the same time I have to tell you that the free professionals are sinking and sinking under the tragic taxes that you have imposed on them. Unfortunately, growth and hope must tell you that they do not come either through party ideas or through strangles. It is incomprehensible today, Minister, that the Greeks should become poor when Greece has a treasure of mineral wealth, which the current government unfortunately refuses to use in terms of sustainability, sustainability and, of course, environmental protection. Here you put a dilemma, which a man who thinks rationally cannot really understand. The investor comes and says to your Government, the Greek state and the Greek State "please give me the permissions you are delaying to complete the investment that is a vertically integrated investment that will produce final products" and you come and say "no, we do not give you the permission to complete the investment, prove us that you want to make the investment". The question is very simple: why don't you give the permits, as the contract provides, in the final analysis, in order to complete the investment, spend another half billion euros, work at least a thousand additional workers during the construction phase and create at least seven hundred permanent jobs in the coming years? And if the result produced is not what is provided for in the contract signed by you as government and he has accepted as an investor, come and ask for the change. Maybe you should put sentences on him, tell him to correct the final result, but anyway, this investment will work. So you understand that "whoever doesn't want to ferment ten days is sifting." You, Minister, do not want this investment to go ahead. The question is specific. This investment, as I would remind you, has been judged eighteen times by the S.H.E. There's an arbitration that says the investor doesn't have any unconventional behaviour. It is an investment from which in the coming years the Greek state expects many billions of revenues on taxes and levies. Thousands of workers today are working there and tomorrow their position is at stake, if this investment is not completed, and they are afraid of their jobs. This is where you have some answers. Firstly, what action are you going to take in this case - for which you say that it has no interest - is this extrajudicial, which, unfortunately, is a warning? Of course, we hope in no way that the Greek State will have to pay a single euro to an investor and an investment that it should have had billions of revenues. He mustn't pay on top of the investor. So, in order to avoid a possibility of paying the Greek State even a euro, what do you intend as the Minister responsible to do to prevent that? Will you be responsible, Minister, personally? Do you take the political responsibility, since in future there can be even a slight, indifferently, chance that the Greek State will pay even a euro for that investor? Secondly, is it true or not that you do not go ahead with issuing the required permits because you are being drawn up by some of your party organisations, who have unfortunately lured a particular audience in this area that now sees the truth? That is why you cannot go against those who lifted the banner at the time of the reaction and issue these permits. So answer us if it is a matter of a party that you are blocking this investment. Finally, how do you think, Minister, that growth can come and stop pooring the Greek people and the middle class, stopping people from leaving abroad to have a better life, when you currently have the biggest investment in the mining industry and the metallurgy industry in the country are blocking it - I'm sorry to say it - with allegations and excuses that have no basis at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u12	The fact that there are different views about the investment is known, but not only are they running the SYRIZA, they run the New Democracy. Ask your local MP to refer to Mrs Bakoyannis' statements and many other statements. So I wonder why you're partying this whole thing up. I think the reality of profits and losses for the Greek public is as follows. You will agree with me that if the investment is limited to mining and exporting the raw material abroad, the benefits for the Greek State and on the basis of payments, the Royalties that they pay on the basis of the current decision are virtually zero. Some taxes are being produced. But, as you can see, the benefits are zero, as the great benefit for the Greek economy will be verticalization, which will add the percentage points. 80% is the verticalation. I therefore consider that there is no side that would not agree, because the great benefits arise from this. From there on, it makes sense for the public to try to shape the conditions for this to take place with certainty. Secondly, given this, because the benefits of the Greek State arise from this, it is a little doubtful that your argument for the foreshadowed gains from some delays of the company for new investments it has not made. I mean, foregone gains for investments he hasn't made! If he had invested and he was stalled, I'd understand. With the same argument on the same basis as the State, since it has not been covered for vertical integration, it could raise a matter of escaped profits, because we have a dramatic delay in technical adequacy and technical studies and the completion of the investment, which, in your statement, would put an issue of escaped profits for the Greek State. So that is not the issue, in our view, in this respect. In our view, the issue at issue, and that is why we went to arbitration, was precisely to clarify the respect of all its obligations and the effort to maximise the public interest in this history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next question, I should like to read the questions that will not be discussed. We will not discuss the third with No 50/17-9-2018 the current question of the MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Ancillary violence was carried out by EL.AS. in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Ambassadors' agreement." The following three questions will not be discussed because of the impediment of the competent ministers. For all three questions, the reason is the workload. The fourth question by No. 51/18-9-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Do not close any section, sector or speciality, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The fifth will not be discussed under No 43/13-9-2018, a timely question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) of Amphisia", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Nor will the sixth question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "There has been a US involvement in the dark question?", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marcos Bolaris. For all the above, there is also a letter on the impediments from the Secretariat of the Government. We are going to the last timely question about this evening's meeting, which will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Christos Spirtzis. It is the second question by No. 52/19-9-18 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject "The risk of Elias staying outside the national motorway network, based on the Government's insights on the multipathous Patras - Tower road". Mr. Kutsuko, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. We made a black eye to see you, Minister. From February 8, you have to appear in the House to answer my questions in relation to the long road Patras - Tower. On 17 April, when you had not answered a written question, you sent Mr Mavragani and then, when Parliament returned in September, on 13 September, you declared that on 18 September also government obligations. We can forgive these, in any case, we have forgiven you more. But what I have to support, Minister, is that you excluded us from the meeting that you held on 17 September with the players in the region of Western Greece. And the worst thing is that you have pleaded as an excuse for the regional question that we are of counter-population and we have parliamentary control, as if the government had no parliamentary control. In other words, an excuse for non-parliamentary, which shows a totalitarian character in your perception. But it doesn't surprise us, because we see that the government is plundering such practices. We're not sorry for you. We are most sorry for those fellow Members of the majority who tolerate such practices, that colleagues are distinguished from those of the Co-Population and from those of the Opposition. Anyway, you're here today. The questions raised are well known. You are the longest-lived Memorandum Minister. You are responsible for partitioning the work or postponing a tender. Where we have arrived today, with a multitude of publications, you need to answer some simple questions. What contractors of those who had submitted tenders to the eight contractors have been excluded? Who are the miners of the eight contractors in the end? Let's find out. When will the contractors go to the Court of Auditors? How many contractors will go to the Court of Auditors? When will the projects be compatible and when will the projects begin? Once they start with good, when will it be over, since the contractual deadlines are forty-two months? So we're waiting for your answers. I am not only waiting for them, but all the people of Western Greece and Elias, and I would ask you to be as specific as you can and, if possible, closer to reality and honest as you have said so far, everything has been disproved. So thank you, and I'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kutsuko, I didn't know you loved me so much that you thought you had black eyes to see me because the Undersecretary answered you, Mr. Mavraanis. Although I don't remember historically loving me so much. We have coexisted in the same party space, when there was PASOK, when you were a secretary of PASOK's trade union. Refresh your memory. And obviously I didn't exclude you from the briefing. There was a request from Mr.Apostolis Katsifara, the regional director of Western Greece, to inform him and the local administration of the course of the Patras - Pyrgos competitions and of the completion of the road axis then from the Tower, i.e. the road axis of Pyrgos - Good Water and Good Water - Tsakonas as well as other projects of the area. We called all municipalities and the Technical Chamber of Western Greece. We said that it was not possible in the same briefing to have Vice-Presidents come. You didn't ask for it. The Ministry's door to any citizen is open, let alone the Vice-Presidents, to be informed in detail about what has happened and what has been done. I shall therefore try to brief you quickly, because I imagine that some mayors or some bodies have informed you of what was being discussed there, but the information was not made by me, by the Minister's servants, by the scholars, by the servants over time - we have not put any other servants than those of the other governments - so that the regional and municipal authorities know what had happened and how the citizens of Elijah worked for so many years than those who told them that they would do the Patras tower. So I'm saying it fast. By Law 4219/2013 it was decided to exclude the section Patras - Tower - Tsakona from the concession contract. This was a strategic mistake and since then the adventure of this project begins, because you had not informed the world that this contest to come out again, to be financed, the viability of this project, not of the Olympian Road, but of the Patra - Tower project, has to be considered from the outset. And you've been working the world. Previous governments have ensured that you have also provided funding. Obviously, not only did it not ensure funding, but the tender had also been directed to specific contractors of large companies and there was also an appeal by one of the companies that wanted to participate in the tender and insurance measures, because it did not have complete information on the project's cross-sectional elements, because the project had been made with a flat-rate project. A piece. So, as the scholars then informed, we had new studies, we had changes in quantities, we had changes in critical sizes of the contest and a change in the environmental study. Mayors heard this, not from the Ministry's political leadership, but from scholars and servants. They also heard that there would never be a major project approval, because the limit set by the European Commission is twenty thousand vehicles for average daily traffic and at most - to make a 15 thousand discount, because it had come out of the concession. This criterion, however, was known by those who awarded the track Patras - Tower in 2013. They knew it. Therefore, as has been shown by the sustainability studies that were subsequently carried out with the JASPERS Agency, which is the official consultant of the European Commission, if we had not had a 50% discount, if we did not increase competition, if we stayed in what we had in previous years, with a 0% reduction of 20% to 20% granted by the large companies in this tendering procedure, obviously the work that would have been approved was not a highway, it was a strip and LEAs per direction without a separator. In other words, it would be a road that would not secure security and what we wanted for the region. As you know, the approval of the major project was received in May 2018 by the European Commission. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] The scenarios requested by the European Commission were from a lane and LEA without a separating island and specific forecasts and studies and controls were carried out to obtain approval, which would never have been approved by the country for this part of the road and the crime that happened to come out of the tender that would have been completed now. That would be the ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u17	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second one, so if you like, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u18	It's okay. Keep everything in mind, Mr. Koutsoukos, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u19	I just don't want to blame Mr. Kutsuko for his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u20	It's just you and me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u21	We're the two of us, but we also have services here waiting to comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, for the project, you know, a lot has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u24	That we've set it up, that Calagritz took four sections to make a channel, that he was putting the pastures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u25	I must point out that we are already in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u26	And Mr. Koutsoukos was saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u27	Go on, Minister. I'm just reminding you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u28	It's okay. Let us sit here and inform the citizens, as the mayors, the district governor and Mr. Koutsukos, who knows all of what I'm saying. So let's go see what's happened to this day. In this regard, it should be noted that, in the absence of any comments from the Commission, it is not necessary to conclude that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European So far - not the five you ask - six are complete. The five have been completed, on one hand the dates are running if there is an appeal and in the next few days one is completed, from what the agency and the competition committee have informed us of the work they have done. In particular, the sections: first, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth - if you want me to tell you and in detail - are on the way to completion. In the briefing we had in the local authorities of the first and second degrees of self-government and in the Technical Chamber of Western Greece, the officials set a target, the next 20day to complete the second and third. From what the agency informs us, because we are not intervening in the work of the committee and the services, in the tenders for the second and third sections, the reasons for the first minority were not approved, and they have called on the latter to justify the inputs and from what they have now informed me of the justification. So to write a number of those who have been writing three and a half years now: the company "TOXOTIS S.A." of Mr. Kalogrisa has had a guarantee for the fourth division. It remains the practice of the first section that is a broker. The other two were rejected by the Committee. And we expect to see whether the second minority will have a justification that will be approved by the committee, or we will go to the third. As we talked about it, Mr. Kutsuko, from the start. Just as we talked about it all along, when some were accused of conceiving the government. The rest of the six competitions are per two works on different dealers, as was the political objective we had, namely not to go to one with a low discount, because it would never have been and would have been approved by the European Commission institutions, but to have many contractors who will at the same time implement the project. So our aim is to force the committee to complete a good job so that we do not have any more involvement. From what you can see, we don't have four. In the end of October, we will reasonably have all eight competitions matured in order for all eight to go to the Court of Auditors. If we do not have it by the time I tell you, we will be re-examined - at a meeting that will take place at the Ministry with the local authorities - whether we should send the six and leave the two who will not have completed the job. But our assessment is that it will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kutsuko, you have three minutes. I understand that you have a lot to cover and you will have the relative tolerance, because they are just two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u30	Absolute tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u31	If it were more questions, I wouldn't have been able to give you all that flexibility. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u32	I would have needed a long time if I had to revert to Mr Spirtzi's four-year term of office at the Ministry of Transport, beginning with the cancellation of a auction and fragmentation to eight contractors, who had detained the work and embedded him in a dead-end tactic. Although many proposals have been put forward to him, he insists on the same path. However, what matters to him is that he shows an obsession with this practice, which I described earlier as a dispersal to totalitarianism, to exclude with twitch the MPs of opposition from the meetings and call for the Coupling, as if he was his right and does not understand that he is passive from there. This is a matter of democratic order and it characterises it personally. Because the Minister has invoked our oldest acquaintance, to point out that he has a very selective memory. He forgot to say that George Papandreou in 2010 was responsible for giving the mayors the anointing. Along with the anointings he's made other policies, but he's not here now. We're coming to the object. What did I ask him? When will the projects begin and if all eight contractors go to the Court of Auditors. The Minister told us that he is not entirely sure that all eight contractors will go to the Court of Auditors, because the chosen government, Mr Kalogratis, has been excluded from the two contracts, the second and the third. The second will be called after the second, and the third member may also be called. That's the procedure. Therefore, and because we are now two and a half years after the tender of the second contractor, which took place on 17 May, can we not question that the work during Mr Spirtz's term of office may begin, namely that they will be approved by the Court of Auditors, that contracts will be signed and works started? We question it directly. Because what the Minister has said here has been disproved. He's the one who put Mr. Tsipras in February to tell Patra that the project will start in the summer. Mr. Tsipras obviously got the information from you, Minister. You obviously framed him. You are the same one who said that the projects would start in 2017. You are the same one who said that the auctions will be completed in 2016, that in 2015 the auctions will begin. You've said so much. I don't want to call them lies, but they're truths, self-disputes. You did so because you somehow wanted to incorporate citizens' anger into your own logic. I don't care. You might say it's the previous people's fault. You can also say that the servicemen explained to the mayors how the work had to be done. They are the same servants who did the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u33	And the precedent and the concession.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u34	Didn't they make it? Was the tendering not published in the Official Journal of the European Communities? So give me an explanation. When do we talk about it right last time or now? In any case, this matter is a daily matter for the citizens of Elias. You obviously don't read the type of Elijah. You have dozens of open letters. I was shocked by the letter of the president of the people with disabilities of Elijah, who said that this open grave, the hundreds of victims, must be shut down. The previous ones may be responsible, but you also have responsibility for the dozen fatal accidents. What I want to keep out of this debate - if anything can be left, Minister - is the fact that, firstly, we will probably not go to the eight contractors, but we will go to six. I wish we could go eight o'clock. I wish. I don't want this case to go on. I'll blame you anyway for the delay for the four years. Other ministers will cut the ribbons if the project ever takes place. I hope that the next Minister will not come and get a vacuum cleaner, as happened with Ambracia, and unify the eight contractors. Why are you saying that the first contractor will start, that is, we'll have a road from Patras to the Danube and then the fourth, fifth and sixth, that is, we'll have a road from Sagaika to Patras. Hey, that's not a highway! And I don't think that's your ambition. I am therefore sorry to have brought you to the House after six months, but today's debate had no substantial response for the people of Elijah who are struggling for this road at last. And, of course, for us, you and the government are responsible for it. Thank you for your little tolerance, Mr President. It was only two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last one. The last one, Mr Koutsouko, says that we take the responsibility of the road as a highway, because with the crimes dealing with the work that have been done in the past, we would not have a separate strip and we would have a lane and a lane on the one hand and a lane and a lane on the other. Unfortunately these were the crimes that took place in 2013 that some people voted to get this part out of the concession. Even greater responsibility - to tell you everything and not just to have the responsibility you do and the timely question - have the ones who did the initial competition and have the numbers bolted. When we say 'the figures have been rolled out', they have given such prices as stated in the report of the European Court of Auditors, we are not. Take the European Court of Auditors' report on concessions, as they have been and have been revised, so that you and everyone else can know how the projects were done, how much they cost and what the black holes were. Apart from the weakness you historically have, you know that I may have had disagreements with you and when we were on the same site and when our paths were separated, but I would not have affected you either on a personal or moral level, which you have been doing all these years. But now that it is revealed that in the end the chosen ones were of the previous governments, I saw you holding another stand in this Chamber, a completely different attitude. So let's see if we're canceling the previous competition. We have cancellation of the competition that you had made, because it would never have been done as a highway and it would never have been completed. Is that what the government says? Oh, no. That is what the studies that have been presented then say, and the approval of the European Commission. With 0% to 12% discount or 20% discount on the partition you say - which is not partition - the project would not be approved as a highway. It's so simple. This was the result of the cost-benefit study. Second, is this partition? Of course not. It is eight competitive procedures, as provided for in European legislation - which is why it has been approved from everywhere - and it will obviously not become the first section to become the next, but eight contractors will start at the same time. Is it a fascination that we ruled out the Vice-Population MPs? Did you ever ask for an update? Did you ever call me? Don't you have my phone? My phone hasn't changed. Since 2010, Mr Koutsoukos, has not changed my phone since I was in the Committee on George Papandreou. Call me whenever you want me to let you and any other Member or citizen want to know. Do you know what's a diffusion? It's a shock that we've lived for three and a half years. Slipping is to tell the citizens that they don't do the contest as they should, that they canceled the contest for a project that would never have been done. That's a dilute. Also, I am sincerely glad when you're fighting for the fact that we trapped the Prime Minister to say the wrong date. Listen, it's not the wrong date we said. We have not waited since the approved European Commission filed - by the 'JASPER' Agency - for four months to obtain the approval, nor have we expected that the justification of the eight tenderers in the tenders would be so careful and detailed that the tendering procedure would not have a problem subsequently. As you have noticed, we are finishing the works, Mr. Koutsuko. We do not do works without studies, clipboards, "on the foot", as planned by Patras - Tower, without precise quantities, with the wrong amounts deliberately, and without contests, such as the street of Messara or the Paraion that they need with contractors - brooms. Fortunately we have made a draft law which, if anything, preserves the public interest from such practices either of the servants or of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, on 21-9-2018: Criminal case law concerning the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, criminal case law concerning: (a) Minister of Health, Andreas Xanthos and (b) Deputy Minister of Health, Paulos Polakis, and criminal case law concerning the current ministers: (a) Minister of National Economy, Yannos Papantoniou, (b) Minister of Development, Nikolaos Christodoulakis and (c) Minister of Development, Alexandros Kalafatis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-25-S1-commons.u38	(a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
