ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First I have the honour to announce to the House the following: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2019’. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Koumoutsakos, requests a leave for absence abroad for 6 December and 7 December 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-03-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, New Democracy MP Mr Kokodimos asks for a leave for absence abroad on 6 December and 7 December 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-03-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, MP II Piraeus of SYRIZA Mrs Karakosta asks for permission from absence abroad from Saturday, December 22nd to Sunday, January 13th, 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-03-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I shall read out the scheduled topical and urgent questions for Monday, 3 December, but one of which will not be discussed. I'm starting with the ones for which they've been blocked at the last minute. The third, with number 190/27-11-2018, top-circuit question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Larissa General Hospital, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, for serious family reasons. Also, the fifth question under number 191/27-11-2018 by MP Atolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, for serious family reasons. We all hope that the health problem of his family will be solved soon. The first, with number 184/26-11-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Previous increase in cases and victims from the Western Nile virus", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, due to a workload. Also, the fourth under number 186/26-11-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Limit situation in the National Health System" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi, due to a workload. The sixth question under number 171/20-11-2018 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", it will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, who is at Eurogroup. Also, the seventh question, number 173/20-11-2018, topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Treasury on the Private Property of the State (TADE), will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, who is in Eurogroup. The first question with number 1722/19-9-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and method of transporting to the Uttome at the request of the lenders of 50 public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, who is at Eurogroup. The first under number 183/26-11-2018, a top-stage question by MP Kastoria, New Democracy, Maria Antonios, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Great damage by the Greek State due to the non-translocation of the IOY Kastoria", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mrs.Akaterini Papanatsiou, due to a workload. Also, the second question by number 178/23-11-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "It will finally protect our fellow citizens from unjustly claims by the public, which are made through the realisation?", will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou, due to a workload. The second question under number 177/22-11-2018 of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR M.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased intrusion in the Serres Law and the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasili, due to unsuccessful obligations. The eighth Question No 175/20-11-2018, topical question for the second parliamentary party of Greece, Mr Diamantos Manolakos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the continuing murderous attacks of fascistis against migrant workers in the Municipality of Acharnon and Floridis, it will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to unsuccessful obligations. The ninth under No. 159/16-11-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP, George Lazaridis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Responsibility for handling and evolution of surveys in the Bulgarians", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasili. The third, with number 188/27-11-2018, a topical question by the MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "Athens Andreas Region, Nea Makris Attica and the illegal claims of the Church", is not discussed due to lack of competence. The relevant Ministry is the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The tenth under number 99/24-10-2018 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service" will not be discussed. Eleventh question under number 55/11-10-2018 of a second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. Finally, the twelfth under number 2/1-10-2018, a topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "An reasons for violence was exercised by EL.AS. The demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement will not be discussed. All this is confirmed by a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-03-S1-commons.u5	(a) Parliamentary control, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
