ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 19-12-2018 authorisation, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the MZ's minutes of Wednesday, 19 December 2018, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Environmental arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Clearing it from 20-11-2018 Convention between the Greek State and companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN AEGEAN REGIONAL RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONDRAKS AND CAVAL OIL ANONISATION, amending the Convention on the exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the maritime region of Thrace between the Greek State and KAVAL OIL ANONI NEIGERIA validated by means of other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 21 December 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 230/17-12-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, entitled ‘Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 219/12-12-2018 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Inadmissible delay in the distribution to beneficiaries of the Rewarding Wind Parks for the years 2015-2017’. 3. The 233/18-12-2018 topical question of the Greek Parliamentary Attica, Mr. Ioannis Giokas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the region of Agios Andreas, in Nea Makri Attica and the illegal claims of the Church. 4. The 224/14-12-2018 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the House of Greece of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Do 11 guest houses close for unaccompanied children?" B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 231/17-12-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos of New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasios to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Distance of the Municipality of Lesvos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 235/18-12-2018 topical question by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Reading errors in the insurance code and in the specialty of various forest workers". 3. The 236/18-12-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Problems to meet individual needs in firewood of the residents of Mykes in the Regional Unit Xanthi". 4. The 198/3-12-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 5. The 205/4-12-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To extend Law 3869/10 to protect the first residence of the indebted households". 6. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 8. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 9. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2854/29-10-2018 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the transfer of a member's seat from the Medical School of the Democritus University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin the debate with the second with number 228/17-12-2018, a topical question for the first cycle of Parliamentary I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'What is the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for managing the cultural stock?' The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Constantine Army. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President, 2018 was another year of empty sales and closed refreshments in the archaeological sites and museums in the country, and just last July the pilot run of the new electronic ticket system began in eleven archaeological sites and museums. You, Minister, have now had a long experience of applied culture policy over the last four years from different positions. You know, then, that e-ticketing has announced it as a government already in 2015 and you have come to implement the first phase of the project almost by election. At the same time, the closure of the sales flow continues, resulting in a large comparative advantage of the ETUC to remain unexploited. Worldwide, Minister, the receipts from the sale of tickets to sites of cultural interest are minimal compared to those from the shops. You don't want to take that into account. Furthermore, the new Operational Organisation of the EDF remains in constant pending, which cancels all your commitment to modernise the Fund. Unfortunately, as a government you insist on the communication management of the increase in tourist arrivals and visitors in museums and archaeological sites. However, the suboptimal operation of the EFF and the corresponding malfunctions in the archaeological sites gives another reading: the launching of the valuables for the Greek economy of lost profits. And, of course, you're overlooking that. You also overlook that the increase in ticket revenue, which is recorded, is mainly due to an increase in the price of the ticket. And one could see the evidence to understand that it is disproportionately low that increase in relation to the rise of tourist attraction. At the same time, it asks questions about increasing the number of visitors of free entry to the archaeological sites. It has increased by 21.5%, particularly in relation to the minimum increase in the number of free entry visitors in museums, which is only 0.9%. I refer to the July 2018 figures in relation to July 2017. We call 'yes' to social policy on culture. However, we want specific answers to these blurred discrepancies so that they do not have another case of revenue for the Greek economy. We therefore want you to respond to us: what is your strategy for the EDF? Because in the Ministry of Culture each new Minister brings a new vision and a plan for the fund and, of course, a new CP. Also, why has the new fund not yet come forward? Finally, what is the timetable for the extension of the online ticket implementation project throughout the territory in 2019? Because you have announced that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u4	Good. Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The Archaeological Resources Fund is a legal entity governed by public law that collects revenue from the archaeological sites, museums and monuments of the country and at the same time manages the sales and refreshments in these areas. This revenue is used to finance the Ministry of Culture, through various mechanisms, for various needs. I shall, of course, return to the history of the Archaeological Resources Fund because it has not been established in the last three years. He's got a long story. The draft of the previous governments was the replacement of the Archaeological Resources Fund by an anonymous company, a subsidiary of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the notorious OPCF, who accepted abundant funding from public money - over 100 million euros - for projections, for the Cultural Olympiad, etc. Through established mismanagement, this agency was cleared up. The worst part was that while the substitution of the EDF was planned by the Greek Culture Promotion Agency which closed down, there was no care, so that after the closure of the OPCF, the Archaeological Resources Fund was strengthened. I shall also refer to the abundance of funding accepted by the Ministry of Culture's Solidarity Fund from the Archaeological Resources Fund as a percentage, in addition, since 2009, the abundance of funding that until then had been accepted by this fund from the special account of the Ministry of Culture. That is what we will talk more in the debate on the relevant draft law in Parliament in January. One of the responsibilities of the Archaeological Resources Fund is expropriations. Three loans were made during the 2000s - EUR 88 million in the first, EUR 88 million in the second and EUR 130 million in the third - for the payment of expropriations. In other words, a fund that was collected from the archaeological sites had to borrow to make expropriations. And of course, he joined the PSI in 2012 with more than 30 million euros of reserves, half of which have been "wrapped" to 50% and the rest are locked in cards, in bonds. Our strategy since 2015 has been this: Direct actions about what can be of direct efficiency, so that the Ministry of Culture and more strategic actions can be financed automatically and quickly. The revision of the tariff policy you mentioned was a necessary modernisation that has not taken place for a number of years. We have practically implemented European good practices. We have also implemented a European originality: for the first time in the country we have a bizonal system, another for the high period of visitability, and another for the low period of visitability, in which prices are even lower than those in force before. Also, there was a series of organisational improvements mainly in the issue of tickets around the Acropolis, which had spectacular results. At the same time, the strategic step was taken to install an electronic ticket, in fact to replace the previous electronic publishing system, which had been paid by the country with EUR 2 million, while EUR 500,000 had to be maintained. This system operates not pilotically, but normally since the summer and the rest of the operational resources and sales management subsystems are already being built. You referred to pricing policy and tickets. For the first time with the new system, we have partitioning. We can know, in other words, what rate each category represents. Their comparison with other museums in the country, such as the Acropolis Museum, shows that the percentage of free entry is at corresponding levels, around 26% to 30%. The categorisation of freeway tickets is that about half is for the age of eighteen. I imagine that you are not suggesting that the free entry of young people and children in the country should be stopped. In your question, you referred to the categories of small and mediumsized enterprises. These are a minimum of 0.22%, 0.3% - on the total ticket. So there's no question here. I would also like to mention the extension of the electronic ticket. Evidently, this system cannot be applied to the two hundred and seventy-five archaeological sites throughout the country. A choice has been made of about fifty archaeological sites, which account for most of the visitability. They've been allocated to eleven areas. We are in discussions with donors about the study and the local donors, so that we can have parallel expulsion in the new year that starts. I'll refer to sales. Let me say that because of the situation prior to the Ministry, we received the sales out of sale without sellers. For the first time, we have introduced a hundred fifty positions of sellers. Let me admit that last year there was a delay in their recruitment. This year we're ready. Since April they will be in their place. We also have a series of orders. This year will be full of sellers from products, with funding from the Archaeological Resources Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u7	Minister, this government has become accustomed to making historical regressions to justify your unjustified, ineffective policy, which is full of vain, irresponsible or fragmentary interventions. What we can see is that, this year, the problems that you do not mean to solve the four years that you are in power and that you could have changed everything. In an effort to save the image of your inefficient policy on closed refreshments, you provided direct assignments last June for a new body to manage the properties and refreshments of the Ministry and the EDF. Really, can you describe exactly what the procedure was with which you will proceed to select contractors? What was finally left, Minister, is another lost year. And that's right here. Why did you let the Greek State lose revenue from closed refreshments and licenses? Why didn't you act in time? This is a situation which, moreover, affects our country's image to foreign visitors and undermines the quality of our tourism product. I can pass this on to you because I recently visited the Olympian archaeological site and it was shocking that the refreshment was closed. I should now like to come to the question of the new organization. The last project was handed over to the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture in March 2018. Why hasn't something gone on since? How do you imagine the upgrading, as you say, of the fund, when it is still subordinated, without qualified computer staff, which is necessary both for the needs of e-ticking and e-shop? Even for the implementation of the online ticket, which started as we said pilots - after the announcement that had already been made since 2015 - private sponsorships were sought this year, and this project could be financed by the NSRF. However, the EFF could not obtain management capacity, which is necessary in order to be able to claim funds from the European Union. And he couldn't get management capacity, because he doesn't have proper staff and structures. Instead of making sure that the EDF is effectively upgraded, you preferred the easy solution of the donors, money that could be made available for other ineligible needs of the monuments. In addition, the online ticket continues to manage it by a private company. Have you done anything to get management to the fund? We don't have a problem with private companies. Your left government is supposed to have it. One more thing. Why is the Ministry of Culture not projected to be able to book online bookings? All of these are questions that raise serious doubts as to what your strategy for the EDF is in the end and what it is aimed at. The upgrading of the fund with the new organisation is still a plan in your drawer. The only truth is that so far nothing has changed in the EDF except its administrations. You obviously have left the administration of the fund at the mercy of personal controversy and small interests. Minister, the term of office of the present government in culture is mainly characterised by inappropriate announcements, changes in institutional persons and nonetheless not by work. Four years at the wheel of this country four changes in the leadership of the Ministry of Culture. All this proves one thing, that the Left's relationship with culture is another myth that collapsed miserably.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u9	I'll start with the last one. I can assure you that the relationship between the Left and the culture is far from shattered. This can be understood, at least by us, when we are in the areas of culture, whether it is a cultural heritage or a modern culture. We see people, we have direct contact with them, we record problems, we constantly give solutions, and it is a relationship that is built and increasingly strengthens. I'm going to go through things you spoke about quickly. First, the online ticket is in normal operation. Secondly, its management is at the Archaeological Resources Fund, not at any private company. Thirdly, the involvement of donors was not only about funding, it was mainly about the introduction of know-how which unfortunately did not exist in the Ministry of Culture and had to deal with this issue. I would like to thank them personally from this step precisely because, while the needs and demands of the Ministry were fully recorded, they simply carried out the Ministry's plan. I wonder who has brought you the information that the management is done by individuals. With regard to the issue of viewing, show what and where? We currently have data and a study is being prepared to communicate the online ticket ahead of the new season, based on the statistics that we have for the first time since the implementation of the new system. All I have to say is that we have seen that two-thirds of the online publishing is done via mobile phones. This means that we should redesign the implementation and promote it primarily for this use. We also have full data on nationalities issuing tickets online, from where tickets are issued, so we now have data to make a targeted communication projection and not a communication projection. I shall refer briefly to the refreshments. I'm surprised what you mentioned. Perhaps you should know, from the administrations before that government, that in many cases the operation of the refreshments is more problematic than their non-operation. There is a series of publications - even on the news - which highlight precisely the poor quality of the services offered by the hirers we received from the previous administrations through various procedures. There is, therefore, a new framework. The development of the recovery plan, which will be approved by the Central Archaeological Council and then new competitive procedures will be launched. Yes, we have also anticipated a direct lease process for a certain period of time, so that while the competitions are evolving, the refreshments are open for the new year. I'll close by referring to the organogram. I will say that the Ministry has made a number of efforts on this matter. I took over in March and the next year, having worked very intensively in the time it has passed, will present an establishment plan for a legal person governed by public law, which can manage the cultural heritage as it deserves, based on good practices and norms that we have seen in other legal persons of public law doing the same work in Europe, but also in Greece, for example the National Register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with our second question with No 232/18-12-2018 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Twelfth year sustainable and permanent regulation only for existing dues for insurance contributions." The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Petropoulos Anastasios will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u11	The issue of dues, Mr President, is the subject of the question and the way in which, on the one hand, the debtors can be facilitated in order to pay part of the sums due and, of course, the insurance funds - particularly the ECA - to collect the sums due. What's the problem? Approximately 35 billion is currently the outstanding debts of the insurance funds, which have joined the CRL and the debtors are about a million four hundred thousand. Of them, four hundred seventeen thousand were integrated, but only twenty - eight thousand debtors have been able to hold it. At the same time, after the extrajudicial mechanism, which would allegedly solve the problems, about three and a half thousand applications have been submitted to join the extrajudicial compromise. It is clear that we have a major problem and have not sought to resolve it effectively so far. There have been occasional adjustments, such as that of a hundred doses. But today we need a sustainable and definitive regulation. Let me note that 82% of the debts relate to up to 30,000 euros. In other words, about one million and fifty-five thousand of our fellow citizens owe up to 30,000 euros. If we get the 15,000 limit, that figure is about 1,000. It is therefore not a question of two, three, five, ten big businessmen, but of a large part of the working population. We therefore need to find a solution. And the solution, in our view, is a sustainable and definitive regulation of existing debts, with the removal of fines and surcharges, at a reasonable rate starting from the first day of validity of the arrangement, and the possibility of joining at any time and, above all, the possibility of recovering and reintegration if for any reason, this arrangement by the debtor is not complied with, of course, by paying back certain amounts which will be determined by this arrangement. We are in this direction, and we ask the Ministry for all those who have not joined the extrajudicial court and cannot join in walking such an arrangement immediately. I think it is necessary for both the insurance funds and the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u12	Good. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. As soon as the government announces measures, the opposition comes and repeats them. Mr Mitsotakis did so, after he heard that we would go ahead with the settlement of debts of up to a hundred and twenty instalments. He suggested it, as if it was his thought. All these years they've been creating debtors and now they're coming to save them by announcing what we're surely doing. That is what I hear from Mr Kegeroglu now, even though I have responded on several occasions to my speech on the budget last Thursday. I have also announced a series of measures for debt settlements for those who cannot join the extrajudicial compromise. But in order to restore a little, I would like to say some of the findings that Mr Kegeroglu and everyone who speaks of this issue should have done. The arrangements we made for the extrajudicial compromise, the way our Government has previously started its term of office since 2015, has the following data, that about a thousand two hundred have joined the arrangement for debts of up to 50,000 euros. They were retired enclaves who had completed the years to get a pension and the natural age limits, but they owed money. From EUR 20,000 that was and is the limit we went to EUR 50,000 to the limit that they could net, that is, pensions that they could get for the period up to September 2015. Just a thousand, two hundred people came into this process. That's a problem. He's troubled us too much. It does not seem that such proposals and thoughts do not seem to extend the limit at a time when they are beneficial. It is not followed by the insured. Therefore, we need to see other measures to alleviate the debts. So we had to find a way to determine what measures the debtor can actually satisfy, to cover. That's why we made the extrajudicial compromise. However, the extrajudicial compromise has presented a number of problems. We have seen these problems. Let me tell you that, from those applying, about one fifth of the debts are already being settled. There are four-fifths of those who have applied for, and their applications have been completed, with concerns relating mainly to banks, which have more guarantees and make things difficult. In these circumstances, we are making other arrangements to facilitate the extrajudicial compromise. We are increasing the limits of the arrangements so that up to three hundred thousand can get into the quick and simple process. It encloses the insured person who goes to make adjustments from any obstacles that the banks put. And if the banks don't agree, then the extrajudicial compromise is going ahead with the insurer, the FBI or the EIF or the public. We are therefore taking measures which seem to be going to be effective. We have announced new measures with the beginning of the new year. We are working on them so that those who cannot enter the out-of-court or cannot be satisfied with these rules can in a much simpler way and with a lesser amount of debt - because this seems to be the main issue - go faster and can actually join the procedures. I'll tell the rest of it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u14	Good, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I did not ask the banks if they would agree, which is an issue concerning the insurance funds, that is, the state and the debtors. The Minister spoke to us about banks. Is the banks' association in the Greek state? Do the banks have to consent to make a setup on a debtor? Do not be confused with the out-of-court set of arrangements, total arrangements of a debtor. You said that from a million four hundred thousand, about a thousand two hundred, a thousand five hundred, that is 1%. This shows the inefficiency of this mechanism. I have described what is required of you. This is a purely sustainable integration and reintegration arrangement, even in the event of loss, with clear rules, without the involvement of third parties, whether these are banks, other ministries, whether they are public or anything. That's what has to be done. We have submitted to you since 13 November a proposal for a law which, of course, relates to overall economic recovery and social justice, but Article 39 of this law has precisely this proposal for sustainable regulation. In addition, we have tabled it as an amendment to a previous bill and you could have discussed it - if not accepted - in order to speak in a different field, that is, with this regulation in force and to discuss its results. Instead, you told us something about Mitsotakis, about announcements, etc. That's about you and Mitsotakis. Here, in this House, will you come with the proposal for a law that we have submitted to you, to discuss democratically, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and to make decisions, or will we refer it back to the future and constantly accumulate new dues? And, of course, when this wait is in place and we do not put the terminal in place, the dues are increasing, which is why we must end this debate with the entry into force of a sustainable regulation of ten years or twelve years, as we decide and depending on the amounts. It's a million four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. It's neither two nor three. For the large, at least, majority of them, we have to give a way out, a solution. That is what we tell you, without anything else, and we believe that at some point you will accept it. But, of course, he'll have created a new generation of debtors that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u17	I talked about the thousands of two hundred who joined Law.4331/2015 in the period that had been defined by that law until September 2015, about the debts that we increased to 50 000, not what you said. There was a misunderstanding about that. I would point out the difference in this matter. So it's not what you said, Mr. Kegeroglu. However, I must tell you that the government, as it has proved, is planning and implementing its policy. And what we've already announced will be done. You will obviously vote for it too, because you cannot do it differently. But what you're going to vote for...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u18	Don't make the interpretation of our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u19	You can't do any different. Because our own proposals cannot be met with the necessary, willing - as you do - and we have said that - and we have said so - you are voting and you will vote for the measures which the government brings. But there's nothing to change about the truth that every time we say we're going to do something you're going to run before you say that you said it. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u20	If you want, bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kegeroglu, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u22	The difference will appear. What we do will be very different from what you say and will be much more beneficial to the world. That is why we are not talking about what you are saying. Because our design is effective and will surely be such, which will bring debtors - finally - to a normal life, relieved and not forced by all of the situation they have experienced in previous years. Because - I repeat - 92% of the debtors were created over the previous governments, Mr Kegeroglu. And that's an unsolved truth. It also seems that everything we have done in this period, with the reduction of contributions, has brought people back into a possibility of being able to pay contributions instead of what you claim to be in the text of your question. The CRL has increased receipts and has not increased them by strangling, has increased them because by reducing the contributions made by the government in a way that is very important, people can pay their debts. And that is why of the 3 billion 800 million collected by the CRL since 2013, the 2 billion 300 million was collected in two years, in 2017 and 2018. And we have a truly significant increase in the numbers of employment. Let me tell you that only within 2017 did ninety-one thousand ninety-three and thirty-three people started individual operations, interrupted eighty-three, we had more than eighty-five-three thousand, sixty-three of those who interrupted the activity and twelve thousand five-sixty-sixty-six more, compared to 2016. So all the figures show - and in essence, that is why I mention it - the economic base created in the market that climate change is changing, the data change, we have a much better performance in the economy as well. That is why the debt arrangements will be effective, because the market can respond to them. And we will definitely do it in the first quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u23	When's he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u24	I'll be right back. Election, of course - as you say - but what do we do? Now we can. All this planning of the government has been announced since the beginning and is respected on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u25	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following questions will not be discussed by the relevant ministers as a result of their imprisonment: The fourth question under number 234/18-12-2018, the first question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Serious problems of workers in the interests of “Zoura”,” will not be discussed due to the absence of a government mission of the Minister. Also, the sixth question under number 218/12-12-2018, the first-round question from the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and the Athens MP Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The House of Athens is in a marginal state", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotios. The first, with number 226/17-12-2018, top-circuit question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Vettas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The payment problems relating to the non-subsidy of agricultural parcels" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Development and Food Mr. Arachovitis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 227/17-12-2018, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Remuneration of oil producers and other producers for the damage they suffered", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Development and Food Mr Arachovitis. Cause: workload. The first, with number 229/17-12-2018, topical question of the new Republic MP Argolidas Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great and unjustified delays in the implementation of the extension of the Palais to Koutsopodi, Mycenas, Monastery, Fichatis and Ermionidas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Development and Food Mr.Arachovitis. Cause: workload. The third, with number 223/13-12-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP, George Lazarides, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Large delays in the work to highlight the archaeological monument of Lofus Kasta", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Culture and Sport. Cause: workload. The fifth, under number 225/14-12-2018, timely question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of Athens, Mr. Marios Georgiadis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Financing the Pan-Hellenic Liaison of the Falls from the Gross Revenue on Private Television", will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Ministry. The Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is responsible for answering this question. The fourth under number 193/30-11-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “The administration of the Aegean is promoting the government”, will not be discussed. The fifth question, under number 120/1-11-2018, is a second question for the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed. The sixth question, under number 75/16-10-2018, on a second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of an inland ship”, will not be discussed. Finally, the seventh question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: "Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy". This bill, after the decision of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is discussed in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 17 December 2018, the debate on the principle and on the articles will be concluded in a meeting. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives, as well as an Independent MEP are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that a speaker be appointed by each parliamentary group, as well as a speaker by the Independent Members. Finally, we propose that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. On speaking time, the Bureau proposes that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have eight minutes of speaking time, that the relevant ministers have ten minutes, that the other ministers or State Secretarys have five minutes, that the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group have ten minutes, that the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups should have eight minutes, that the Parliamentary Representatives should have six minutes and that the parties designated have five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u27	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr George Psychogios has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, when will the registration system be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u29	If you listened well, speakers are proposed by the parties. Obviously there is a list of speakers proposed by the parties, who have not yet come to the Bureau. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. You'll show a little tolerance, I imagine. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before entering the contents of the bill, it is necessary to emphasise once again that refugee - immigration is one of the top political and social issues of our time. And what exactly does that mean? In recent years hundreds of thousands of intimidated people have passed from Turkey to Greece and from there to Europe. Since 2015, much has changed, while Europe in the first time attempted to show a human face, in 2016 it became the Europe of closed borders, Europe that several Member States do not respect the agreements on relocations and relocations, others that close their ports, but that envision hot spots in third countries of Africa and so on. The last example is the refusal of some countries to sign the UN World Migration Pact. In this way, apart from scapegoats that create, they also build an internal enemy, because some of these countries are trying to bring back the working middle ages. All of this is indicative to see that the European Union has now entered a dangerous and dark orbit. It proposes the feasibility of legality, in many cases, sometimes circumventing international law, the very European law, the directives and regulations it has adopted. We must also show that we close our eyes to the real roots of the issue of wars, armed conflicts, dictatorships, poverty and climate change. At least the Greek Government at every opportunity highlights them. This problematic political framework must be seen in a wider context, as it is now clear that the horizon of Europe is darkened by the rise of the extreme right-wing politicians who preach hatred for everything different and fuelled by the increase in inequalities. In this situation, it is time for our own responsibility, it is time for the democratic political forces to be responsible, in other words, how we respond to the threat. First of all, the Government and SYRIZA have shown many ways of responding to this challenge, having made a multi-level effort since 2015, without celebrating that we have done everything well with mistakes, with delays, with difficult conditions to remain in some of the islands, but also with victories along with the huge majority of Greek society in access to education, medical care, work and social welfare, with steps still to be done. This is also the worthy burden on the Left based on the values of solidarity, equality and respect for rights. Following this necessary introduction, as we cannot examine anything outside the framework in which it is being done, I am passing the provisions of the Ministry of Migration Policy bill. It is, as I said in committee, a short draft law, consisting of eight articles, which mostly regulate procedural and organisational issues, so that the services of the Ministry can be more operational and can respond more quickly to the objective and urgent needs of the refugee question. I believe that the causes of the refugee and immigration issue and Europe's inadequacy in responding through the implementation of the agreements cannot demonstrate the need for the relevant ministry, together with the other ministries of the government, to have a good cooperation, with all the factors of what we call refugee - immigration, public services, international organisations, NGOs, on an issue that will be permanently occupied in the coming years, to provide strategic and long-term solutions to meet the requirements and procedures, to avoid further extensions of the emergency and, of course, exceptional procedures. In particular, this bill simplifys the procedure already provided for in Law No.4375/16 concerning the possibility of renting real estate partnerships between public services for the issue of a suitability certificate, as well as property leases and the newly established Asylum Protection Directorate, as well as the use of all appropriate facilities for the hospitality of refugees. The necessary additions are also made to the institutional framework of the Ministry of Migration Policy Organisation. For example, the financial department's responsibility for payments to the staff of the Asylum Office is made more clearly than the Ministry's regular budget, in order to avoid delays in payroll, which no one honours. The internal mobility process is also improved in order to allow travellers to move to the central agency of officials of the Ministry. In addition, a Ministerial Decision is provided for in order to regulate the arrangements for the provision of reception conditions to citizens of third countries or stateless applicants for international protection, as well as to CSR for minor refugees, in order to make the implementation of Law 4540/2018 progress as far as possible. On this point, of course, we must stress the need for a rapid implementation of the committee's draft law on unaccompanied minors and the increase in structures for unaccompanied minors, which is also promoted by the Ministry of Social Solidarity. For a specific period of time, arrangements which operate exceptionally in general legislation, but remain necessary, as they serve urgent needs, procurement, secondment of staff, abbreviated border procedures. That is why I said earlier that we should do all we can and that this bill should have that role in order to avoid such extensions and exceptional procedures. Article 6 deals with financial issues of the Ministry retrospectively, which, according to what the ministers have told us, also proves to be the result of the conventions which are part of the "GENERAL". In addition to this, the bill also introduces a number of specific regulations concerning residence permits, the most important of which are the following: a new category of national entry visa, granted to Australian citizens of 18 to 31 years of age in the youth mobility programme. A new category of national entry visa shall be established to citizens of third countries who are a flight, technical and administrative staff entering the country for the purpose of covering the fire-fighting needs, following a recommendation by a competent public body. Improving the permit for residence in the so-called ‘Golden Visa’ and resolving cases of joint ownership, heirs, etc. Arrangements are also made to ensure better prevention and suppression of dirty money laundering in this respect. Reshapes the procedure of L.4251/2014 for the imposition of administrative sanctions on airlines or shipping companies, as well as any other natural or legal person carrying out any form of public transport of persons from abroad to Greece, who either does not possess documents or has clearly false identification documents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the amendments that have already been tabled, I should particularly like to focus on the important provision brought by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance for the incompatibility of Community aid, a constant request from farmers who are now reality. The implementation of this measure forms part of the wider framework of positive measures in our political ambitions, to alleviate and strengthen social groups which have been most affected in the years of the memorandum. Since I do not have much time, I would like to close with a political comment, which has to do with the last-century positions, as we have heard mainly at the conference in New Democracy, by some speakers. I would also like to see an official position here by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, with whom we have also been able to coexist in the Council of Europe. Is it possible, then, that the shameful and incorrect term ‘lathromian’ and ‘lathromb immigration’ should be used to the satisfaction of the former Prime Minister and the Vice-President of your resignation? Are there any people in your life who are 'broken'? Secondly, is it possible to speak of the demolition of the European and Greek population, due to refugees and immigrants, when the Greek people have left abroad, in various periods as refugees and immigrants, adopting on both issues a phrase of the Golden Dawn? And what is your position on the integration of these people into the Greek society, which we promote and have promoted other European countries? Finally, it is possible for the President of the New Democracy to envision a liberal immigration policy, expressing the following phrase: 'Because, yes, there are borders for us and the borders must be guarded'. Explain clearly what you mean by protecting the borders and especially when it comes to the sea, because they have been solved and answered by international law by research and rescue and nothing else. I don't want to spend more on this. Besides, the phrase: "I want to finish with SYRIZA for what he believes" is an indication of the extreme right-wing turn in which you have begun to plunder. It is also what persuads us to continue to fight for these ideas that you seem to want to perish, fight for man, for law, for solidarity, for equality and for social justice. I invite you to vote in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy. In our Ministry, but also in the appropriate ministries, we still have enough work to do so that we can get to the point where we want both the people who come to our country and the Greek citizens. After all, there is an amendment to compensate the people of Moria for creating a cohesion society centred on human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u31	The rapporteur, Mr Varvitsiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been long since the Prime Minister took office and told us that SYRIZA and his administration will be every word of the Constitution. This bill, Minister, proves you have no respect in any of the words of the Constitution. And you do not have, because a basic principle imposed by the Constitution is the principle of good legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have in my hands is the bill that has been filed. I also hold in my hands the amount of amendments that came up until last night. I don't know how many more you'll bring. You did the laundry! The biggest laundry machine has become your bill! Transparency laundry, photographic settings, laundry laundry, laundry washing machine. It's a disgrace! Are you talking about good legislation, about respect for the Rules of Procedure, about respect for the Constitution, you who are currently trespassing any sense of transparency in the management of public money, any sense of transparency in the production of parliamentary work? What are you bringing in with your bill? What rights, Mr. Rapporteur? Did he raise the issue of illegal immigrants? That's a clandestine-legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u33	You're a smuggler!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u34	Please. Be respectful!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u35	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u36	You respect people!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u37	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u38	Do you think that because you have a majority - only parliamentary, not folk - you can do what you want in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u39	You're a smuggler!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u40	You'll apologize. You'll apologize!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u41	Who are you, though, to apologize?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u42	Easy, Mr. Varvichiotis. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u43	You will also apologise to the Greek people, but to all those who are telling them today that you will not keep any transparency treaty for what you have spent in the past. Are you bringing in arrangements with which to abolish any control of legality on expenditure? And not only in the Ministry of Migration Policy, but also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the secret funds were going. There were intercategories within the Ministerial Council, very heavy accusations, which have remained unanswered. The resignation letter of the Foreign Minister has not been published, in which he says he blames the Government itself for being financed by Soros. Not enough explanations have been given as to where the secret funds and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence have gone. And an amendment is coming today to tell us that it will be charged with another half million euros, without describing what costs it costs to legalise and which have been given - it says - with bureaucratic irregularities and cannot be paid because there are bureaucratic problems and we have to pay them. There's no one in charge, someone in charge. The ones you place in responsible positions, with photographic arrangements, are usually not accountable. The same is happening here in the Ministry of Migration Policy bill. Mr Vitsats submitted to the committee a letter saying that these costs would be paid. Why don't you do it in the body of the bill saying that they will just be paid, that we don't give you a free hand to the penitentiary, but only to the particulars, to serve a certain degree of transparency? Because the arrangement you bring is really creepy. It's creepy to say that whatever expenditure has been incurred by the Ministry of Migration Policy is legal. I've never seen such a provision in parliamentary history in any of the legislations. Leases signed and expenditure incurred by the Ministry of Migration Policy or by the Ministry of Interior on behalf of the Ministry of Migration Policy until the publication of this document, without complying with the procedures of Presidential Decree 80/2016; your Presidential Decree - are considered legal and can be analysed and paid at the expense of budget appropriations for the financial year 2019 of the Ministry of Migration Policy. That is what you want to vote on, ladies and gentlemen. Laundry! It is not just the responsibility, it is the money now. I challenge you to change this article and tell you exactly what costs you intend to pay. Because what you are doing is basically receiving, on behalf of the Greek state, the costs that the European Commission may have refused to pay. They are included in what they have sent to Europe, but they have told you that they are not being paid, because the way you have spent them has not complied with any of the conditions laid down, either of the exceptional financing or of the regular financing of the European Union. So you come and it's loaded with the Greek people. I really wonder with your courage to think that you can legislate in the last few months of your governance here, without covering anyone, but none of the terms of good legislation for which you are, however, being cut off in the Constitutional Review Committee. In the Constitutional Review Committee we are discussing how the House will work better and will not be considered by citizens as a place of transaction and as an area in which illegality is covered, through such urgent procedures and amendments that arrive at 23.00 hours in the evening. I would like to say another two words on immigration policy. It is a monument of incapacity, an insult to human existence and an insult to national sovereignty. You have not complied with any of the conditions relating to human rights, nor have you complied with any of the many legislation you have brought to date, you have not complied with any deadline with the asylum procedure, you have failed to observe the letter and spirit of the European Union - Turkey's joint declaration that you have celebrated, you have failed to resolve the problem of living for thousands of people on the islands, you have not managed to insulate the sense of security on the Greek islands, but on the other Greeks as well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you do not understand that Europe has not decided to be an open space. Europe is an area where it wants to guard its borders, control who enters and awards transparent and clear protection procedures to anyone who is entitled to it. For everyone else, Europe is not a destination. You insist that you implement a distorted policy from 2015 until today, we have "opened and waited for you" and you have not been able to organise your services so that anyone who is entitled to asylum receives the protection that is to be and who is not entitled to, see the way out. It's over and out. And because we have heard too much that our policy is supposed to be far-right, Mr Psychoyer, I will give you the criticism of the Golden Dawn against the New Democracy systematically and regularly because our positions do not match. And they don't fit in because we serve rules of law and international treaties. We do not serve the "spot dogs" and don't give them. We are not serving a politically incomplete, endless, cost-effective policy for this and we are also voting against your bill. I'll tell you one last word. The new Republic has tabled another one - which I am sure you will refuse to discuss - concerning the extension of the low VAT regime to the islands of the northern Aegean Sea affected by the migration and refugee crisis. So many of you share, so galantic you have become, let's give the islanders at least a minimum sense of recognition for their offer and, of course, for the full suffering they have suffered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. The next speaker is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Papatheodorou. By the time Mr Papatheodorou comes to Stepma, if you agree, like the other rapporteurs and specialist speakers, because as you know, there are quite a lot of ministerial amendments and we expect the appropriate ministers, of course, who tabled the amendments to come to the House, as they have already come to this House, I would suggest that we do not complete the circle of rapporteurs and speakers, but that the ministers also intervene when they come and support the amendments so that they do not wait until the end. It's a small number of speakers. They are five speakers. In this way, we will also be able to obtain time, but they will also be able to be informed and asked questions by the Members, the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Because if all the ministers come together, it's gonna make it hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u46	Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, first of all we agree with your proposal. As Mr Varvitsiotis spoke, there was another ministerial amendment on the legalisation of the Ministry of National Defence's expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u48	Ministerial?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u49	Ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u50	Two will be here. There's gonna be another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u51	Can the government decide how many costs it wants to launder, bring them, get them to know before speakers speak? Because every ten minutes it launders some other expense. This paradox, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u52	Good. You agree. Give the floor to Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u53	You're talking...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u54	I am speaking, as the Constitution gives me the right, and at some point on SYRIZA you need to learn to listen to the views of the opposition. We are living in a democratic regime, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u55	Well, all right, Mr. Metarakis. So since we agree on this procedure, I will give the floor to Mr Papatheodorou. Then, because Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos and Mr Arahovitis are here now, we will give them the floor to the amendments and we shall continue. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the government has decided to unleash many ministries. Launching, Minister, the Ministry of Migration Policy, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Interior. This is called 'placing' by means of amendments and is a characteristic element of a bill that is a picture of evil. I really do not understand how you take it - and I told the committee - the burden of such legal and political arbitrary, which is coming today, not just to prove how national and Union law is violated, but at the same time to point to the other ministers how at the end of the year you can open the chest and pay off the chest money for any expenditure you have done without any transparency, without any control. It is unprecedented, and it is illegal not to explain what the retroactive reimbursement of expenditure means without any time to be determined, without spending being known, and that in all ministries horizontally and, of course, with opaque procedures, as the contracts you come to legitimise with the supposed bill of emergency, due to unforeseen events, even for the future. It is challenging for a legislative initiative, Minister, to establish a regime of opaque, uncontrolled ministerial competence and to so clearly violate the basic principles of legal certainty. This is now a day-to-day version of the status of SYRIZA and legislative arbitrary, which you are serving today. Minister, I had mentioned a few things during the debate on the timely question to you about direct assignments to addressing the needs of temporary reception and hospitality of refugees. I would remind you that you said that in Moria they are all vaccinated, there are schools and there are even learning musical instruments. Let's see this picture again today. So I say that your Ministry is now treating you as a real estate representative. This bill confirms that the government continues to face up to and manage the refugee crisis with opacity, by fragmenting European funds, violating human rights in the hot spots it has created, and when it cannot waste European funds, then it makes such a bill with such amendments too simply to smash the money from the state budget. The government chooses to go through this with express procedures. We do not have time today to explain how embarrassing it is for this House to have a bill that is only money to go through with half-day discussion procedures, without any bodies being heard, because there is no need to hear the opinion of the Single Authority for Public Contracts and, on the other hand, with express procedures from Parliament in the middle of a debate on the budget, to avoid the outcry from the opinion - the independent authority of the Independent Public Procurement Authority, which considers the bill to be ambiguity. The draft law, according to us, regulates an exceptional law and violates, as the principle says, essential provisions of national and Union law. We are going to highlight something today, as we did at the beginning of the day, when by public complaint we had been given the opinion of the principle of publicity. Before the government brings the draft law to the House, we have said - and we say it today - that it should certainly be checked by the prosecutors. For such a process of retrospective payment of contracts horizontally to a number of ministries, I think a prosecutor should be interested in looking for contracts and how these contracts have been concluded. Let's go to the bill articles. In Article 1, while the Government and the Minister want to cover the rental of hotels by direct awards of contracts, this is what this is all about - hiding behind the rental of suitable private property - as they say - real estate, it goes on to pay for the rental of hotel units, accommodation or other hotel services. What did the beginning find out about this? The Authority finds that there is a doubt and should be made clear whether the provisions relate to a public contract and to procedures for the award of public contracts, as first of all apparent from the wording of that article. In the light of these comments, there is unclearness of the provisions in question, since the object, purpose, legal consequences and procedure under which they are to be implemented or implemented, for example, with or without consideration, other than the value of the property concerned, is not established by means of a programme agreement or not. It is unprecedented that the Minister decides on the use of facilities suitable for hosting and hosting activities, without mentioning in the law who judges and who certifies the need for renting private property, in which area, with which study, for what purpose and for how long. Because - this is arbitrary - with this particular provision you are giving yourself, Minister, the right to decide arbitraryly, without anyone's opinion, where there will be a hosting structure for who will enjoy the results of the contract that you decide to conclude with him. That is why I told you that this is the epitome of arbitraryness, of 'leafing' retrospectively and without a date, I imagine, all of this time of yours. So when you tell us that you are going to retroactively cover the contracts from 1-9-2018, do you other colleagues know why they're using this date? Because in September 2018 a series of contracts with hotel businesses came out, with complete opacity, without any study and without any determination of the feasibility or suitability of this site. These are the sinners, these are what you come to cover today, these are what you want to pay retrospectively and without knowing not only how much the total amount is, but also where it appears that there was this need for contracts with these hotels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please have some tolerance. It's very important. In Article 2, it is proposed to add at the end of paragraph (a) of Article 18 of the Act of 2017 that, in all cases of this paragraph, the concept of ‘supply of services’, i.e. a service contract, including private property leases, is to be interpreted as fulfilling the Ministry’s mission. You understand that there is no clearer evidence. What is a service contract and what is not defined by the HHWO, but by the national law and Union law, and so the government cannot change it by way of derogation. Do you want me to read to you, Minister, the basic principles of a Union framework for public procurement? Firstly, it is the principle of transparency. Does this article mean anything to you? The principle of proportionality also applies. Furthermore, the principle of prior notification. Which one of these principles comes the draft law, which you are proposing today, to respect? He's breaking them all! And you do not understand the simple, that you can, you have the ability to change the national law, but the Union law on public procurement cannot change it and they will be judged by the courts at the end. This kind of property lease relates to'sin' direct award contracts for hotels, which the government now comes to legalize. First of all, we denounced this since last September. In Article 3, you have been answered by the authority. There are no classified contracts. There is a secret content of some contracts, but you still have to have justified it sufficiently. On the other hand, you are actually bypassing Union law and you are setting up, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, a SYRIZA law, where everything can be solved by a Minister's decision and by retroactive legitimacy of expenditure. Obviously, the principle ignored this SYRIZA law, which is why it considered that, in addition to ambiguity, these provisions cannot have a legal basis. Is this also confirmed in Article 6, in our view, that leases signed and expenditure incurred by the HRF or on its behalf until the publication of this law - since when? Since 2015, where did you take over? From Charilaus Trikoupis? Since 2004? - they are considered lawful, without control, and can be taken over and paid at the expense of the State budget. This is the epitome of lawlessness, arbitraryness, opacity! It is about legalising any illegality, retrospective settlement of irregularities, and covering ineligible costs incurred in violation of existing legislation and European funds. This provision is a typical confession to the 'partner' that has been evolving for four years in the management of the refugee, 'part of' which the government now wants to legitimise against taxpayers. That is exactly what we have denounced with our questions and our parliamentary interventions all this time. Article 7 is extended for another year, namely by 31 October 2019, to derogate from the applicable public procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr Papatheodorou, tolerance is now beginning to run out, you have reached twelve and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. In other words, direct awards are legal without publication of a tender notice. That's what people have to hear. That must be heard when we talk about money laundering. It is an exceptional law, an exceptional law, in which you extend until 2019 any designation of unforeseen, while the principle tells you that these are permanent and permanent needs in the management of the refugee and you cannot conclude such contracts. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - we are not simply voting against this bill and most of the amendments, because they are of the same relevance, but we are telling you that we denounce the illegality, the evil you are coming to impose at the last moment to cover your own earlier responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u59	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, and then Mr Arachovitis will speak. You have the floor, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment we have tabled on strengthening the functioning of the Public Administration Inspectorate in order to respond to its increased new tasks and new responsibilities, national and European. The institution of the general public administration inspector is a renowned and particularly important institution for control, transparency, defence of the public interest and the fight against corruption. This institution was set up in 2002, following the establishment of the GRECO Group and in accordance with the decisions of the Council of Europe. The new responsibilities I have mentioned and for which it is necessary to strengthen the functioning of the institution, in order to respond, are first of all that the disciplinary powers of the general public administration inspector have been extended by Law 4478/2017. It also extended its powers to control the 'whereabouts' - and here the staff of the general public inspector's office will be needed in order to meet this new responsibility. The increase in the project involves, on the one hand, increasing the turnover of those who now control, in accordance with the law, the inspector-general, and, on the other hand, the content of the ‘from the outset’ as a whole. The third reason, which is particularly important, is that the Inspection and Control Coordination Body was reactivated. As you know, the CNN has already formed itself since 2000. It is a crucial instrument in which all representatives of public inspection and control bodies gather. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, just one more minute, please. The inspector-general therefore has the coordination of this body, which can and can draw up a strategy for overall coordinated controls and ensure synergy and cooperation with mixed inspection steps. According to the Act of 2017, a presidential decree is foreseen for its operation, which is currently in the process of extradition. There is also the European dimension of strengthening the powers of the general public inspectorate. As you know, the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor and on behalf of our country is the general public administration inspector, where there will also be wider European coordination on these issues. In particular, the proposed provision provides for an increase in the number of inspectors in the general inspector's office. In addition, there is an increase in staff dealing with 'outside' issues. It is clear from the legal certainty that in the mixed steps employees have inquiries. This is something that has already been foreseen, simply clears up about the law, because they are mixed steps. Also, until the Presidential Decree, which I mentioned earlier, has been adopted, the existing provisions will apply to the operation of the Inspection and Control Coordination Body. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is important for the functioning of the public administration, for transparency, for the public interest, for the fight against corruption at European and national level to really strengthen the functioning of the general public administration inspector, which is why I call on all parties to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor. These are two amendments you have tabled, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. There are two amendments. The first is the general number 1864 and special 12, which concerns the protection of direct Community aid under ‘pillar I’, the first pillar of the Common Agricultural Policy, from enforcement instruments, from withholding and netting up to EUR 7,500. This proposed provision concerns almost 90% of farmers and citizens receiving subsidies. It is a provision for which we also have a recommendation from the Citizens' Ombudsman, but which is also valid at the same time without abolishing the protection of the accounts from the irresponsible limit of EUR 1.250 per month. This provision does not prejudice the standing orders to the ELGA and suppliers. The regulations already concluded are also without prejudice. We also need to fill in what's about active confiscations. This is Amendment No 1864, and special number 12. The second amendment is general number 1869 and specific number 14. It is a provision that amends Law 4492/2017, the Law on fresh and vulnerable agricultural products, which makes it more flexible and practicable, so that we immediately proceed to the adoption of the ministerial decision needed to proceed with the implementation of the law. These are a few points that have been identified as necessitating simplification for the producers themselves, but also for the flexibility of the system, so we shall proceed to the necessary corrections. The second point has arrangements for the issues of livestock establishments, in particular in Law 4056/2012, where the deadline for the submission of a request for legalisation of existing establishments until the entry into force of Law 4056/2012 of buildings located near or in residential areas, while at the same time providing for the suspension of any administrative acts carried out in this period. The deadline for issuing authorisations for new livestock establishments is also extended until 30 June, because we are working on the new legislative framework which greatly simplifys the procedures. In other words, it appeared in fact that Law 4056/2012 was quite a disloyal law, despite the efforts made along the way to become more flexible. The third point is to amend the provisions of Presidential Decree 79/2007, where the main aim is to make controls more targeted and effective. That is why we are replacing paragraph (a) of Article 2 with the definitions of concepts, where in the case of 12 - and I would like to pay attention to this - the definitions stipulate that the official veterinarian is a civil servant exclusively. It changes the definition of the competent authority for food of animal origin, which clearly states that it is the Veterinary and Public Health Directorate, while the point of interest we are most concerned about is the targeting and effectiveness of controls through risk analysis. Finally, I want to refer to two further points. We move on to an amendment of Law 4061/2012, which gives an extension for five years to OTA, where public land has been granted free of charge for public purposes, because so far many local authorities have not been able to complete the purpose for which they were granted the land. So we give them the opportunity for another five years to complete their purpose. The last point is the restoration of the formal legality for the commitment of expenditure to the Ministry. But here, because there has also been a debate, I want to make this clear. Changing Articles 65 and 69C of Law 4270/2014, problems were created until the organisational integration of the Directorates-General for Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Rural Development took place. So because the agency could not be adapted in time, there was an incompetence of signing alone at this point. This is also indicated in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which would be critical, to read the entire amendment, which refers to the lack of competence of the competent body and no other shadow exists or anything else. That is why it is so massive that it should also have given rise to an impression in this House, because all the Directorates-General have the corresponding problem. It's something that the State General Accounting Office points out, so it's typical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would also like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u66	I'll give you the floor to ask questions. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u67	Minister, I would like to say first of all that we agree, although this should increase and go even further, on what they wanted, on the EUR 15 000. However, there is a mismatch in relation to the explanatory statement, where the explanatory statement provides that any existing debt arrangements, as well as fixed payment orders or withholdings, should not be affected. That is not in the proposal you tabled, and it is in the explanatory statement. Therefore, this last paragraph of the explanatory statement should be added at the end of the proposed provision in order not to give rise to misunderstandings about the existing debt arrangements and the fixed payment orders. Fixed payment orders are the ones given by farmers - producers to suppliers and especially to cooperatives for their supplies. So if this is left to the banks' interpretation, we'll have a problem. To be added, then, as is in the explanatory statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u68	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u70	Wait. Mrs Manolakou has asked for the floor first. Would you like to ask a question, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u72	I'll give you the floor after Mrs Manolakou. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u73	I am addressing the Minister for Rural Development. Minister, I shall refer to Amendment No 1864/12. As you know, European Community aid is inappropriate as a whole. PASOK passed a law and said that, to get them, they need insurance and tax information. You keep it today, too. Of course, you are talking about 7,500 euros, which will be irresponsible. Why are you not referring to the total amount? We shall vote for it, of course, even though it is a trap, as the colleague said before. In other words, we have a duty differently. With regard to the other amendment, with the amendment of No 4492/2017, fines to producers for non-declaration of their transactions remain - what fines you put remain - while, unlike large-industrial and large-industrial companies, fines are being reduced. Why? You are silenced, but it seems if anyone reads the draft law. You are not referring to this in the explanatory statement, but it seems clear. Secondly, in Presidential Decree 79/2007, which you amend, you say 'target checks'. I beg your pardon, but this is where you abolish the obligation for the State to carry out at least once a year controls on high-risk establishments such as food business of animal origin, slaughterhouses, fish auctions, cutting up of fishery products, etc. In essence, this amendment eliminates state control. I ask you: isn't that dangerous to public health? In addition, there are deficiencies in both veterinarians and other scientists, whom you must hire.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u75	Minister, I have heard you say about the legalisation of expenditure. Indeed, it is an impressive fact today that we are legitimising the expenditure of the Ministry of Rural Development of EUR 445 million, half a billion euro, not 500,000, such as those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is the whole period of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, that is, since 2015, for which the undertaking decisions have been signed by an unauthorised body, as you have said, with this cause. That does not mean that it is a reasonable procedure. I would like to stress this and answer us. Because, indeed, you're right. Reading the relevant amendment, we see that the organisational integration of the Directorate-General for Economic Services has not proceeded, despite the 2014 Act. I also know the Ministry of Rural Development and personally. This procedure has not gone any further. Is there any plan for the House not to have such costs retrospectively legalised by formal problems of unauthorised institutions? Why did the organisational reconstruction not go ahead? When will it proceed? Do you have a plan? Because it is really impressive that at the present time half a billion euros is legalised because of an unauthorised instrument. Secondly, with regard to the other amendment - and you will reply to me first - I would also like to inform the House that when I was a special secretary of the Ministry of Rural Development - we must not confiscate the money from subsidies - Chiolos, the Commissioner of the European Union, when we put a question to him he answered that European money cannot be set aside for use by the state as a matter of urgency. And not only EUR 7,500, but also more, we should take care at some point. And here it seems how wrong New Democracy's proposal was at first, when it was taken over, to offset the debts of Community aid. Community aid cannot, therefore, be offset in the same way by the State, otherwise there is a deficit of competition in relation to the European countries. We must keep this and strengthen it with another legislative framework from now on, because that is in line with European legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Arachovitis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. To make it clear that subsidies are indeed inappropriate, they are not offset. There is no netting of subsidies while they are still in the hands of OPEKEPE and submitted to the account. The problem is once they are submitted to an account, which for alpha or beta reasons, for debts to third parties, public insurance funds, is seized. This empty law is now being solved. And you're right, Mr. Theocharopoulos, that's exactly where the problem is. The EUR 7 500 regulation concerns 90% of farmers, all small and medium-sized producers. If someone owes and gets higher subsidies, the track over 7,500 and the track over 1,250 euros per month can be netted out and that remains. That is why we are talking about protecting subsidies from seizures and it is clear. As far as your question about regulations and standing orders is concerned, the wording is such - and I will tell you exactly the point - where in the legislative process we have seen there is no question of interpretation by anyone and by any bank. This is the last paragraph of the act where exactly what the explanatory statement says is drawn up there. There is no need for it to enter the body of the device after that wording. That is the view of the jurisprudence. I don't think he's causing a problem. It's clear. That is the opinion of the authors. Now, with regard to Presidential Decree 79/2007, Mrs Manolakou, regular checks are in place. Regular checks shall not be affected. Planned controls exist and are carried out normally and the obligation for exceptional checks is not abolished, otherwise. There is a risk analysis, a risk analysis, where checks are more targeted to be more effective. There's nothing going on. Regulars remain, the emergencyes are targeted. Why do you know something? For me - and we were talking about it today with GEOTE, which was in my office - it is more important to have findings than to do audits. If you're going to do checks and don't have any findings, you're actually giving discharge, forgive me. That's why the checks, when they're done, should work. That's what we're interested in above all. Mr Theoharopoulos, what you say about formal legitimacy is the fact that formal legitimacy is now restored and there is no shadow on it. You have rightly put it because of the lack of competence of the instrument in the signature. By 2014, before the entry into force of Law 4270/2014, it was done in a certain way. From there on, there needs to be administrative reconstruction, which has actually been done for 2018, and that is why it is not about expenditure in 2018. It was until 2017. The administration has been adjusted. We're done. Thank you very much. I urge you, of course, to vote in favour of both amendments because I think that everything is positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u78	All right, thanks to the Minister. We continue with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. The next one is Mr. Panayotaros, a special speaker from the Golden Dawn, and then Mr. Kalogerou will be placed, who I see in the ministerial seats, for the amendment of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Migration Policy, as you say. We consider it to be a bill from the Avanta Ministry of Illegal Immigration and Illegal Invasion in our country. And as for the crowns of various people who were saying, they say, and will continue to say later that there are no illegal immigrants, but they are immigrants, they are refugees or something else, we answer them with the official documents, such as the "Lexic of the Common Neo-Hellenic" of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 1998, as the European Union itself says, using the terms of "lathing immigrant" and "left immigrant" in official documents of both legal and political content. These two words are included in a multitude of documents of the European Union. For example, for the Minutes, the relevant references to both the dictionary and the official documents of the European Union. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also submit a large number of legislation and articles from the Athens Bar Association, where illegal immigrants are referred to as illegal immigrants. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are also tabling the communication from ELMEA Lesvos, which mentions why illegal immigrants say to them "death immigrants". [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also submit Article 76 of the Criminal Code, which mentions illegal immigrants as illegal immigrants. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned article of the Criminal Code, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also have other official documents, such as Article 79 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to know what we are talking about. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are tabling a explanatory statement from the SYRIZA Government, where illegal immigration mentions it as illegal immigration and not as something else. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the Minutes the explanatory statement mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will testify for the Practicals - keep it and anyone who wants from SYRIZA can get it souvenir - a T-shirt from the Greek Police Illegal Immigration Service. It's official service, so it's mentioned, so it exists. We're giving it to you. You can take it to wear, if you want, because only that way can you feel loved in Lesvos. [[At this point, MP Ilias Panagiotaros submits for the Minutes the above T-shirt from the Greek Police Illegal Immigration Service, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practices Directorate of the Parliament.]] We are also putting forward what FRONTEX head of this taxi company, which takes the illegal immigrants and brings them home and says: at last, expel illegal immigrants. He said it more chic. We are also putting this forward for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even your ally, the President of Egypt, Mr. Sisi, said just the day before yesterday that illegal immigrants must return to their homes and fight for them. I'm saying this to see that you're in contrast to the whole world. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And your friend Dalai Lama, whom you also call upon him, says that illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants, should return to their homelands and fight and create for them. I'm telling you this so we can know what's going on. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You brought a bill in the form of an emergency so that you could wash off a number of things, my orders to resolve urgent and exceptional circumstances. But, in fact, this is a bill, which is the final emphasis of all kinds of paid employees of Soros, of the various non-governmental organisations, of all kinds of nationalists, stateless people, of illegal immigrants, of the various drug dealers, who have found their pleasure in hot spots and not just because, afterward, all of them go to metropolitan Greece, of all kinds of cucumbers, who have found joy in their arms with everything that is going on in our homeland, of human organs traffickers - the complaints about the misery that is taking place are too many, and you, the humanists, close your eyes, because they suit you for the rest - the masters, of all kinds of illegal people. Above all, this bill is a bill - joy of darantiers, big-workers and various laundry. The previous ones told you. billions of euros from the pockets of the Greek people leave to get into the pockets of all these daveries and to do the grace of the Organisation of Muslim Nations, the United Nations figurative. It's a molasses without end, without limit. Within six articles you're trying to legitimize it against complaints, audits, investigations, anything else. It is a laundry - the previous ones have said - which may also remind us of a Siemens laundry and our difference with previous speakers who disagree and will vote against this bill is that you are talking only about massabuka. We are not only talking about massabuka, but also about illegalism, illegal invasion, the violent change of population in our country, where hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens as legal immigrants go abroad so that they can survive and take up millions of illegal immigrants. Where are these complaints at the time of Mr. Buddour - your own man was - as Secretary-General of the First Reception? And what he didn't say. "Kitches" said, "men" told him. But you're trying to bury them. Remember the complaints made by retired General Eliopoulos that you put him in Lesvos or somewhere else - I don't remember - that he also said signs and monsters? Not to say about the Ice Bay research that has ordered these funds and you are trying through these six articles to stop it, legalising all of them all. Whatever you do, gentlemen, whatever you vote for, because you think you'll always be in the government, but your beans are counted, you're done, anyway. The mining of globalisation ends and the beginning of the end of this mining was this shameful agreement of the United Nations in Marrakesh, where our Prime Minister first tried to support it, to vote for it, and to say that "we give you everything, land and water, whatever you want, in order to bring more into our homeland. Of course, 'no' in this treaty said the largest and most serious nations of the world, making it virtually inactive. And it is certain that other states will follow. We see what is happening in Belgium, where the government collapsed because the Prime Minister voted in favour of this treaty, but the people are against everything that is happening. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, there has never been an immigration policy, quite simply because Greece has never asked for immigration. We have always had unemployed, millions at this particular time. It is a policy to legitimise the invasion. And this racist policy against the Greeks can only stop with the Golden Dawn. Because we are only saying things with their name, starting with the rename of this sinful ministry, this crime of the Ministry, from the Ministry of Migration Policy to the Ministry of Prosecution, the fight against illegal immigration and swindling. I would once again like to present to you the proposal for a law of the Golden Dawn on combating illegal immigration where a number of problems have been solved in our country. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above proposal for a law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If God ever claims us - and it seems that he weighs on everything that is going on in our homeland - when we have the possibility, there will be a check on all the legal documents of illegal immigrants or illegal immigrants or tell them as you, ladies and gentlemen, about how they were legitimized, when they came by jumping the yard, in this country. Deportation even of citizens of the European Union who live in the country over three months and do not work, because that is what the European Union's legislation says. The Schengen Treaty should be checked and it should finally be checked in this country who enters our borders. Everyone can't come in and do whatever they want, whatever they like, and be unpunished. Abolition of all the ministerial decisions, circulars and all those relating to the free use of all kinds of public infrastructure by illegal immigrants or whatever you want to say to them. No funds from a state body in favour of illegal immigration. Separate inspection and prohibition of numerous non-governmental organisations that are soluble in terms of the Greek nation. Those who are located within the Greek territory will not be clear in sites of the Moria type or elsewhere, but in closed detention areas outside residential tissues with absolutely human living conditions. Because you so-called humanists have them stacked, and they're with the drones, with the garbage and all that. You who invoke humanity, as you say, or anything else. Immediate examination of asylum applications. And those who are not entitled - and obviously the overwhelming majority are not entitled - should be deported immediately. Also, anyone who is illegal, whether or not he has taken asylum, should also be deported immediately and not entering prisons, eating, drinking for free, sleeping for a while and going out and doing what it is to do. These and everything else is required to make our country free and Greek again, so that we can get our homeland back. In order for all of this and much more to be done, each should assume its responsibilities, starting with the self-government elections, where in the Municipality of Athens the "Greek Dawn for Athens" with Elias Cashiri and Attica the "Greek Dawn for Attica" with Ilias Panagiotara and the Golden Dawn on the central political scene has the know how to make our neighborhoods safe, Greek and beautiful for everyone. As for the amendments that have been tabled and which are constantly coming, to understand the extent of racism against the Greeks, I will only mention two at once. Amendment - Addendum to the draft law: 'During the proposed regulation various economic uncertainties are settled'. What we were talking about. Laundry endless, legalization - supposedly so you think you're doing - by the side street. Another amendment: ‘The proposed amendment regulates the question of covering the costs of the transfer of minor pupils to school units throughout the school year 2017-2018.’ He paid for all illegal immigrants! We are voting against this bill and its six articles. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will be at the end. There are two, three, which we too will vote in favour of or vote 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u80	We will give the floor to Mr Kalogerou for the amendment of the Ministry of Justice. Then we'll give the floor to Mr. Pittsorla. These are two amendments tabled. We're starting with Mr. Kaloger. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Our amendment has seven provisions and I will explain why we have had to table this amendment, as we are at the end of the year. The first provision, in the first paragraph, relates to the practice of judges and prosecutors in the twenty-third series of the National School of Judges. The duration is set in two months. In consultation with the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and with the leadership of the courts, it was considered that the two-month duration is not sufficient and is extended for another five months. The total will be seven. The two months will now end at the end of December, which is why this provision is being tabled. The second provision relates to arrangements for the National School of Judiciary. In consultation with the school and the school president, we are actually trying to resolve issues in order to make the school's function more orderly. The training of judges, their continuing training, which is provided at the school's headquarters in Thessaloniki and in Komotini, can also be provided under this arrangement in the headquarters of the local prosecutors. Specific training programmes are also made for judiciary officials concerned with issues of economic and financial interest. These programmes are also addressed to judges of the Armed Forces Judiciary. These programmes must begin at the beginning of the year, which is why this amendment is being tabled. The next provision concerns subsidisation in the training of judges and legal persons governed by public law. This also concerns subsidies for training programmes that start with the new year. The fourth provision is a provision which is also in consultation with judicial associations. It concerns the extension of validity in the list of successful peace-keeping competitions. This table expires on 31-12-2018. We therefore have to provide for the vacancies of peacekeepers to be filled by 31 December 2020. It is recalled that it concerns the list of successful ones published on 9 February 2016. A new notice would create new delays and new problems. This extension is therefore given to fill gaps in the positions of the peacekeepers. The next provision concerns the functioning of the FIFG in order to resolve issues relating to infrastructure and building problems in court buildings in the country. This provision makes it possible to finance the construction of semi-finished buildings and to reform and develop buildings suitable for use as courts, a matter which concerns both legal associations and legal associations. An example is the building of Rallios in Piraeus, as well as other courts in the country. The latter provision relates to the PPP project, to the issues of electronic justice and to the integrated system relating to political and criminal proceedings, in view of the fact that the specific phase of the project is received at the beginning of the year. A project management team shall be set up in order to record and resolve issues. The device describes how this group is formed. They are the Ministry's internal team with the Ministry's officials, with judicial officers and so on. Sub-groups are included in this group, which will work to resolve issues. There will also be a legal group in order to ensure the functioning of the IACC. Finally, there is one provision which is also made in consultation with the head of the courts and the judicial associations. In view of the phenomenon of draws of the same judges on the disciplinary boards of judges, a limit is given that they cannot participate in new draws by those who have participated in disciplinary boards during the previous two years. There is also a corresponding provision with Law 4055/2012 concerning inspectors in criminal and political justice. It is therefore a similar provision. I shall conclude, Mr President. A parliamentary amendment has been tabled, to which I should like to refer with your permission, by Mr Papaphilipou, with a special number of 1885. Parliament's amendments are accepted by the accelerating the bill Minister, Mr Vitsas. However, this concerns the matter of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, the submission of statements 'wherever you are concerned'. The General Secretariat of Information Systems has called for more time to complete the reception system of statements in light of the law passed in October 2018. In other words, it takes twenty days or a month more. This parliamentary amendment concerns the date of the submission of declarations. It will start from 18-2-2019 instead of 4-1-219 and will be completed on 31-3-2019. Because it is the responsibility of the Ministry, I imagine the Minister for Migration Policy will accept it, but we, too, say that we have knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u82	In any case, it is appropriate to postpone this amendment with a view to the implementation of the law. This will obviously be supported by Mr. Vitsats.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u83	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Mr. Pittsorlas has the floor. It is a good request, Mr Minister, as soon as possible, if it is easy for you, because there are three amendments that you are tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u85	Don't forget the Defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u86	Yes, one of the Ministers will come to support the two amendments. Mr. Pittsorla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u87	I shall refer to the two amendments which deal with the normalisation of staff of the Greek Sugar Industry. We are in the process of preparing a proposal for the resolution programme of the Greek Sugar Industry. I believe that we will have tabled this programme in the course of the year. In order to facilitate the resolution process, we are tabling the amendments. On the basis of these amendments we give some of the staff currently employed - about a hundred and a half-four employees - who are over fifty-six years old and who can build up a pension right within the next five years to join a programme of the unemployment subsidy OAS in order to be able to retire. To some a hundred more people we allow other public services to be transferred to other public services. With the resolution programme a large proportion of the staff will remain in industry. However, I repeat that, in order to facilitate the submission and implementation of the resolution programme, we call for the adoption of these two amendments. For all workers who will be subject to these arrangements, it is essential that they work for at least five years in industry. It is not about workers who might have entered now. As a prerequisite, therefore, over fifty-six years of age for the pension scheme and the rest of the transport facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Pittsorla.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u90	You have the floor, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u91	Minister, since the information you have given and the figures, it is obviously about all workers today in the Greek Sugar Industry. In other words, he enters the Greek sugar industry. That's it! There won't be anything. Nera! Of course, as far as the workers are concerned, we are going to vote on this because these people must not be left out. But it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more, it's no more. That's what you decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u93	Here you go, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Admittedly, the Greek Sugar Industry is now deadlocked by the lack of development policy by the government four years now that it has been responsible for the country's governance. We certainly agree with the amendment, because it is not the workers of this multi-faceted industry who are to blame. But we have heard nothing, Minister, about what is going to happen with the Greek sugar beet producers. What about the fact that the national economy is losing a strategic agricultural product? In 2019, the wood crop was lost. The rest of the remaining three factories, which worked until recently, will be shut down. What is the future of the Greek Sugar Industry? You must also answer Greek farmers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Jelloney, you understand the question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u96	The draft formulated by the Government and promoted is a plan to restructure the industry with a view to continuing its operation and production of sugar. That is what we tell the Greek customs producers. Agriculture cannot continue, as can industry, if we continue in the same way. As you referred to the present Government, at the end of 2014 the Greek Zacharis industry owed 210 million. These 210 million debts were formed at a time when sugar prices were quite high in relation to today and could also have profits, but there was a mismanagement of the way this company was running over the past decades. This issue needs to be resolved, and in a radical way. Efforts were made at the beginning of government service to continue as they were. Unfortunately, it did not pay off and it could not pay off. We are going to a radical solution so that we can ensure the continued cultivation in Greece and the production of sugar. The program that will be submitted in a few days will prove what I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the Achaea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u98	The amendments are almost twice as much as the articles in the bill. This is the bill, these are the amendments. Take conclusions and say it so that you can have an image. You have probably brought it through different issues, objects of different ministries without being discussed or invited to inform. Of course, the New Democracy did the same now. But that is not an alibi, that the previous ones did. The Minister just now told us that you have passed until the final closure of the Greek Sugar Industry. You put a tombstone with a boulder. Of course, the previous ones had started it, and the European Union's policy had started it. What are you doing? You're asking for investments after and you're still wondering why the farm goes out with the tractors on the streets. Yes, we will import sugar completely, while the country's possibilities are even to export. That is why you are using the form of emergency. It's not about immigration, it's about mocking politics. In addition, the Minister said so in his speech in committee, there are many issues which need to be closed and related to economic issues and performances. This is urgent. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] It is therefore not about the acute problems of refugees and immigrants who are large, especially in the winter living in tragic conditions in Samos and Lesvos. The older and especially the children are locked in tents with mud, under the rain and cold, and you have not taken measures. Samos, you said the number. It's three thousand eighty-sixty-two-two-two-two. However, the capacity is only for six hundred and forty - eight people. There are scenes in the fields. Five hundred people who have taken asylum cannot move to the mainland because there are no accommodation places. There are many protests both from immigrants and from island residents, because there are problems. It is fair to move to structures of mainland Greece and close the hot spots. However, immigrants must also be transported from the islands to the mainland, as well as asylum services. In addition, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, in an announcement, calls for emergency measures from the Government. But nothing. In the CYTs, conditions are difficult, miserable, conditions have deteriorated, while there is a shortfall in housing in the countryside as well. These are the results of the European Union-Turkey Agreement and you cannot be satisfied and speak of regular provisions and that you do not have a magic wand. As regards Article 1, we agree with the setting up of human and decent facilities and not of camps. In fact, we have repeatedly proposed the transformation and appropriate modulation of untapped public buildings. It is, however, part of the policy of caging, but also of the involvement of private bodies that you are supporting. In Article 3, there's a hammer. Incorporating the Greek-Austria Convention on the Mobility of Young People, which, you say, will combine recreation with employment. Basically, they favour the profits of the big hotel owners for cheap staff entitled "Work and Holidays". There are announcements and press releases of Australia's trade unions and mass operators, who have been against the contract, because, they say, this is what business groups want to be able to ensure flexible cheap staff anywhere. Mobility therefore exploits youth unemployment in Greece, which exceeds 50%, but also in Australia, which has exceeded 20%, while working conditions in both countries are characterised by individual contracts, undeclared and mispaid work, hard conditions. In fact, there has been a grid of businesses - immigration agents are said - that are treasured by the need for young people to work. In Australia there are about three and a half thousand such agents with a very large turnover. That's what you make easier. It is also established that part of forest extinguishation is to be passed on to individuals. In Article 4, you are costly burdening immigrants and, indeed, the so-called 'legislative' even more, paying the funds for all kinds of residence permits. In Article 5, we recall the issue with the NGO "Praksis", which put a padlock in danger of throwing a hundred unaccompanied minors and a hundred fifty people on the road. Refugees become a ball from one NGO to another. We, Minister, ask for your commitment that no child, at least one hundred and forty, will be sent to camp and no employee of Praksis will be fired. In Article 7 you prejudge that 2019 will be able to conclude contracts by way of derogation in the name of emergency and emergency, while step up once again by the end of next year and effectively legalise these unacceptable fast track procedures for examining asylum applications and appeals. This process applies in the case of arrivals and asylum applications at the border, namely tens of thousands of refugees who are currently trapped in the country, but also in the vast majority of refugees and immigrants who will be spending the next period. This has been condemned by the relevant bodies. Article 6 stipulates that leases made until the law has been published, without complying with specific procedures, shall be considered lawful. Also, the contracts concluded at the end of this year are extended until the end of next year due to urgent and urgent need, and all that when the uprooted live in unacceptable conditions in the islands' Cyts. In essence, what is your difference in the management of European funds? We have never voted in favour of them, because we believe that the biggest scandal is those funds to support caging in Greece. They support the European Union's reactionary agreements with Euroregulations. They do not relieve refugees or breathe the islanders. Instead, they experience terrible and dangerous situations. The funds are, in fact, redemption in order for thousands of people to remain locked in our country and to live in difficult conditions. The fact is that on the back of refugees - migrants, the government and other parties are trying to set up false separatist lines. Confrontation is exclusively for the management of funds or charges for incompetence or incompetence, to hide that you are all voting together and supporting decisions by the European Union for more repression and less rights in refugee. You support the European Union-Turkey agreement and essentially double caging. As regards the UN Immigration Pact, it is not a human approach to immigration what the Prime Minister said, namely that it is a conclusion to regulated and controlled immigration, but is about the welfare of capitalist profits and even greater repression of so-called illegal immigrants and not illegal immigrants, as the Golden Dawn provoked to hide racist hatred. I conclude by saying that we are of course voting against the bill. However, we will be voting in favour of what is positive for workers, even to the slightest extent, such as the two amendments for workers in the Greek Sugar Industry, so that they do not remain undisturbed. We are voting in favour of the EUR 7,500 inconsistency for farmers, although incomprehensible is European Community aid as a whole. But you're not mocking the farm with such terrain. You end up with them and the cost of production is high. You don't let them live. They're right to take the tractors off the streets and we're with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u99	I left to Mrs Manolakos three minutes longer because she also covers the position of the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u100	We're all up to twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u101	Oh, okay then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u102	The Bureau was very good today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u103	So we're progressing well. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start a little differently. Whether or not Immigration is urgent or not, it shows the fact that very few days ago, in Marrakesh, sixty-four countries approved, they said "yes" to the World Migration Pact. This is where I want to remind you of a number. It is not a single million or two million, but it is two hundred and fifty million people on the planet at a time when for many reasons they are moving and potential immigrants. We are talking about 3.4% of the world's population. This is a tangible proof of whether it's an emergency involving the Ministry of Migration Policy or not. I would like to say something that matters very much here. I would like to believe that Gutières, in other words, the UN Secretary, is not a friend of the government, but he has called on the countries that voted for, the sixty-four - and we will see what they have not been absent, as it is important - not to give in to fear or false accounts of immigration, underlining the efforts made to achieve this pact. Speaking on the accession of the Conference, he denounced the numerous lies concerning a text, etc. Countries which have not agreed, are specific. It is Hungary, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and some others, and of course the United States of Mr Donald Trump. On the contrary, Germany, despite the pressure it had, was in the 164 countries that we are. Second point, which shows the urgency because it has been critically criticised, because this bill does not sit down to discuss it. I would like to remind you here: the flow of economic migrants - not illegal immigrants - has increased by 30% from the sea. Here I would like to give a little parentheses and say that little Ailan, the kid who was found covered on a beach and his photo returned to the whole world, if you think he's an illegal immigrant or irregular, etc., I'm giving it to you. There's been a 300% increase in the flow of Evros. You know that? We have 300% increase in the flow in Evros and it is to the honour of the Minister, who is not in favour of the exceptional procedures at all, but he confesses it. And here is an example I would like some to remember when they criticize it in this Chamber. It says so. There is this fact. I am critical - the living room, I say this criticism, forgive me the expression - that there have been no international competitions. So for the food, for two years now, it has still been at the Court of Auditors. Still! What's going on? Do these people eat or not eat in the two years when the international competition is at the Court of Auditors? I think the answer is self-evident. And I have heard another harsh criticism, and indeed, attributes, I have this conversation here from Mr Varvitsiotis: 'We will stop immigrants at sea'. What exactly does Mr Varvitsiotis mean here? Because he should know that when he crosses the line of the sea borders a boat is torn, and people are at sea. What exactly does the poet mean when he says what he says? I say it because we have to be careful. Let's go down. There was an incredible noise of irregularities in the large sum allegedly managed by the Greek Government, an incredible number of EUR 1.600,000. I'm sorry to say, you don't read and you're trying to create impressions. So listen. The representative of the committee, Mrs Natasa Bertos, on 26-9-2018, said: "No mismanagement of funds, whatever form, has been found so far." A complaint made by NGOs, the 'Solidarity now' - and OLAF did well - is not about the funds managed by the Greek Government. Sounds terrible and terrible. It's one of the fantastic scandals. It's five to six, I have it in front of me, but it's not here, I don't have time. Because they've said communication helps. Now whether others play with regular scandals, we have to find something, and so the scandals of immigration have also been found. The Greek Government managed 354.093.000. And I will inform you that the Ministry of National Defence also took credit for the 90-year-olds, which have been answered by the Deputy Minister, and for the rest, managed by the Ministry of Migration Policy. In five audits that have been carried out, there has been absolute transparency. I do not want to analyse you right here in detail - I have it in front of me - where the money went and how the Greek Government managed it. However, it remains on television - which we will see - that 1600 000 000 are managed and given no reason. Yeah? Prove it. And nothing else, I would like to ask those who are so comfortable in adopting such scandals: are they being messed with by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees? Are they messing with the International Organisation for Migration? If they're gonna tell us. We don't have anything with them. Their right is to manage the funds as they think they do. And if there's really any irregularity, then let them be searched by those who give the money. Let's go down, because I think it's a big, very big issue, which, as we say, shouldn't be going through 'poor posins'. Because I have heard the tons come up very much here today and in committee, with the criticism of the urgency - and I think the arguments were convincing - I say again that in Marrakesh a few days ago, sixty-four countries ratified the pact. We have 30% increase in the islands, 300% increase in Evros. If this isn't an emergency, then what is it? I've heard things about irregularities and so forth. I want to make some reports. Dieter Kempf is the President of the Association of German Industries, just like our BSE. What does that man say? And he's a man of pluralism. I don't suppose this has anything to do with the government. It says that the main indicators in Greece are all upwards: the rate of growth is one, the rates of unemployment two, the trade figures, the state budget, the export indicators, all this is developing positively. Tourism also boasts energy Greece becomes an international hub. That is what the President of the German industry says. Even the holy bank of capitalism called "WALL STREET JOURNAL" - I don't imagine she has allied with this government - since she has abused - to forgive me the expression - almost all of the European Union, says "the only optimistic point of forecasts 4-5 days ago for the last three months in the eurozone is Greece, which, although much of the weakest member of the euro area, has, however, doubled the rate of growth during the same period." These are the excesses which are heard in this Chamber in a plump. And I come to today's bill. I have some time, Mr President, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u105	Time's over. You have one, one and a half minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u106	It became a great mess yesterday because the Government, he says, dared the Competition Committee to put Mrs Thanos yesterday into this great mess. I didn't believe in my ears with what I was listening to. Not even too much and abusive to be, that kind of noise wouldn't happen. So here I would like to remind those who do not know that for a long time the Competition Committee has been playing a decisive role in the healthy competition we have forgotten about for many decades. Mr Kyritsaki's contract - with which I have nothing, I respect him - has been renewed twice. In other words, he sat down for another five years and was close to keeping his term of office ten years. I do not care that Mr Hatzidakis proposed, nor do I care that he, at least, kept low tones. He said that "if independence of the principle is maintained, the government is entitled...". He obviously knows the laws and the constitution. So I didn't understand why it was a big mess. If you have another view of how its president and all the members should be appointed to this particular independent authority, you propose a new constitutional arrangement. But until then you must be obliged to accept the Constitution. And since we are talking about independence of this principle, I would like to remind you that the rapporteur for a number of years has been the husband of a New Democracy MEP, who was, at the time, not a Member and was then elected. In addition, appointed as a member of the Competition Committee for years and a person who has been independent, we had in this principle a Secretary-General for Industry and External Trade to the Governments of New Democracy. Another gentleman, who was the director of the office of the chairman of the Committee on Competition - I am not saying names, I have them in front of me - when Mr Mitsotakis took over the Minister for Administrative Reform in the Government, he also took over Mr Mitsotakis' advisor. At the same time, however, it is Mr Kyritsaki's right hand. That's the committee's independence! In other words, this morning Mr. Tada was the right hand of the President and the Vice-Presidents and took note of everyone, and this afternoon he advised Mr. Mitsotakis. And when Mr Kyritsaki's term of office was renewed again in 2013 - and because he played PASOK at that time - there were two ladies, one who was Mr Papandreou's advisor, - I am not saying names - and the other was advisor to Mr Chrysochoidis and then advisor to Mr Stournaras. That's the kind of independence he had! And one more thing to get this story over with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u107	But you too, because you've taken five more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs. Thanou in many decades has never given any right. It never belonged to any party. He had no political activity. If anyone has anything to lie about, say it. No one was found. When I say nobody, I mean anyone. The fact that she was a legal counsellor unpaid - look out, it mattered, she was unpaid, precisely because she was a ruthless judge - in the Prime Minister's office is her great crime. I say, therefore, that some are shaking the real transparency, because the funds that have been played are not just cosmetics, it is not just the press cartel, it is energy, it is building businesses and so on. The competition committee hid billions under the drawer. This is what someone will have to bring them to the surface once. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u109	It has been distributed - I will leave you some time to read it - an amendment that Mr Kouvelis will support. I therefore take advantage of calling Mr. Psariano to Step up with the speakers. Then Mr. Kouvelis will speak and then Mr. Vitsats will speak. Take a look at the amendment, so that you can have an image when Mr Kouvelis presents it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u110	I, Mr President, when am I going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u111	You, Mr. Cammene, will wait. You're just a speaker. You are an independent MP, but you do not belong to special speakers. You have registered with the normal speakers. It's four, five colleagues. Here, Mr. Fisherian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. The last one has come, the warmest amendment in our hands, which the Minister responsible will soon develop. She's still warm, like the cookies, just got out of the oven. We expect the bill to be passed for a further thirty amendments, because we have put in a washing machine. We'll put dust and liquid detergent. Then we'll also put softeners, but at the end, don't forget to put the laundry program on both whistle and dry. Why? The government, this progressive Left-wing government of Panos Kammenos, defeated the germans and the other ethnic traitors who brought the amendments with the bags, and now they come with the containers and tanks by sea many times. Fourteen - so many I have counted so far - amendments which we cannot read either their summary or the titles. In other words, Mr President, only the titles of the amendments now, here, by addressing you, if I wish to read - only the titles, not their content - I will need about 20 minutes. Let's get the laundry working. Why? Because most of them are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, spending, etc., which has become or is to be done, they are from the Ministry of National Defence, they are from the Ministry of Rural Development. It's for all ministries. We're closing packages. In particular, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy which comes in, which deals with a very serious issue, should be discussed in full with the Chamber and for a long time because we had and have had a lot to say. Because our actions and omissions have brought to this point where we can say that it is out of control the refugee and the issue of immigration policy. When the doors were opened four, five years ago, when the currents began - mainly from Syria, but after the countries of Maghreb, North-West Africa, and Afghanistan, Pakistan and Asia - we said that the refugee from countries that are in war, the migrant, the illegal migrant, who was known as an "immigrant" from some and were growing out that he is not, while he is a smuggler. So when we said that each category of refugees or immigrants - economic migrants or others - the previous ministers of the present, today, want a different policy, we were told that. 'Okay, people are too,' like we thought they were nothing boxes. Since then, four, five years have passed and the reception and hospitality of refugees have been over, the situation is tragic. Obviously, there is a huge business in this matter both in our country and in other countries. But here, he's out of control. In this draft law that we should now discuss in detail, we have amendments to all the other Ministries - we have, for example, an amendment to the expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which took place from 1 January 2017 to 11 December 2018 - which give rise to a terrible sense, because there are phrases everywhere in the recitals, such as 'demands and other bureaucratic problems', or 'commitments and suspensions received either later than the adoption of a decision on expenditure' or 'and the realisation of the same expenditure', explanatory reports on payments, transfers, appointments, settlements, restorations of customer relations, payments for other services, supplies of goods and capital equipment. These phrases are mentioned in all the amendments, almost all of the ministries. I have here the ones that had come before the last one, the warm one, the last one, this "cookie" is here. It's Christmastime. I do not have time to read to you, not the summaries, interpretations, explanations and explanations, but the titles. So I put it aside and read a explanatory statement. It is very short, Mr President. Half the year I will eat him on the amendments, only to raise matters from outside. "With the proposed arrangement, various economic uncertainties, arising from the requirement to respond quickly to the constantly evolving reality of the services of the Ministry of National Defence..." - the Minister of National Defence is unfortunately not here, because somewhere he flies and is preparing to level out various short islands - "... to address the needs of refugees and migrants in the fields of food, accommodation, transportation and health care..." - etc. - "... repayment of the debts of the refugee crisis, irrespective of the financial instrument for the implementation of the expenditure concerned..." - see, irrespective of the financial instrument for the implementation of the relevant expenditure - "... by ensuring the repayment of the beneficiaries, the market liquidity and the smooth transition of the procedures carried out in normality". It is an amendment that wants to bring these issues into regularity. And now we have to put it in the laundry, plunge it, dry it, and get on the roof and spread it, so it's normal. All this has to be done very quickly these days. And I just have one more minute to explain that all these issues must be closed off by the wise people, who I think listens to us now. And come Christmas and New Years and approaching 2019, which will be a very critical year for our country. I would like to say at the moment a bill - after having closed with the "accidents" and laundry - that four years after the refugee crisis took place, the government again invokes emergency situations, with a view, through this bill - not seventy-seven-six amendments! - to extend for another year the direct award procedures by way of derogation from any existing legislation for which direct awards, even the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts has expressed - and expresses - strong objections, disagreements and objections. Potami and those of us who have spoken from the middle space - I would say - of counter-population, following the status of inefficient, opaque and unreported funding management for the refugee problem, had tabled the first question in September and ten days ago a second question. We still haven't got any convincing answers. Instead of responses, this bill came with fast-track procedures together with two hundred-seven-seven-six main amendments - I will say that and I will say this again - which must be difficult to close and packets that have left we do not know where and not even how much, of course. Because most of them, you know, are secret funds. You can't all know them, whoever, i.e., find out where secret funds are going. We are suspected of extending this regime now. A few days before the introduction of the bill, our party has already raised the matter by asking a question. The bill is essentially an extensive amendment that comes to be voted on in the urgent procedure - as we say in my village - which is a friendly tactic of this government, a much better tactic than all the other tactics and practices of the government. And that is the government, which has the most such parliamentary procedures so far. It's broken all the records! I will say, from the eight articles of this bill, only in Article 3, we can find positive points and not vote against it. The bill will vote against it as a whole, as will the other 7 articles. So the questions raised in the bill are as follows: How much does the specific certificate of legal residence for a person do not know about it? What's the rent cost for every person we don't know. The question is, what were the reasons why the proceedings have not been complied with so far and all the costs need to be legitimised with this fast track bill, has not been answered and will not be answered. With regard to compensation for the members of the 12 independent Appeals Committees of the Authority at the cost of EUR 110,000 for two months, we have not seen it in analysis and we do not know exactly what is going on. What services did they offer? How many people have been employed in total and how many hours have each person been employed? How many people are employed in all this business, in what locations and how many? What are the various non-state organisations, which - not to say benefit - are they working?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Fisherman, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude very soon, Mr President. As far as rent expenditure is concerned, only between the beginning of 2018 and today we have one and a half million. And it's very possible that in a short time we're rereading lists with new contracts. We have EUR 5.8 million for an extension of contracts and EUR 6.1 million for the recruitment of three hundred and fifty other people, EUR 110,000 for the members of the independent appeal committees - which we said - for a period of two months, while the criteria and procedures under which all of this is done are almost unknown, undeclared, undeclared and undeclared many times. In conclusion, this draft law is legalised and circumvented - it is written in the bill itself - all legal procedures. I repeat: Article 6 of this draft law legitimizes the circumvention of all legal procedures. The term ‘by way of derogation from the legislation in force...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Fisherman, please, close. I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u117	You've taken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u118	The comrade, the other guy, took me a lot longer than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u119	Uh, but now, look across the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u120	I count the minutes. Some ministers and Prime Ministers and various other presidents, instead of twenty minutes, speak an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u121	All right, let the Chiefs and Prime Ministers now. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u124	The term 'by way of derogation from the legislation in force' can be used in an extremely specific case and with sufficient documentation, otherwise it nullifies laws, which we are obviously writing to them. And when we write them and vote on them, then we rewrite them and do not apply them or open windows and balconies, by way of derogation from any existing legislation. Furthermore, after so many years there is no sense in calling all this extraordinary and urgent. We had an emergency and an emergency, Minister, for four years now, when these people "little", we didn't know where they're going, what they're doing, what they're doing, "on which squares", "hey, my child" and "little people are" and all that stuff. We let it come here, you get rid of it now, and we have to close four-year-old issues. It is therefore invoked by the Government to legislate to extend the opacity, lack of accountability and the continuation of an absolute immunity regime. I have not had time to refer to any of the articles. We may, if time is given later, in any denunciation, on the articles, to say several comments, other than the third one. There are another seven articles, but we do not have time, because we have two pounds of amendments. I'm human, too. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Be well. Always hits!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u125	I would like to make a clarification: Because Mr. Psarian has spoken about secondarys, of urgent bills, of secondaryities...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u126	Hey, Woman!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u127	...that's why we're showing a tolerance to prototypes. I'm saying that so nobody can invoke it from here. Mr Kouvelli, you have the floor to present your amendment. I'll give you five minutes. I hope they'll get there and get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment seeks to regulate the granting of tax information to port agencies in the form of public limited companies, because they do not receive tax information, because the municipalities raise claims in respect of fees and other charges. This is despite the fact that the ports are not the responsibility of the municipalities, and in particular they are administratively excluded from the coastal local authorities. This should therefore be clarified as a matter and this is why the relevant amendment is being introduced. A second issue that we are trying to tackle with the amendment is the provision of working hours for port workers in the form of public limited companies. As you know very well, there is no port in the world that does not work on weekends and exceptional days. If this is not the case, the port agency's employees will not be able to work. The ports will therefore not operate on weekends and on exceptional days. The Minister responsible is therefore given the opportunity to set working hours during the exceptional days and weekends. Another issue regulated is the possibility of prolonging the conclusion of supply and service contracts at the pilot plants. The initial deadline was given up to 31/12-2018, and the amendment now proposes to extend this deadline until 31/12-2019. Also, there are urgent requirements for the supply of fuels from the Port Body and the Coast Guard, especially for the supply of fuels that continue to arise on the basis of the operational needs of the seamen, land and air means of the Hellenic Coast Guard. The last regulation introduced by this amendment is the extension of the operation of ships which have completed forty years - particularly those carrying fuels, oil - up to 31/12-2019, that is to say, by one year, subject to strict checks attesting to the airworthiness of the vessels concerned. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u130	I too, Mr President, have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u131	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, there is no procedure for asking the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u132	It was kept before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u133	Other if kept. But I say to you that it is not predictable and suddenly I see four hands. We have a second bill after the end of this. You will take the floor for a minute in the parliamentary order. Mr. Kouvelis, write the questions from everyone and answer the whole question. Mr. Metarakis, you'll start. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u134	Minister, with all due respect, on the amendment you are tabling on this matter, for example, the urgent need to supply fuel from the Port Authority, I would remind you that Ν.4331 has given you a deadline for this exemption by 31 December 2016. Then came Law 4487 and gave until December 31st 2017. The n.4504 came in and gave up until 30-6-2018. He came in.4551 and gave up until December 31, 2018. You come today and ask until December 31st 2019. In the previous article, L.4480, he had given a deadline by the end of 2016. Then came the n.4504 and gave up...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Metarakis, I gave you the floor to ask a precise question, not a position. That's all in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u136	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I wanted to ask, Minister, this: from 2015 until today, what steps have been taken to resolve these issues definitively? I understand the extraordinary the first time, even the second time, but not the third and certainly not the fourth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Carras has the floor for a minute, too. Please, Mr Carras, ask a precise question, not a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u138	Soon, Mr President. Mr President, your amendment refers to the number of hours of night work, on Sundays, beyond the 50th day, and so on. for staff shall be determined by ministerial decision. My question is: has the collective agreement already been signed? Has workers been abducted during the weekends, or is this coming before? Because you know that there was a matter with the collective agreement. My second question is this: Tax information for port agencies. To claim cleaning fees, don't they provide cleaning services at least? I'm not talking about lighting for port agencies. I am referring to clean-up services, if the municipalities provide, if they receive waste collection from port agencies, and I want to hear where they are going. Aren't they received by the municipalities to manage them later? And the last question: are you not too judged over forty years - to remind us that we had the Holy Zone - to run these same ships - fuel transport within the Saronic and closed seas? From the "Saint Zone" accident to date, what measures has the Ministry taken to justify the extension today? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u140	I shall refer to the ships of 40 years of age. In Piraeus, they say such ships to transport fuel are minimal. We are asking you how much it is, because it is called something else, Minister, that it is a photographic provision and take this into account. With regard to special weekend work and beyond the existing legislation, why so far do ports not work weekends and holidays? They're just in the employment contracts and they're getting paid extra. Why this anti-Semitism and unacceptable regulation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u141	Here, Minister, you have the floor. I do not give you time, answer briefly the three colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the local authorities do not offer services or collections - Mr. - waste in the areas of ports in the form - I repeat - of public limited companies. The legislation stipulates that any such operation that justifies fees should not concern the port area, because it is outside the competence of the local authorities and the ports themselves have the obligation, the relevant bodies, to deal with all these problems. Therefore, the regulation comes to very concrete and clear clarification on this matter. I shall now refer to what Mr Metarakis said. Mr Mitarakis, you should not be surprised by the repeated granting of a deadline for the fact that the needs are determined each time on the basis of the specific circumstances and needs. Therefore, a fixed arrangement would be inconsistent with the assessment of the circumstances that arise every year. And I come to the third and final point. Mr Colleagues, there is no photographic provision concerning the extension by one year of the operation of ships which have been completed forty years. The opportunity is given to address the issue in the context of a transitional arrangement and under the strict conditions that I mentioned just before the extremely increased conditions for obtaining the certificate of airworthiness. I want to assure you, away from the speaker or any photographic device. And I now come to the issue of granting, on the part of the Minister responsible, days and working conditions to exceptional days and weekends. I would like to assure you that the collective agreement, which has been signed between workers and contract workers, is not affected at all, and that is why it is still incomplete. However, there was a legal point - I would say - in fact. The agencies belong to the bodies of the general government. The relevant legislation concerning general government bodies does not allow overtime to be paid on the basis of pre-existing legislation. In fact, 1992 was indeed a regulation, which said that for weekends there must be a special fee. In fact, only one ministerial decision was adopted following that of the 1992 legislation. And is this particular arrangement coming up to deal with what issue? People, workers being able to work weekends, be able to work excellent days and get rewards. It is the only way to ensure the legal payment of the fee for overtime or for work in exceptional days and weekends. And I now come to your question. The strike mobilisation of workers, Mr Colleague, has been suspended for too many days. This regulation comes to settle an issue, which has indeed made it difficult to implement the collective agreement, because it was originally included in the collective agreement by means of a special provision. After the regulation, there is no question of all the arrangements and conditions of the collective agreement, and this matter is dealt with by the proposed provision on the part of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u143	We will proceed as follows. The speech will be made by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Vitsakis, then I will give the floor to the Minister for Civil Protection, Mrs Gerovas, for her two amendments, the first parliamentary representative, who has asked for the floor, Mr Metatakis and we will start with Mrs Kavadia and any parliamentary representative who asks for it will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, there is an amendment from the Ministry of Defence. Is the Minister coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u145	Mrs Manolakou, the Bureau doesn't control the Ministry. Which one of the ministers comes, takes the floor. We won't make the Secretary of the Minister's Council. I guess he'll be placed. Don't be in a hurry. As far as I am concerned, I am also listening to other amendments. Sacrificing winds blow up with the amendments today. No, we don't have an update. Here, Minister, you have the floor for the relative tolerance, as we have shown everyone, because you should answer, I suppose, some questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u146	I guess so. The first thing I want to note, however, is that it seems that the idea of democracy, but also applied democracy, with all the problems it has every time, is very strong and forces racist modalists to come here to the House and apologise for ten minutes, almost, for the use of the nonexistent term 'lathronist'. Of course, Mr Babiniotis is also tired of this, who should in his dictionary see what he should do. But the truth is one. The immigrant is a human being. Smuggling man doesn't exist. So this word - and I say it in all directions - is simply not the one who uses it, uses it wrongly. So we have to make this clear. I think that in this direction, all the parts, conservative and progressive, have gone one step further. Do not forget that some time ago and with the unanimous opinion of the Council of Europe - indeed unanimous - the term 'unlawful' has been replaced by 'irregular'. In other words, we have another step, which shows that man is being forced into being, he doesn't want the man to become an immigrant. I did the joke in committee and said 'Okay, not when you are Neymar'. That's where we're talking about other things. Otherwise, Monaco is full of immigrants, but millionaires.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u147	They have a residence permit!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u148	Yeah, they're cleared. That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u149	And the Greeks in Germany were emptyd.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u150	I would like to say the following in response to a number of questions. Mr. Psarianos is not here, but sometimes you know, when you want to go through space to another place you become the King's king over the other space. So be careful, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because they are coming more critical than you. First of all, I would like to say to him that EUR 16 costs the document, the licence, the card and, secondly, the 110,000 are for the remuneration of judges who have been working on the twelve committees for two months. They raise a number of requests because this pay, most of them, is taxed and we are trying to find a way to get this money. In fact, there is a joint ministerial decision - you must know it - that defines their remuneration. The second issue, Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Mitarakis, is this: it is your interest in VAT in the five islands. Don't worry. We who have defended and extended VAT to the five islands, and before the end of the year we will somehow bring about a regulation in this regard. But at the moment, we are not talking about a simple extension, but about such a connection, which would have, you would say, a more stable nature, as long as the refugee - immigration issue in the five islands lasts. I imagine that you too will not think fair to have islands with the increased VAT. It is another matter that we are trying to reduce VAT and others to be excluded. The main issue is that these islands, in fact, are raising a great deal of weight. In very few days you will have your final answer. I should like to begin with the three amendments which I accept. There is the amendment that Mr Papaphilipou tabled, but it was also accepted by Mr Kalogerou. There is the amendment tabled by Mr Gakis and Mr Psychogios, concerning the transport of foreign students, citizens of third countries, refugees and immigrants in schools or other institutions. There is also Mrs Skoufa's amendment, which relates in essence to the extension of the 'Sikaryidio' Foundation for Inappropriate Children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u151	Minister, may I interrupt for two seconds. Mr Papaphilipou informed me that his amendment, which you mentioned, temporarily withdraws it for a correction and will resubmit it, so you see it at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u152	Yeah, okay, 'cause they told you and didn't inform me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u153	The Bureau shall inform it first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, that's right. It is acceptable to be able to respond to the "Sikiridio" Foundation, which has serious economic problems. It's happened before. He's on his way to 31-12-2019. We now go to the draft law and the amendments that we have tabled. My speech will be a little reversed. Look, the contradictions of opposition criticism almost all parts of the Opposition appear. You cannot, in other words, say that it is not a matter of urgency that that part of immigration policy and immigration practice, which concerns citizens from third countries who have entered or entered after 2015. Before 2015, the policy was "entry, record or not record them and let them find their way". And their way was the chamois at Aspropyrgos, the irregular camp in Igoumenitsa, the problems in Patras, and I don't know whether it was the state and the camp in Dratsani just behind the Ministry of Interior. And he goes by saying. That was politics. Remember, these flows from northern Europe have been treated all this time. Did people find a kidnapper or try for themselves? Then who ruled? SYRIZA? We said about refugees and immigrants who are ruling to SYRIZA are looking! So let's get this straight. What do we do now? With Article 1, we regulate issues relating to the possibility of renting private property to meet housing needs within the hosting system of our country. No, you say. I say now: we'll take them from the islands. We'll get them to the mainland. These citizens of third countries who come to the islands are added to those we already have. And instead of helping and saying 'good to bring them inland, there are also places where you will be hosted and come and fight together to open up the northern borders, to redistribute responsibility in Europe', what are you doing? You say it's bad on the islands. The situation changes every time. Now in Moria there are four thousand six hundred people, before September 1st, there were eight and a half thousand people. Now it is Samos that we have pointed out has the main problem. When Samos ends, shall we go for Lero to Kos? We have nothing to say. For the twenty-six hospitality centers in the mainland, we have nothing to say. For the program "EXTIA", which hosts twenty-six thousand people in houses, we have nothing to say. For the specific pilot project, which will spread throughout Greece, language learning, recording and possibilities for finding work in the agricultural sector, where we constantly call poster or irregular workers, we have nothing to say. So you have nothing to say, so every time in what we fight, you come to make some suggestions. Okay. We say - and I will be very brief - that we have hired. You're saying we did it illegally and we want to legitimize it. You say something about the European Union too. First of all, these things have nothing to do with the European Union. It was our decision to unblock and achieve the programme from the European Union - and we have achieved it from the European Union - for the hosting of six thousand in accommodation. What did we do? Here, take the whole file. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis presents for the minutes the above file, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And the invitation of interest is there and the ministerial decision is there and all the contracts exist. Let me note that these were posted in the 'GENERAL'. There's nothing hiding, Mr. Papatheodorou. You should know - and I am sure you know, because you are a diligent MP and a very serious person - that it is different taxation when you provide hotel services and different taxation when you rent a building as a building. It's not the same thing, and that's what one would say, whether you get hotel services or not. I say we don't take. And because I remember a conversation we had yesterday and I tell you that in Volvi the cost of hiring per person per day - and I wish we could find more of it - is two euros. I mention it because something Mr Varvitsiotis had told me, whether I am a good negotiator or not. I'm not going to work on Wall Street, so that's what I could, that's what I did. There was the second issue - which I will run quickly - that a number of services in refugee - immigration, up to now, are being carried out by international organisations and their partners. All because the High Commissioner said - Mr Papachristopoulos said how many millions of refugees and immigrants are all over the world - he starts and leaves Greece and a number of responsibilities are assigned to the Greek state and the Greek state. There will be two other bills to resolve a number of issues concerning the involvement of self-government, civil society, etc. We should prepare ourselves. New issues arise, which are related to the concept of the Ministry's services in relation to responsibilities. On 1-1-2019 we take over transport and travel. We have an international competition for transport and travel. We also have the possibility of using some money at first, so that this can be done with commissions, very little money. We have to do this. The problem is presented where a service says "my responsibility is not clear" and the other service says the same. Now, with this piece of legislation, we are resolving this issue. For Australian citizens who participate in the program "Youth Activity", as well as pilots, technicians and administrative staff who come and assist, by decision of the Greek Government and the Ministry of Civil Protection, we resolve a permanent issue as to how their other relations are regulated. Mrs Manolaku says that there are trade unions in Australia. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u155	We've testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u156	But I don't argue they exist. But we are dealing with another issue. We don't solve that. What would we do? Would we forbid them from coming? Oh, no. We resolve another issue, how their activity is legitimised here. As far as Golden Visa is concerned, we provide for the possibility of a permanent residence permit to be granted to a third-country citizen who has acquired his or her full ownership and permanent immovable property of EUR 250,000 as a heir on account of a covenant or parental benefit, if he is a minor. This possibility has not been regulated by legislation so far, so we shall go and regulate it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We are introducing a series of regulations so that they do not happen - let me say - fraud. Let's say, we won't be able to move it to each other right after and with one house making a whole story or double checks, all going through the banking system, and thirdly the inability to use the other POS, far-reaching terminals, to do so. All the debate he has intervened and the public prosecutor would have that logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you need to pick it up a little. You speak seven minutes above your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u158	I'll say two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u159	These two and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u160	It's not our fault you did it urgently!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u161	Let's not make it urgent, so you can have time to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u162	Did you see me protest? Thank you so much for complaining about me. I didn't protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u163	Don't interrupt, please, so we can get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u164	I'll have a second word, if you do, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u165	Nor do you, Minister, so I leave you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u166	I mean, two things. For the first time I heard that an article must have a list of where the money is going. Firstly, I submit to the Minutes of the House all the money that has been made by means of procedures, not by direct delegation. It's PPC and stuff like that. The total of this money, which we are dealing with today, is EUR 2,000,000. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, because there was the issue of the Ministry of National Defence, I submit all the money that, for various reasons, was not accepted in the co-financed programmes and went to the ICP. The various reasons were that expenditure had not been foreseen, that a committee member was missing, that a committee member was replaced, etc. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That is the issue. And the last thing I mentioned is that the citizens of third countries who on 1 September 2018 were in reception and identification centres were eighteen thousand. This number was over twenty thousand if you take Kara Tepe and the houses. Eleven thousand five hundred people are currently in reception and identification centres. If we didn't do all of this, nothing would happen. I would also like to mention, since I have no other speech, that a major step has been taken in Marrakesh. For the first time in the history of humanity there is a political pact on immigration, involving sixty-four countries, large countries, countries from which migratory flows are born, transit countries, countries of destination. These countries are pushing us into the legal and moral obligation to start solving these issues. The solution to these issues will be to hit the traffickers and to have legal, tactical and smooth immigration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u167	Mrs. Gerovali will be speaking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u169	What do you want, Mr. Fisherman? I've already announced that the process will proceed, then you'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u170	I want to speak on personal grounds because the Minister mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u171	But he didn't say anything offensive. Look, this can't be done. Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u172	The Minister started by saying he didn't see me here. I'm here, I'm not gone. But he said that when some people are about to change party, they become kings or something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u173	We heard. Say your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u174	He didn't say your name, but you probably understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u175	Calm down, SYRIZA colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u176	In this Chamber I have counted too many parties, five, three, two, six. It doesn't matter. If you change two, you change five. But you don't change what you believe and your positions. Minister, it's better to change parties than places, underwear, suits and ties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u177	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u178	No, Minister, I do not give the floor. He said what he said. Sit down, Mr. Fisherian. He didn't insult you personally, he talked in general. There's no staff. The name Vitch didn't mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u179	The name Psarian wasn't mentioned either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u180	I won't ruin the process for such things. In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u181	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u182	When the Ministers introduce an emergency, you should first know how to follow the procedure. However, I let you speak for 11 minutes. Please sit down to continue the process. To close the sitting, by way of derogation, because you will have to reply to anything else, you will have to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u184	The Bureau is answering you and tells you about the procedure you have not followed, you have broken it. I'm telling you, there's no procedure you're asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Kaklamani, I didn't say anything to answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u186	After you have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u187	I'm not asking for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u188	What do you want to talk about then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr Psarian asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u190	Good. He made his location.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u191	And I'll have to give him a clarification. I didn't say I was going to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u192	But if you wanted to make a speech, I wouldn't let you first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u193	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u194	Here, you have the floor for half a minute and it ends the ping pong of impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Fisherman, dear Gregory, you can't do anything and get offended because the other guy tells you you're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u196	He wasn't offended. He gave his answer, as he thinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would just like to make one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Fisherman, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u199	Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, you have the floor for five minutes to explain the amendments briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u201	After wishes have been exchanged, I can go ahead. These are two amendments. The first one has 1857 numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative framework that has been in force so far requires juvenile police officers and lieutenants, when they are studying and incurring a disease which is judged to be incurable, to be unable to return to a new committee to continue their studies. You know that in recent years science has had rapid developments and some diseases that this law considered to be nauseous, in our time it is. However, there was no opportunity for them to return to committee to continue their studies. This amendment regulates this issue and gives this possibility of continuation, since it is, of course, considered physically capable and that the disease is equated with medical certificates. The second amendment, number 1853, is a procedural amendment that prolongs the formation of the DUs, the financial services, which, as you know, is compulsory for all ministries. It extends this possibility until 30-4-2019 for the Ministry of Citizen Protection, given that it is a complex framework, because the Agency now consolidates both the services of fire and the police. It takes a period of time to be able to organise properly, but also the respective services, and that is how it is to be extended until now until 30-4-2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u202	We give the Minister a few seconds, because he has to put forward legislative improvements to share in order to keep them in mind. Here, Minister, you have the floor for tabling legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u203	I'm filing them. They are the legislative improvements after the agreement with the Independent Public Contract Authority most.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u204	You don't have to read. You testify to them and they will be shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u205	Here, Mr President, I am presenting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u206	Now, be careful now how we're going, because I see Mr. Bolaris, who came a little while ago to fight. He'll wait for the show. It's Mr. Metarakis, then we'll go to Mrs. Kavadia, Mrs. Vultusis and Mr. Carras. If colleagues allow us, I will give Mr Bolaris three minutes before that for his amendment, and then we will go to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and continue with two more colleagues and any other parliamentary representative wants. There's two more registered. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken over the rule of this country, promoting the so-called moral advantage of the Left. You've made humanity good. But you, the supposedly good, are the ones who, in 2015, opened the country's borders, flooding it with refugees and immigrants without a plan. You also blackmailed Europe, saying that you will fill it with jihadists, effectively causing the closure of our borders not to the East, as it should be, but from the West. You stacked people in Moria, Vial, Vathy. Your humanism drowned in their muds. Because of your policy, our country is being crossed internationally through large-scale reports, such as the 'BBC' and the 'Deutsche Welle'. You turned the Aegean islands into soul storehouses and almost cynically the Minister admitted last October to a meeting of the Chios Municipal Council that the decision of the Council of State, which provided for a maximum number of refugees and migrants in the Cyts, is being violated. You have enclaved and divided the local communities, which have been faced with a problem much greater than their own capabilities and resources. Since 2017, flows have been considerably reduced, but the situation on the islands has not improved, because you still do not have an active border protection policy and Greece, the European Union has borders. Despite the European Union-Turkey agreement, neither the asylum procedure operates effectively nor returns are made, on the basis of the agreement, of those who are not entitled to international protection. Minister, I am not going to enter the philosophical debate if the terms of "death immigrant", "mistaker", "storager" are a pedigree in the Greek language. I will tell you, however, why your speech had an idea, that there is a very clear division in a favoured state between those who are entitled to international protection and refugees and among those who enter irregularly, illegally, illegally and must be returned on the basis of international conditions in their countries of origin. Furthermore, since you referred to the term, I would like to submit to the Minutes a letter from the Prime Minister's office, which poorly uses the term 'death immigrants'. Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u208	The Prime Minister has answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said to an earlier position that every SYRIZA bill along with the amendments always includes three components: firstly, extensions of time limits, proof of your inability to manage the state effectively, secondly, recruitment, the creation of new structures, "days" and thirdly, ex post legalisation of all costs. And in this bill, you're not just getting away from the recipe, but you're applying it to the ultimate degree. Just two days before the closure of the House, you are bringing in a bill on the management of public money with urgent procedure, so that we do not discuss it in committee, so that the bodies are not called and heard, so that we have a very limited time to discuss today in plenary. It's not that you just legislate in a bad way. You are enacting me with urgent bills and many amendments to cover up, to confuse the citizens and not to hear opposing views. In today's bill every article and every amendment is a set-up, every amendment and a rousphetti, a gift and all that by invoking emergency to immigration. Apparently, you underestimate our intelligence. What recommends to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, an extraordinary event? How long does the emergency last in the SYRIZA-ANEL universe? A month? A year? Two years? Four years, after all? For four years you have been wasting public money, national and European, because we are, as you say, in an emergency. It was an emergency in 2015 - again on your own sole responsibility - and since then it has been four years and you do not legalize today to speak of an emergency. Remember my intervention in the bill of the Ministry of Shipping, where a 2016 derogation took place in 2017, became the first half of 2018, became the second half of 2018, now 31 December 2019. We read in the explanatory statement that the implementation of the new public accounting framework and above all, the new framework for public procurement has combinedly raised a number of critical conditions for the procurement procedure. Minister, how far does the hypocrisy of this majority arrive? I would remind you that for CEDEFOP you have been conducting a committee of inquiry, because it has been operating in an institutional framework of its own, so that it can have the flexibility necessary to protect public health. You, of course, came in 2016, into the public accountancy, and since then you have been going through it again with derogations, with systematic deadlines, as you systematically trample into public accounting and in all immigration procedures, as you admit in the explanatory statement. With today's bill we have a smuggling of public money, when in Article 6 we have legalised expenditure, without even saying when the legalisation period begins, and in Article 7, you will for one more year extend the extraordinary and legalised commissions and contracts worth 12,000 euros. As our rapporteur, Mr Varvitsiotis, has said, you seem to have submitted these expenditure to the European Union, to be paid with European funds, rejected by the European Union and you are now loading them on the Greek taxpayer's back. In this bill you make rosphettes, like exceptional recruitments at the Athenian News Agency. With Article 2, you are stripped of local services with great needs and bring employees to the central service. With this bill you confess inadequacy and incompetence, as you still have not created a Directorate-General for Finance in the Ministry and Article 2 shows that you will not succeed in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, countless amendments have been tabled. It was eighteen when I got up, if I'm not mistaken. You are giving extensions to almost every obligation that this government had from your own laws. You are giving extensions to the bills that have been passed to serve transparency and you are once again voting for the derogation. Fourth time at the Ministry of Shipping. The legalisation of costs of 500,000 euros in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Rural Development 500,000,000 euros. At the Ministry of National Defence, with my amendment in front of me, the general number of 1883 and the special number 21, the General Accounting Office of the State - and this is unthinkable - it does not even provide for the amount of expenditure that you legalize. I shall stand by the general number of 1860 and a special 11 amendment concerning the Office of the Chief Inspector for Public Administration, which refers to the multiplication of positions, of allowances, of secondments from the general public as a whole. If we lived in a normal country and had a normal government, we would perhaps agree with the strengthening of these control mechanisms. But you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are using the control mechanisms to prosecute your political opponents. The role of your chosen Mrs Papaspyrou, whose role in the 'NOVARTIS' case in health and CEDEFOP and in Eye is now known. There must be procedures in the general inspection and it must be possible to choose the dates for secondment to this service, when, moreover, your allergy to the independent authorities is also known, with the latest remarks on the government proposal to place Mrs Thanos in the head of the Competition Committee, for which Mr Mitsotakis has already informed the European Competition Committee. You do not want independent authorities or control mechanisms. You want the application of your own will. As far as Amendment No 1869 is concerned, we are in agreement with the regulations, but we are calling for a separation and deduction of the provisions providing for the legalisation of expenditure. With regard to the general amendment of 1878 on compensation for Moria, we disagree with the fact that it excludes cases such as theft and foreshadowing gains from compensation, but we agree otherwise and ask for a separation of the other provisions. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: you have brought many amendments, but there is no one that Mr Tsipras himself promised the islanders, namely the maintenance of the island VAT on the islands affected by the migratory crisis. And since you did not, as you had to, do so. We tabled it under the general number 1883 and a special 20 amendment, and we call on the Government and the Minister responsible to accept it, as promised by the islanders. We have heard you, Minister, that you have said that you have been thinking in the next few days about bringing a stable solution. We inform you that before the Tsipras - Kammenos government came there was a stable solution. It was the insular VAT on all the islands that we refused to abolish, as it was a red line for Antonis Samaras and his government. You granted it the first chance to the lenders. If you want to bring an order, here is the House and today is the last day of legislative work. We're waiting for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u210	Here, Mrs. Cabadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, it is grief that we should talk in this Chamber about self-evidentness, as the self-evident thing is not foreseeable. We're talking about people today. For refugees - immigrants, for people. It was also heard by the Minister earlier. Because there are no smuggling people, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning the unacceptable term 'lathromatic immigrants' to all those who are brought by ideas that obviously swear to the superiority of a race. As for what was heard by my colleague, who I succeeded in Stepma, she really wants a great deal of nerve to move the finger to SYRIZA, the fact that she carries a Pharmaconissi in her luggage. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today could at first sight be classified as 'constructive' or 'exploiting' to some extent. This is, in fact, the majority of its provisions, a piece of legislation which essentially regulates administrative and economic issues of the management of the refugee - immigration issue, which - let us not be fooled - will not be normalized from day one day to day nor, of course, will be dependent on the will of Greece. As long as there are the genetic causes of the flows, and in particular as long as there is a war in Syria, as long as there are more than three million refugees in Turkey, while the Middle East and Afghanistan are on fire, the flows will continue. It is precisely the nature of the phenomenon, which no one can predict accurately when the next outbreak will occur, when we will have a new crisis or a new emergency situation. I say this because we are observing with great ease the opposition to accuse the government of allegedly misuse of the emergency when, according to a common confession, its own actions have been carried out during periods when the flows and tensions of the phenomenon have not had the slightest relation and scale of today, they do not give it that right. If there is a political body, a party that has proved does not work in the sense of exclusion and emergency, that is SYRIZA. Here we have a bill which actually justifies the title of "capitulous" and, in any case, a bill tabled to the House, posted and available to everyone, a bill for which open parliamentary debate has been held and which free of charge any criticism. I am saying this for the late supporters of so-called transparency. I said at the beginning of my speech that the bill is mostly normal. However, we all know that in the parliamentary procedure there is really nothing simple to deal with. The technical dimensions of the legislation we are discussing have been fully covered by our rapporteur and by the Minister. Therefore, it is not appropriate or necessary to repeat something about it. Suffice it to point out that, with this aim, the settlement of financial outstandings arising from the Ministry’s need for a rapid response to the requirements of the management of particularly increased flows, together with the objective time-limit for the end of the current financial year, is attempted. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is useful, appropriate and necessary to talk about the historical and political context in which the need for this bill emerged. We all know that in 2018 there was an increase in refugee and migration flows, significant over the previous year. This has resulted in overpopulation in the reception centre of the islands of the Aegean. Here I do not want to go into the details of the infamous joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. Besides, she's not here. This issue, like the failure and reluctance of many European countries to fulfil their international obligations, has been repeatedly supported both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, where at every opportunity our delegation to the parliamentary assembly, with a positive response, highlights the enormous European responsibilities for this phenomenon. Let's stay real, let's stick to the objective event. We had a major overpopulation problem and we had to deal with it. The Minister himself said earlier - he said it inside and outside the House at every opportunity - that the first priority was the decongestion of the Aegean islands and the transfer of as many people as possible to the mainland. Did this operation work? The data is an undisputed witness that yes, it did. Are there still problems? Of course, a lot of big and large. After all, away from us any attempt to make a very difficult situation. That is why the effort is continuing. I will conclude by addressing a sincere question to the opposition, particularly to those colleagues who define themselves as centre-lefters and who consider - in my opinion - that they have discovered an issue that is offered for small-party exploitation, but who do not present anything but with implied and vagueness, the only purpose of which is to create impressions, of course always with the willingness to assist specific Mass Information Instruments. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, have the illusion that in this way of opposition you offer good service to the case of the rational management of refugee and immigration? Are you interested in having a positive contribution to an issue that goes through the party lines, but does it have clear ideological and class dimensions? If the last question is not just rhetoric - and I am closing - as I am very afraid it is, is it time - I ask you the question - to revise your position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-two students and schoolchildren and three teachers attending the Achaea Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For a minute, for a procedural amendment to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Haritsis will take the floor and then Mrs Vulture will take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment is, in fact, purely procedural. You are well aware that under Law 4555 of 2018 citizenship has been transferred from decentralised administrations to the Ministry of Interior. This amendment includes this provision, two paragraphs. First of all, the performance of the tasks of the Heads of Units concerned shall be maintained by the first paragraph until such time as their appointments have been adopted. That is the first paragraph. The second concerns the extension of the term of office of the naturalisation committees, which are already operating under Law 3284 2004, until they are reconstructed, following this transfer to the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, the two specific arrangements ensure the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of the relevant services and the performance of the tasks of their heads until their transfer to the Ministry of the Interior, such as decentralised administrations, as provided for in ‘CLITHENES 1’, i.e. L. 4555 of 2018. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u214	As far as I understand it, you're giving a transitional period. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u215	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u216	Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA's gentlemen, while we were in the government, in the Samara government, you systematically called us "doubled with parliamentary cloak", because we were governed by legislative acts. Only after each act of legislation, there was a full-time debate on each within the House. After you have closed six legislative acts with the banks and brought another forty, you are now ruling with thousands of amendments, many of which are at the end of the year, they are Christmas and you put them on Christmas lamps too. Who, then, is a 'parliamentary cloak'? And don't start crying that you're the fighters of democracy, and we're the descendants of Cholacoglo. Don't scratch in the bag of chop, because I'll open the puppies and then we'll see who fought against the junta and who took advantage of it. You put the laundry...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u218	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u219	That's right, that's right. Don't open the old pounds. You know I have a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u220	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u221	You put the laundry and wash the old and the future. You legalize what you're doing and what you're going to do and hire. I have now seen that you are excluded from the recruitment restriction at the Athenian News Agency for the recruitment of journalists. When I was responsible for the Athenian News Agency, ladies and gentlemen, the lenders not only never let me do this, but the only thing they were interested in was when the Athenian News Agency will pay its subscription to the German news agency DPA. And then they replied "pay a dose, get your money", but they didn't give it. And you're telling me there's no transaction? Here's to explain: because with you we're not making any sense, I'm going to talk to my fellow journalists. Of course there is a crisis and no objection to ensuring a job for the Athenian News Agency alone, but as the law says. Do not start the exceptions, go to any site or any other means, and be called on all channels to support the Prespecies Agreement. I'm warning them - because there's nothing left - I'm going to pursue it and I'm gonna find it from now on. Because propaganda is like this, that's how it happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u222	You're targeting your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u223	I'm not saying names, my colleague. What do you care? I warn them to find work, of course, honestly, and at the Athenian News Agency and let me not be allowed to do it by the lenders. You guys are very good, you made everything perfect and you do it. But do not see them on any site and then on the channels representing the so-called objective ones, because it may, Mr Minister, what you, as the Scientific Council of Parliament tells you, are subject to judicial review, but national matters are the responsibility of another court. Explain yourself in here, all written in the Minutes, because the time will come. And with this bill, it is confirmed that the refugee for you was the biggest business you could cover: money off the memorial with direct assignments. I believe that you have caused the crisis so that you can have these funds and manage them at once - I repeat it and I will repeat it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Now, then, again direct assignments. And you, Mr. Vitsa, ask and ask again: What is happening, why have you not brought a single clue? What evidence should we bring, Minister, when you legalize direct assignments? You and your partners will have to go to evidence when there's a court investigation. Since direct assignments are made, they are all suspicious. And you're all suspects. There's a scandal. The scandal is the same direct assignments. I mean, I don't understand what you're asking us to do. You have a law that launders direct awards and says: 'Get us evidence'. What evidence to bring you, since all we can do is report you, once again publicly from the Step of the House, to be registered. As long as you continue your direct assignments, you are suspected of mismanagement and favorability to other people and friends and companies. And Mrs Berto, the Commission representative, of what she said, excluded the company issue. He said: 'We are not competent to see if there is a mismanagement of companies'. To be honest, we want an answer, without hiding behind the extraordinary circumstances, which you have created and for years have remained strangely extraordinary. If you have an answer, give it to me. Otherwise, I'm very sorry, you're going to have to give it away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u224	Now Mr. Carras will be speaking. Then I'll give the floor for a minute or two to my sympathizer, Mr. Pittsorla. Sympathetic because they're one of the regulars in Parliament's Control. This is how my sympathy to the ministers, who respects Parliamentary Control, is present, goes. Then I will give Mr Bolaris the floor for another or two minutes to present his amendments. Mr. Pallis was kind enough to offer his place to Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Germenis and Mr Dimitrios Kammenos will be followed by any other parliamentarian, except Mr Pallis, who wants - and Mrs Skoufa and Mr Papaphilipou to present his amendments for two minutes. And the Minister will be closed, by way of derogation, to say what he is accepting and to present an amendment of his own. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Reading the daily guy over the last few days draws the conclusion that an election perfume is coming. So someone feels a feeling. So the perfume of elections is pleasant, because the elections give solutions to problems. Sadly, however, as in the past few days, this fragrance has become heavy and in the Chamber it has become stirred up with the many amendments, with the urgent ones, which are intended to go through the government without actually discussing them. I also hear the view that it is the end of the year and that is something that is common. Even though he's used to it, was there no time before that? Would you allow them to arrive on the last day to ask for their vote, under pressure of time, so that there is no possibility of analysis and thought? I'm leaving it aside. I want to say one more thing. I was pleased to hear an amendment from a colleague concerning the 'SYRIDE OF FRAMEWORK'. I know the problem. I think I should welcome this amendment and propose that it be voted in favour. Furthermore, the Ministry of Migration's bill leaves no satisfaction, for the reason that we see that it is influenced by procedures which have become irregular. It is trying to legitimize them. There is also a number of legal issues, such as the report by the parliamentary scientific service, that the question of necessity, the question of whether there was a real need for legalisation, the judge directly considers this to be the case. And it's not a question that stays only on the interna corporis of the House. Therefore, matters may arise later. It's not always nice. And I see that the anti-standard regime has now become a permanent one and from the amendments that come from various ministries to legalise expenditure, to deal immediately with problems which would otherwise not have had the cloak of legality. A lot has been said here today. The government accepted the urgency and the majority of the House. So I'm staying on two points about the bill. I am referring above all to the fines for the maritime agents on the islands, where a solution is being attempted. I would like to remind you that I was the first to bring this matter to parliamentary scrutiny and the answers I received from all the departments were that he would be considered. But the answers I have - and I'll testify to them - one question comes in. Is it enough to grant a right of appeal to acts adopted in the past? Or should you bravely go ahead and delete these fines, Minister? And I'll explain my position. If, according to the legal status of the time when fines are issued, the alleged actions are brought, they will be judged by that legislative regime. So it is possible that fines should be validated and not cancelled. Since you now exclude maritime agents from the concept of co-responsibility with the new draft law, it is necessary to proceed with the deletion. And you know why? The complaint will be brought by the rapporteurs - I am not saying that it is the Ministry's intention - who will say 'we want to implement the existing law at the time of issue'. After all, they will want to defend their positions too. Proceed with braveness in deletion of fines. There's nothing missing in the state. Since the government's thoughts are 'if I accept the appeals, there will be no debt', why not tell it now to finish? I propose this with warmth, if you please, because I have dealt with the matter. I should like to mention one more thing very briefly, Mr President, because time is very short on urgency. As regards the amendment by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction - and I have dealt with issues - we are told that we need to double the special inspectors under the general public administration inspectorate - from twenty-five to fifty. I don't know if the number is small or large. However, I also know something else that, once doubled, the number of workers has been unloaded. So what is the need to give new people - and the old people, let us say, may be entitled to it because they were tired - of additional allowances, overtime and so forth? So here I remember the perfume of elections that I started my speech. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying this: the same amendment refers to the coordinating inspection and control body, that it needs a new strategy. But it's already working. No one has told us what the results were or have not been. We didn't hear about results. So I think that today we have a dilemma of legislation and not a piece of legislation. It has no effect. I come to a final point, Mr President, on the amendment by Mr Kuveli's Ministry of Island Policy, who gave me half of my question, because I have also dealt with the question of the collective agreements between the staff of port agencies. People are asking for the renewal of collective agreements. It is not just a question of overtime payment. I did not get an answer if it was the government's intention to renew the collective agreements, or keep it pending in view of the fact that there is also the bill to privatise these ten port agencies. He's not the Minister here. I don't expect an answer. I'm just mentioning it to record it. Thank you, Mr President. I am speaking about the Minutes and my question on the fines of maritime agents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. Mr Pitsorlas has the floor to develop his amendment. It's the second time today. Please don't trim the evil.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u227	No, Mr. President. It is an additional amendment to the issue of the Greek Sugar Industry. I said earlier that a resolution plan is to be tabled at the Court with the participation of a private investor in order to save the industry. This amendment concerns, until the decision is adopted, the suspension of enforcement acts mainly by the State for debts created and at the moment. For the same time it is a precaution of the members of the board of directors from the criminal responsibilities that these obligations give rise to. We believe that these two also contribute to the rapid completion of the process of reorganisation and not to the point of order at this time. I think that by the end of the year the proposal will have been tabled and therefore in a few months' time the process will be completed so that the industry can be saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Bollaris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a number of expenditure that has been done in the years 2017 and 2018 by embassies and consulates abroad. The problem with these costs is that they did not spend on the same day in the central register of public procurement contracts. It's either the night of the same day or then. They are small sums mainly relating to operating expenses of the embassies. I will give you some examples of how we can reach agreement. It is therefore not an amendment that raises issues. It simply attempts to solve operational issues in embassies where they did not have a staff or had a lot of work and did not have time to spend expenditure on the same day. I am referring, therefore, to embassies such as Brussels, Berlin, Pretoria, Moscow, Russia, Oslo, Tokyo, Hanoi, Mexico, Tehran and, in general, to consular posts in Jedda, Moscow, Johannesburg, Los Angeles, Istanbul. I asked the Ministry of Finance to give me examples to know what we're talking about. One issue has to do with wiring at the new offices of the Berlin Embassy. Another issue has to do with supply to the permanent NATO delegation. Another issue concerns the supply of computers in Chicago. Another issue concerns the cost of providing security services. I say to you that all this has been uploaded to the system, but it has been up late, or after the date of issue of the invoice or then. If we do not approve of them, they are charged with the heads, who most of the time did not know that there was no registration, because there is administrative staff who inadvertently or on the basis of a burden they did not record. The Ministry has made a circular, which we send to all embassies. We tell them that because this has happened again, it will never happen again and that charges will be made if we have a repetition of the phenomenon. So because the system is new and because they also call for reasons, such as the fact that in some cases the electronic system had fallen and had no contacts, we ask Parliament for the amendment to be adopted in order to settle this gap, which concerns micro-credits in all the embassies and consulates in the world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u230	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, since you are here, of course, and there are needs, which we recognise and follow, as you know, responsiblely as Opposition. But in fact there are many responsibilities for the mistakes made. You ask that they be considered legal and that the expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1-1-2017 until 11-12-2018, amounting to EUR 550,000, by way of derogation again from the obligations, control procedures, internet suspension of transactions and the suspension of public procurement in the central electronic register should be cleared. I'm not questioning everything you said to be clear. I say, however, that, as the explanatory statement says, your explanatory statement, 'due to uncertainties, other bureaucratic problems, assumptions and assumptions were received or made in a later period'. You should at least take all those measures so that this does not happen again. Because they are indeed diplomats. It is indeed a matter of expenditure, for which a solution needs to be found. In any case, however, it shows the curiosity. That is why I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should operate in another way. I should like to begin by referring to what is happening today, of course, with the amendments. Exemption is actually a rule. Because that's what's happening. We have the entire cabinet to present amendments, not to be able to read in detail and judge, to assess, to propose improvements, if you want, to make constructive criticism, to vote or to vote against, but on the basis of overall knowledge. You understand that this cannot be done in this way. I understand that there are only a few days left before the year ends, before the House closes. They could even be submitted one day earlier. Today's Thursday. It could be tomorrow's legislative procedure and we had the amendments one day earlier. I propose a way to happen next time so that we can deal with it. Because you understand that Members cannot function. As far as I know, the debate on the bill will end at 15.30 p.m. and now that we are talking about amendments are tabled. What criticism do we have of these amendments? How to read them in detail? They could be tabled one day and debated the other. In fact, the exception becomes a rule. I do not know, Mr President, whether any more amendments have been tabled at the last hour. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u232	He's on his way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u233	Yes, but also the Bureau - and I am not talking about you personally, I am referring to the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents - will have to find a solution to this issue. There can't be a legacy that way. You are relying on the good mood of Opposition on these issues. To sitting, talking and trying to see. Because they're workers, they're people, they're needs. But we can't go on like this. I say this with the emphasis I can say. And I think at least that's what we need to agree on next time. But we've been calling it three and a half years now, and we haven't found a solution. I come to the issue of refugees. We are talking today about a draft law, which goes into a more general context of a refugee issue that accentuates our country and the European Union. And before I begin, I would like to say first of all that the refugee is not going to be solved by anyone alone when we talk about Europe. In other words, we must make it clear that if Europe does not decide to deal with the refugee issue and does not rely on European principles and values, and therefore does not throw the problem away in the countries of southern Europe, for example, in Greece and Italy, it will not be possible to resolve the problem. We need a common approach to the refugee issue, to stand up to the bilateral agreements. That is why I said that bilateral agreements on these problems are not allowed on these issues but only a common approach. The Dublin Treaty must be reviewed and all those actions must be taken that will substantially guarantee the common European path. And if it had been dealt with or if it is treated as a European, it is not huge. The figures at European Union level are not huge. But, unfortunately, they are not treated in this way. They're throwing it in the countries of southern Europe. In our country now, they should not throw the corresponding thing into the islands, as is the case in the European Union, who throw it in the countries of the south. So, here too, we have to find a way to deal with it. And of course, I think there is a lot to be done on this. I recently visited Chios, Minister, and Moria beforehand. I would like to say that what is happening there in general - I understand that efforts are being made - not honouring our country, it does not honour the European Union. And I mean how they are small children unaccompanied, migrants and refugees along with other countries, from various cultures. We must find a way of managing refugee, which is also socially fair. And it's not happening right now. I come to the specific issues of the bill. So the rules are urgent and, in the context of the urgent procedure, the draft law is urgent. It is not just about the amendments and the urgency of the bill itself. Today we are discussing two draft legislations, both in the morning and in the evening, in the form of urgency and in the form of serious questions. Management of migratory flows is essentially the mirror of the inefficiency of the government. Once again, your declarations have been disproved. During the debate of the bill on the relevant committee of Parliament, you described the bill as a bill which goes on to various arrangements. What exactly does it take care of in the last hour? Is he settling loose ends? There has also been a detailed presentation by the rapporteur, Mr Papatheodorou, and today in the committees. I'm not going into all this. But the problem is that with the proposed provisions, there is a risk that we will not really resolve the problems that we have before us again. I could mention many examples, for example, that they are legal and can be paid for the leases signed and made by the Ministry of Interior until this law has been published. Essentially such arrangements make the bill, many of which come to the thresholds under national and Union law. No one disputes that the State is due in time to repay its dues. Since when? All the time? Here too, we need a debate. How, and under what terms were all the contracts signed? He's still unknown. It should be noted that there is no estimate of this expenditure in the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State. By way of derogation from the existing provisions, secondments of staff and so on, various issues are to be dealt with. But the refugee is not going to be treated with a reasonable business as appropriate. Because I think this is how you operate today: You regulate, settle situations, costs, and we cannot really discuss it, we can see whether we agree, in any case, on how the refugee and immigration are treated, because it is different and wants discrimination. Here too, there is no policy distinction so that we can resolve this. At last at national level, but also at international level, initiatives need to be taken. And as I said, the bilateral agreements are in a negative direction, Minister. I would like in this regard and yours, your government. Because at some point you signed these bilateral agreements, I mean that you have agreed, in any case, after a council in the European Union. In my opinion, this is a mistake. Our country must never agree to any bilateral agreement. This issue must be resolved clearly European, and whenever the issue of bilateral agreements comes, our country must stand across. In conclusion, I would like to refer to an issue that is topical in these days, but, unfortunately, the House is closing down and we will not be able to discuss it in the next few days. I am referring to education. What is happening with education really goes beyond logic. Every day we come up against different announcements about the pan-Hellenic exams. Now that we're talking about the two-year-olds, they don't know if they're gonna give, for example, exams to Latin or sociology. We also do not know what the system of examination will ultimately be. We read about schools that will be'red' for others who will be 'drawing' for others, for others where they will be introduced on the basis of the certificate and for others on the basis of the pan-Hellenic examinations. Three Ministers for Education had the current government, each having a different project from its predecessor. There is not even the same plan within the government in the field of education. At last we have to see how we resolve this matter. It has not been possible for so many years - because this is a time-consuming issue, it is not just this government - that every Minister of Education should come and all he says is that he will change the system of pan-Hellenics and go from four to six and back to eight lessons. It can't be done. We have again heard the same declarations of recruitment as for four thousand five hundred teachers of special treatment next year. So long the same mockery and for now, in 2019 after the elections. To come to the next government. But that's not happening. In fact, outside the written SAP competition, i.e. only on the basis of the annual criteria. We say that there should be a combination, that the necessary recruitment should be carried out by means of an AACC competition and that there should be a mobilisation of the pre-service criteria. Why do I report this? Because on the major subject, in education, there is a need for national understanding, which is currently not there. National understanding is needed in refugee matters, as I mentioned earlier, which is one of the most critical issues that concern Greek society today, and also in refugee matters, as it seems. So we need a decisive change of policy here. It is only in this way that these problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u234	As I said, the two colleagues will now take the floor, and the list of speakers is closed, Mr Germenis and Mr Kammenos. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, will then speak to present his amendment. Parliamentary representatives and ministers will then take the floor alternately to present the amendments. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u235	First of all, we say to Minister Vitsa that we are not apologizing for the use of the term "lathonian" and are not accepting any Vitsas fighting us. Let Mr. Vitsats fight his interlocutors from America, Trump, go fight Switzerland, his European partners, go fight Austria. They. We here, in this Chamber, represent the Greek people. We declare Greek nationalists and thank God, we use the Greek vocabulary that has the appropriate words for anything that happens and describes it in the perfect way. When someone comes illegally into the country, it's called smuggling. Golden Dawn cannot disagree or break with this bill, when even in the first words of the bill the following is stated: "...the recent exacerbation of the refugee crisis, which results in increased migration-refugee flows to levels that go beyond the capacity limits of regional services, the Reception and Identification Agency..." etc. Is that really the'recent acidification' anymore? What has changed in the world chess board and more flows are coming? Do we have a new world war? Is there a war going on in Pakistan, Morocco, and we're not aware of it? In fact, it refers to Article 2 below that the Greek taxpayer will again be charged, since the remuneration of additional fees, allowances and any other remuneration of the staff of the Asylum Office will be paid by the ordinary budget. It is therefore fairy tales that the packages are coming from the European Union to keep them all here. In fact, you do not hide it and show, whenever you have the opportunity, your true intentions and do it, as with this particular bill you bring. At the event organized by the Ministry of Migration Policy, the Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL - because ANELs are not coming out of this vagina - it is said: "Our priority is to ensure the right to a normal life of access to work, health, education, on equal terms for all. We are working consistently and in a sense of responsibility to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of all peoples within the Greek territory." He also said that in the next two years, 2019-2020, particular attention will be paid to accession procedures. We hope in the next few months that you will not be a government. So it was a fairy tale of what Muzalas said that illegal immigrants come in order to go to the northern countries, to go to Germany, France. That's a fairy tale. From what we see, you intend to keep them here. Why? Because you want them for your voters tomorrow, in order to change the structure of the Greek territory, nationality, to exchange them with the great problem of infertility that Greece has, but also with the European Union. Because of the ingenuity, you want to trade these people, the Greeks, with Afghans, Africans, and I don't know what else. At the same time as sharing millions for the immigration issue, as you say, they are closing national strategic operations, we say, like HALYBOURIKI, such as LARCO, recently, I think yesterday, "KALIMANIS" was closed with the frozen ones. You don't care that many thousands of Greeks will find themselves unemployed. Instead, you are making sure to give thousands of euros to every illegal immigrant who crosses the threshold of our homeland. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall refer to two articles, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u236	Time's over. In a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u237	For two articles I'll say. In paragraph 4, which you replace with Article 3, we do not know what the legislator or the poet wants to say. He says about airlines or shipping companies: ‘... the procedure for imposing administrative sanctions on airlines or shipping companies, as well as any other natural or legal person carrying out any kind of public transport of persons, in cases where they transport to Greece citizens of third countries...’. Are you referring to airlines, where are they? Inside the European Union? Outside the European Union? These people, how do they get into the plane? It refers to third country airlines. To the airlines within Greece, located in Kos, located in Mytilini? The planes inside are full of illegal immigrants. How do they get into the planes? How do they enter the country? They cross the border from Turkey, bring them to Kos and then to Athens. That's where the check is from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u238	Finish, Mr. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u239	You have left a state whole in immunity. And we go to Article 6, which is the scandal, because you move your heads too. He says: "... leases signed and expenditure incurred by the Ministry of Migration Policy or by the Ministry of Interior on behalf of the Ministry of Migration Policy until the publication of this document, without - I stress - compliance with the procedures of the Presidential Decree...." In other words, this House is legally illegal. To those who have not complied with the procedure on the basis of the Presidential Decree, what are we doing to be lawful? The parliament here, which legislates, gives them what is required by signing all the orders, except the Golden Dawn. These legislations we commit to throwing them back into the useless bin and whoever's outlaw, we promise he'll come back where he came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor. We're closing the list of speakers with Mr. Kammenos. Then Mrs Scouffa, who has been here since the morning patiently, will take the floor for one or two minutes to present her amendment. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said today. I won't be pleasing. The first question concerns my dear friend, Mr Drasakis. Because the Minister is present, I would like him to reply to me when it comes to speaking, from the point of view of whether he agrees with the non-controlling of contracts and the method of awarding all costs both to the Ministry of Migration Policy and to the Ministry of National Defence, that the Public Investment Programme should be charged? I could be charming and say that the investors are here. Mr. Drasakis, though, are the investors here? Are we going to charge the Public Investment Programme for irregularities or irregularities or deficiencies which both Ministries had in the way they were unable to do their work well? Let me remind you here that in 2004 the assignments brought us overpriceds, which were charged to the Greek people. In the countries that refused immigration are also very serious countries, not those that could marginalize them in any way, such as Israel, the United States of America, our neighbour Bulgaria, Australia, etc. I have heard detailed analyses - I shall refer, for example, to a fellow journalist - of the Members referred to in Rule 17 and you will allow me to read it. I will submit to the Minutes - with all due respect, it is a little great - the pact, which I am 100% sure none of you have read, especially the SYRIZA colleagues. Immigration Pact has not been read by any of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u242	Don't be so sure, partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u243	I'll ask questions and if you want to answer me. I shall read Rule 17, and I shall say to my fellow Members that in the media - I am talking about 'wall' - you put a 'wall' on. He says here: "Promoting the independent, objective and qualitative reference of the media, including Internet-based information, among other things, by raising awareness and education among media professionals about issues and terminology related to immigration, by investing in ethical and advertising standards and by ceasing the provision of public funding and material support to the media that systematically promote intolerance, xenophobia, racism and other forms of discrimination". In other words, you will decide to cut state funding, with what you are voting on here, in an instrument, in your judgment. I would like the SYRIZA rapporteur today to give us the definitions of what'relevant intolerance' means, who is racist, who is xenophobic and what definitions you will define if you are going to put a 'height' on the media. Be careful, a kind of censorship will enter, there will be no single open table, a panel, to discuss illegal immigrants. You don't want to call them "migrants"? But the other day, you found out and said about the gold smuggler, "He is a smuggler, the other is not a smuggler." It's a smuggler who's carrying an illegal product. It's not a product of man, but it's a mistake incoming and he's illegally incoming. We are destroying democracy and national borders. And let's go a little bit further. This is what the Pact says and I ask everyone to read it very carefully. Does it affect or not vulnerable parts of the Greek population and the entire population of Europe, especially of the Western world, illegal immigration, which is now normal and has nothing to do with cause of war or climate change and all this stupidity we hear? It's about choosing someone to leave his residence and emigrate to another. This choice is considered, indirectly but clearly, a human right and we must accept it. Will they have free benefits? Does the state have infrastructure? Minister, have we budgeted the costs we need for all these flows? Have we budgeted what will cost us? Do we have a budget for the next five years for the Greek taxpayer - with the difficulty of leaving the memorials and the difficulty it has today with unemployment - if the average wages of the host countries will fall on the basis of international organizations and economic studies? Will the public debt increase? Do you know that, ladies and gentlemen? They're proven. The average pay is dropping. What increase in the minimum wage are you talking about, for the EUR 751, when the average wage will fall with the entry of immigrants, who will not be a specific qualification or anything else and will perhaps go as unskilled workers? The question is again - and I remain on it - who will pay. There is one question that the honourable Member has raised and started. He started off with unaccompanied children, made a complaint that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has violated the legislation and has the children who have fallen victim to organ trade and are sitting here talking about democracy been unaccompanied? Has that happened? Do you know anything, colleagues? It's a very serious complaint. If state officials, whether ambassadors or consuls in Greece have been illegal in Greece, and they have brought children who have slaughtered them for organ trade, they must all be put in jail and hanged backwards. Has that happened? Is Mr. Kotzia's complaint too much? Has this happened on Greek territory? In Greece, Mr. Minister, do you know about the Greek cash alliance, the 'Greek Cash Alliance'? Do you know what this is, the blue card, the mastercard, that Mr. Soros loads with the United Nations and takes it without the name of all illegal immigrants in Greece and they go and raise money from the ATMs? Mr. Drasakis, you were in charge of the banking system. Is that money going through the banking system to the ATMs? Do you know that? It's Greece, it's the Greek program. And I ask: how much money has been received, from what beneficiaries, in what way has the blue card been shared? Because it's 'Greek Cash Alliance' - I'm not saying it - it's a cash alliance. We put them in a mastercard credit card, which has no holder's name, has a number up, 1350. And he goes and raises every month money from the Greek banking system. Who puts the money on him? I'll put it in the Minutes for anyone who's interested in seeing what's going on in this country. I'm going to testify for eighty pages, the manual taken by those who thought they were all refugees in the boats in Lesvos - the friend from Lesvos is here - who has information on the inside. Have you seen the manual? The Somali community, the Afghans, had nothing to do with Syrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Kammenos, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u245	They were given full instructions for what they will do in Greece, which are the legal offices, where they will learn Greek, which languages are taught, which days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Kammenos, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u247	I'm hanging up. We must take great care of this agreement. I disagree with the way it was voted because it was voted without the Greek Parliament and the Greek citizen being informed. This is something that is not democratic to me. There should be tolerance, but there should be no complicity. The well-being of the Greek people goes through democracy and information. There is no welfare of the Greek people, when the Greek people are uninformed, when by a Foreign Minister there are charges that some have slaughtered children and are sitting there and we are not discussing whether this or something else has happened. I also don't care, and I don't like to launder any Minister's posts or "we could, that's what we did", because that's how the country got here. Some could say 'the previous ones'. "I couldn't, so I knew, so I did." We can't continue to cover up and legislate dark. These amendments to Article 6 that erase and give forgiveness are darkness legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, may I have the floor because I was provoked?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u249	Wait a minute, I haven't given you the floor. Whether you were provoked or not, if I don't give you the floor you can't talk. So wait. Although the two amendments tabled by colleagues, Mrs Skoufa and Mr Papaphippou, for one minute each will have the floor to speak about his amendment. Here, Mr. Scouffa, you have the floor. You've been in the Chamber since morning and patiently wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I will need a little more time, because there is another very important amendment. So I shall start with the second amendment and I would ask the Minister to accept it. It concerns, in particular, the extension of the possibility of granting financial aid or financial prizes to mothers, mothers and mothers. As this possibility has so far been granted to multiple mothers by the rules governing the Agricultural Football Account, we are simply asking for this possibility to be extended to third parties too, in a socially sensitive way, on the demographic issue facing the country. As far as the amendment already known in relation to the Sicily Foundation is concerned, I should like to say that this structure measures over eighty years of operation. Since 1971, it has been supporting the social, employment reintegration of young people and young people between 14 and 20 years of age. Unfortunately, however, this structure has to do with public, tax and insurance debts. So, with this amendment, we want to extend, renew, if you like, the deadline by which this institution is exempted from the obligation to pay insurance or tax information in relation to its financial transactions. The most important thing, what we want to achieve, and which I believe is supported by all the groups, is not necessarily to impose insurance measures, seizures or anything else on the Foundation's accounts, so that the state grant received by the Foundation is able to achieve its purpose, in common, on wages and wages for workers in the institution and on operating expenses. I believe that both amendments are supported with sensitivity and passion - you will allow me to say - of all the parliamentary wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr Papaphilipou, you have the floor for a minute and a half to support your amendment because it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment is really urgent. It concerns the law on 'outside'. You know that Law 4571/2018 was recently passed, which amended the provisions of Law 3213/2003. The new law obliges the electronic submission by means of a single online application of declarations anywhere. The relevant online application was absolutely necessary to adapt to the new provisions. In fact, the same law provides that it has been dismantled for two months since the publication of the law. The law was published on October 31st. Unfortunately, the necessary adjustments have not been possible so far, and the deadlines for submitting declarations should be postponed where you were concerned. So all the amendments proposed concern this issue and therefore the amendment has already been accepted by the relevant Minister, and I believe that there will be no objection to any ward of opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Psychoyote, would you like to speak on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u254	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u255	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u256	As Mr Kammenos mentioned, I would like to make it clear on the one hand - and he knows it, and that is why I am surprised - that I, too, and colleagues from SYRIZA, participate actively in international organisations and have a full picture of what is being discussed and what is being done, such as the World Migration Pact. We also know the New York Declaration on Refugees and Immigrants, which is being used to proceed with this pact. So, what about this? In essence, the principles of international cooperation are being adopted on the basis of international law, in order to address the issue of refugee - immigration. So I think it is insulting to both the other colleagues and to us that we have not studied it. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Also, because it has been mentioned in the context of penalties and sanctions provided for by the Media Act, I should like to say that there is anti-racist law, which is complete, deepened by intervention by this government and provides for a comprehensive and comprehensive framework of penalties and sanctions when there are racist, xenophobic, sexist or homophobic comments or when discrimination is introduced. This has already been used by both the independent authorities and the courts. I say that to put things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u258	What about, Mr. Papaphippip?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u259	In my speech I referred to an amendment. This amendment has a general number of 1893 and a special number of 31. I would point out that, because an amendment with similar content was tabled by me a little bit further ahead. I would stress this and clarify it in order to avoid confusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u260	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Drasakis, to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment contains a number of regulations that upgrade the Enterprise Greece and facilitate coordination between the Ministry of Economy and Development on the one hand and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the other. It's about handling an electronic platform and other issues with which I won't tire you. Secondly, it makes some interpretative clarifications in legislation, which have the effect of facilitating the merger of two cooperative banks in Northern Greece. Furthermore, the main theme of this amendment is the extension of the validity of the extrajudicial mechanism. It shall therefore be extended until 31 December 2019. There is also an extension of the extrajudicial scope and we are trying to introduce some facilities to allow for easier use of this possibility of extrajudicial settlement. In particular, even if all creditors do not agree to make a full regulation of bank loans and public loans etc., there can be a regulation of loans only with public or social security institutions, which concerns too many of them, if the public debt represents more than 15% of the total debt. We are also increasing the threshold for those cases that may benefit from an automated regulation procedure and from 50 000 we do so by 300,000. We also allow a debtor to exclude non-business debts. For example, it can have a loan as an entrepreneur and have a housing loan and the inclusion of the latter has made it difficult to agree with the banks so far. We are also able here, if they so wish, to exclude this non-business debt. We are also protecting any debtor from enforcement measures, i.e. auctions or seizures, as it is clearly specified and specified that the criminal prosecution for the offence of non-payment of debts to the public or insurance funds will be suspended if the settlement procedure is initiated. We are also enabling businesses to use this mechanism even with smaller debts. Generally we try to make things simpler. We knew and know that throughout Europe the arrangements, the extra-judicial mechanisms - when we want them to be put into all the forms of debts involved and banks and ministries of finance, taxes and funds - generally have a problem, because there are also conflicting interests. Another priority is the bank, another IRS is the cashier. We therefore insist with constant efforts and facilitations that we establish this process as a mentality, but also as a concrete mechanism, because you know that private debt is one of the most painful legacy of the crisis we have to manage. In this spirit we are making these changes. I say this because there is, of course, another view and indeed there are issues - let me say them - moral danger. One might say: "I don't owe the public, I didn't get a loan. Why should I bear the costs of arrangements involving either a loan haircut or a debt haircut to the public?’ This dilemma exists, but the problem of cumulated debt is so great, which threatens the security of the banking system and threatens society and the economy itself if we do not find a way out to reduce and settle these debts in a time horizon. So, yes, there is this risk, but there is also the morality of the second chance - to say that - that is, that we have to give a second chance. Behind these debts many times there are changes in circumstances - the other one lost his job, the data has been overturned on the market - so we consciously follow the policy of giving a second chance. There's another question. I'm telling you issues that are being discussed either in public or behind the scenes. Yeah, well, we're giving someone the debts, we give him the second chance, and he retrospectively turns out to be going very well, it gets rich. Should we ask him back after all? In the sense of the second chance, that too is. I personally - because there are other views - say that if we manage to give a second chance to debtors, either business or natural persons, and they then go very well, the public interest will be served, because since the debtor will go well, he will be able to pay taxes, he will be able to employ people, he will be able to help the economy and society as a whole and get out of the crisis. In this sense, I think we should be somewhat generous, without meaning that we are ignoring the problems that exist. That is why there will always be a defence and a care so that these - let me say them - will not be exploited by people who, while being able, are not consistent with their obligations. But let's not lose the forest in front of the tree. And the forest right now is to speed up measures. I also hope that the banks in the new phase will see the potential of this mechanism more positively for themselves, so that we can go to a faster reduction in private debt, whether it is a debt to the banks, whether it is a debt to the funds, or a debt to the taxes. Finally, because I asked myself about the Katseli Act, I would say there would be a short extension and preparation of the new framework. I think it will be done by legislative act, so that all the procedures can be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u262	When do you see it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u263	Until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u264	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u266	We will continue alternately, in other words now the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Pallis, will speak, and then an amendment will be tabled by a Minister, then it will be Mr Raggos, then one minister again for an amendment, and then you are, Mr Katsiki. That's the process. If you have any reason to precede, ask Mr Rabbit - we can call him once he's not here - and see it. Mr. Katsiki, what do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u267	It would make it very easy for me, if what you suggest were implemented, to be given the opportunity to manage my time. Because it's too hard for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u268	We'll see now. We'll contact Mr. Rabbit. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with an answer to Mr Metarakis. He did not understand the Minister's answer very well. We won't have a problem with VAT on our islands. We have our agony and because of the tracking. You have been denied several times by the government, with regard to the many poor, final expressions which you have said about many things that have not happened at the place. Ladies and gentlemen, in an attempt at memorial conditions that you gave us a country with an economy as if it had come out of war conditions, in an attempt to organise the state in the field of immigration policy, the only policy that we had until then were the conditions and the deterrent measures, I will make our self-criticism and say that we have not done as well as we would have liked. There were no circumstances at all. We may have had failures, but for the first time in the country we decided to establish the place of Deputy Minister for Migration Policy and then the establishment of the Ministry. For failures and delays, I accept all criticisms, but from there on I do not accept any criticism of the correctness of our choice. I will make a general comment on all those who are expressed - we have heard Mr Metarakis, but also on the other wings, on the tough and the lightest, which appear in our Parliament - and which want to be kept at sea. Do you really know who she is? You want dead at sea and at Evros. You want dead in the first reception centers and the rest of the country camp. Unfortunately, I believe that you are doing so for micro-political reasons and for reasons of confrontation, to say 'to, to have died of a man', I tend to believe that you support it and ideologically. You're thirsty for blood. Who? You, who call them smugglers, who consider yourself legitimate holders of the country - if possible! - you think you have more rights as humans than others. It's ideological after all. It is unhappiness for the Greek Parliament to address people in this way, how much even when in the years of your governance, you have put executives and state officials into this idea to become conscious, blackmailing them even in order to defend this idea. Mr Mitaris said that the closure of the border to the East and the islands of'soul warehouses' and that we have divided the local communities. I think we have been explained by the closure of the border to the East. It's our water border. It's the deaths I told you before. Mr Varvitsiotis has, of course, done this in his term of office and has done so by specifically insulting the people of the Port House, because they are mainly defending national sovereignty. There's more to it. Every amendment and every article is a rushphetti, not only from the party of the Officerial Vice-President, but also from the other party, which I do not know how to say it: DISY, PASOK, DIMAR or KINAL. The three speakers had a different expression. DIMAR spokesman had a mild and creative reason in his position, as a Parliamentary spokesman for the DISSY. Mr. Karras accused us of smelling a pre-election atmosphere, but his own ballots were told about the self-government parliamentary elections. It doesn't matter. Unfortunately, we have heard other colleagues speaking with expressions such as 'hot cookies', 'cakes' which come, which once again four years ago were in a bigger form and they drank them warmly - warmly and they voted and they read, but they cannot today. This is the situation in the Greek Parliament. It is a situation where the smuggling of words by poachers, an untrue word, lures the Civic Antipolitics and eventually proves the transported vessels. One example that sads me is this announcement by ELME Lesvos for the use of the term. They are the transporting vessels that have disguises and characterize people who may be fascists, they may be neo-nazis, they may be racist, they may be philosophers, they may be national socialists, they may simply be darkened by some of them. But it's some transporting vessels that operate in society and do damage. The draft 'washer' bill was drawn up with amendments and with ruptured provisions. I did not, however, hear all these amendments being said to have been presented by the ministers, by way of derogation from the urgency procedure - and the President-in-Office did well earlier. The ministers came and developed them. With Mr Arachovitis there was a dialogue with all the wings who wanted to ask and clarifications were given. There was a dialogue with Mr Kouvelis. With those of you who needed dialogue, and questions were answered - and that was right - I am sure the majority of the amendments will be voted on by most of them. Nevertheless, in our public expression we like to use such heavy words, without finally understanding whether reality is what matters and whether the reality of our islands today is a bit better. I'm not going to report on Lesvos. I'll report to Samo. Samos is a hard reality in many respects. It is a harsh reality as a result of the policies of the previous governments, which I mentioned earlier. It was the policy of deterrence and even where they were forced to make locations, it was in the philosophy of closed prison centers to see them across the street and not to come. It was what Mr. Dendias built in Moria and then refused to connect a hosting area of seven hundred people to the biological cleansing of the city. Now, however, he is accusing us of the implementation and extraordinary waste water treatment costs. Unfortunately, we have an increased population after the joint declaration on the islands. You blame us for having made money available to meet needs and not having dead, so you can yell at the dead. You're also a little humanist and a little man-carryers. In the end, unfortunately, there are many 'killing people' in this Chamber and it is a misguided expression and can be omitted from the Minutes, unless it is a trial and it can be kept, not to say anything else. There is evidence of the facts and the results of where these expenditure went and how they finally helped Moria to speak about much better conditions. I hope that's soon enough for Samos. There are letters from professional hotel owners from both Lesvos and the other islands that wish to make accommodation available so that there is no problem in this winter. There are details in the information bulletin on the refugee – migration, the fourth issue of November 2018 by the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and the Special Secretariat for Communication Crisis Management. All the data you have received electronically. I put it in the Minutes that you can't, anyone who can't see it electronically, get it from the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Pallis presents for the minutes the abovementioned newsletter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come back on a matter very important to me. In this country we will finally decide, as a country of the European Union, to have a immigration policy and the funds which are spent on going through normal procedures, but to understand that these funds go to our business citizens who have spent their accommodation or provided other services, necessary in a bureaucratic system that sometimes in Europe is even more bureaucratic and that would not enable us to save lives. And that's what the Ministry did, and it's a good thing that this expenditure has to be paid. I am not going to mention, of course, compensation for the damages surrounding Moria, which, if you vote against, obviously do not care about these people. But we care, destroy property and incomes and care, as in the other reception centres. I would ask for a moment more, Mr President, to speak about the amendments. The amendments are many and I believe that most of them will be accepted. I shall refer to an amendment, because here too is our ideological and valued difference. Our fellow citizens like to look at them in the eye. I, when I meet my friend Spyros, my friend Ahmet, who has been a friend of mine who has been waiting for three years for her to be summoned by the Nationality Agency, to give her her her legal right, to be equal to us in a place where she was born, raised and ended the school and has the Greek education and wants me for an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, is an honor to us and to our satisfaction those people, who began with dreams of their lives and found themselves in our country, and their children to gain equal rights and want to look at them in the eye. You obviously have another view on that. You obviously don't want anyone. You have hunted rabies on legal immigrants who pay taxes and have obligations in that country, not to have the right to vote on self-government, even though they live, even though they offer our society. Well, we, yes, with an ideological mark, see all this. We will do our best, we will collect the many problems that we have inherited because of the lack of immigration policy that the country has and you will be sure that we will be here in the next few years and in the next few years, so that what we have not achieved so far is better and that we will be a model in a Europe that is unfortunately thrown from the small political view of the right, which embraces the extreme right, the nationalists, because it believes that it will get balls out of there. Carrots, ladies and gentlemen, will take you and, unfortunately, this harms democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u270	What do you want, Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like the personal speech on the designations of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative for a moment only.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u272	Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u273	It was unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, the way the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has started, unlike a generally civilised debate today, Minister, who has shown in the Civilised Opposition unacceptable designations, that we are supposedly seeking victims in the Aegean Sea. Of course, it is a state's primary obligation to protect human life and that is a principle in which we will all agree. But I can say - and I will avoid giving specific figures, because every man has great value, and a man has great value - that the open borders policy has had thirty times more victims in 2015 than in 2014. When the flow increased, the victims were multiplyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u274	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u275	As it is the responsibility of the state to protect human life, it is also its responsibility to protect our national law and our borders. Our country has a border. In conclusion, I cannot comment on what you said in your speech, that you are not being criticised. In democracy everyone is critical and it is typical of a state mentality to start your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. Mr Cretso has the floor now to develop his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u277	The present arrangement concerning the Athenian and Macedonian Agency seeks to address the issue of journalists employed by the Agency by independent service contracts. As you already know, the Athenian and Macedonian Agency, which has been operating in its current form since 2008, has been carrying out a very important national project for over a century and in a double dimension: on the one hand, it is the main provider of the Greek media news, mainly on the Internet, and, on the other, it is the main provider of international media news, international agencies for what is happening in our country. In recent years the Athenian and Macedonian Agency has been expanding its services, as all organised and serious news agencies abroad are doing, it is fully fulfilling its aims, but under adverse conditions, mainly due to the lack of human resources and especially journalists and correspondents. We all understand - it is not difficult - that the Athenian and Macedonian Agency, in order to be able to continue and strengthen its proper functioning, to fulfil their objectives, to have a proper management of its work, has to resolve the issues of subsistence, because it is suffering from a continuous reduction in staff and because of retirement or retirement. For example, from 2010 until today, it has lost thirty-four undetermined workers, and so today in the company, in addition to the staff employed under an indefinite contract of employment, there is also a number of journalists, free professionals, a total of fifty-eight people, who also cover key positions and are very important in achieving the company's objectives. It is therefore necessary to address the issue of the lack of human resources and especially of journalists and even on a permanent basis, especially for the RES - ICM, which is an organisation - let me be allowed to express - continuous fire, continuous operation, in order to continuously meet its needs. I think that the proposed amendment, which does not create a particular financial cost in the budget, will really address the problem. At the same time, however, something else will be achieved: strengthening the stable employment and equal treatment of journalists employed in the same vehicle, so that two-speed workers are not created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u280	What do you mean, Mr. Metarakis,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u281	One question, if I may be allowed by the Minister and you, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u282	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u283	Minister, you realise that on the eve of elections such provisions as are being taken by journalists at the RES - ICM are to a minimum suspects. I would like to ask you this: Firstly, with this amendment will I add to the RES - ICM additional persons from what is already there under contracts? And secondly, will these persons be of exclusive employment in the RES - ICM or will they be paid by the RES - ICM to carry out whatever other journalistic work they have and, consequently, to support your party propaganda with RES - ICM money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u284	Thank you. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitaraki, I will compare this to a party propaganda because I think it is good to stay at that level of decency. Mr Metarakis, we in the public media have given examples of how we understand the issues of transparency. I understand that you are laughing, but I would like to remind you that when we opened the ERT with all its structures and with all its staff, we did not make any party discrimination. Because I listened to Mrs. Voutissis before, I would say "at the house of the hanged, don't talk about rope" and, if you like, let's go today and see whether there are journalists who cover the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response who produce a huge volume of news and artwork online and in what media. I'm saying it's a challenge. We have therefore opened up the ERT with all the staff that it had, and we have also abolished the pluralism of journalists, allowing only secondary employment under specific strict conditions that pass through the board of directors and, of course, for those working journalists who do not have a place of responsibility either in the public media or in private.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor. I would also like to thank Mr Rabbit for giving his position to Mr Katsiki, making it easier for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President, and you and Mr Rabbit for granting priority. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the term 'crisis' has been increasingly used to describe economic, security and democracy-related events. The crisis as a situation of uncertainty affects people's progress at an economic, social and political level. The refugee crisis in recent years after the closure of the Balkan road borders took the form of a humanitarian crisis for Greece. Our country was drafted and implemented the management plan for the crisis decided by the European Union institutions and related to the conservation of the external borders and the retention of entry into the flows of refugees and migrants. We should not ignore the fact that these flows are the result of a lack of human security for these populations in the countries of Asia and Africa. The dominant approach should therefore concern the safeguarding of immigration in the host countries. Management in an effective way of the migration population should attempt to distinguish between voluntary and forced immigration. One and a half million people from Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan have called for international protection from countries in the European Union, including Greece. However, the pluralism of the phenomenon of population mobility must be divided into two categories: the first category concerns economic migrants, who attempt to find a way to improve their lives moving towards Europe and benefiting from European achievements. The second category, which is the vast majority, concerns actions whose life in the ancestral outbreaks is threatened and which have no other way of saving themselves than trying to get away most of the time, of course, illegally. It has been admitted that the European Union with its existing protection systems has not been able to cope with unprecedented flows and save their results. The figures of crossings through Greece for the rest of Europe are appalling. Between 2014 and 2015, the crossing increased 1080%. In 2015 eight hundred fifty-three thousand sixty-five persons who crossed the sea borders and three thousand seventy-seven thirteenths of land against only seventy-seven thousand sixty-two in total in 2014. When the countries of central and northern Europe did not show the intention to share the ignorance of the reception and protection of these people, but also because of the apparent weakness of our own state mechanisms to manage the difficult accountable situation, the government took steps to strengthen police and border surveillance by also activated NATO in this direction. Refugee is a characteristic human crisis, since it includes all the elements of uncertainty and risk to human survival that the violent displacement of peoples requires. The refugee crisis we are facing is the biggest after World War II and found Greece in the warp of the economic crisis, while for Europe its peak coincided with tragic shocks that marked a security crisis. It was therefore called upon to combine the defence of its values with the management of cohesion and solidarity between its Member States. Since the key element of crises, ladies and gentlemen, is their unpredictable appearance, their rapid response and rapid decision-making plays a decisive role. Anthropogenic crises, unlike natural disasters, can also be avoided. That is why the citizens are extremely critical of those responsible for their creation. Society is aware of the injustice committed against innocent people. Governments are not called upon to deal with crises in two ways: operationally, with the aim of protecting these people and reintroducing them to a path of stability and communication, informing everyone with precise information on the extent of the crisis and its consequences. From 2011 to 2014, the European Union watched a distance from the start of the crisis with an impossibility to predict the inevitable. When more and more refugees went through the Aegean and the Mediterranean from 2014 onwards, directly exerting unbearable pressure on the countries of the European south, especially in Greece and Italy, the situation was irreversible and the consequences of the dramatic crisis. With the gradual closure of the Balkan corridor and, above all, following the sealing by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - I say Skopje - of the borders with Greece for refugees and immigrants, the situation prevailed in our country was chaotic. The proposal for a joint distribution of this burden has unfortunately not found any sound ears. Calls for immediate measures were ignored. The activation of FRONTEX did not work, and that was when NATO aid was requested. The Greek Government with no terms of rhetorical policy, preferring humanism to hypocrisy, launched the creation of reception and identification centres and temporary hospitality centres in an effort to ensure effective operational and political management. It proceeded with a series of legislative and administrative actions aimed at urgently addressing key and essential outstanding issues. The internationalisation of the immigration issue and the acceptance by the European Union of the need to take measures to Turkey, in the event of its non-compliance with the readmission conditions of migrants, has strengthened the proper planning for the impairment of the crisis parameters, since the political choices of the previous governments have not shared responsibility in all European countries. There can be no social sign in the refugee crisis, as long as this is treated only as a security problem for the European Union's external borders and as long as priority is given to police repression. The lack of solidarity, cooperation and co-responsibility between the Member States of Europe has emerged at length during the development of this problem. Greece was called upon to highlight the human face of Europe, lifting to its shoulders a disproportionate weight in relation to its powers, at a time when it is also struck by an unprecedented economic crisis. These three concepts are Europe's political morality. And their lack will lead to the loss of the concept of a united Europe. Opportunity on its part, procrastination in decision-making and selective assumption of responsibility violates its existence, such as humanism and solidarity. The non-implementation of the Resettlement Programme, drawn up in 2015, has caused a suffocation in the islands - we all know it - if one considers that only in October 2018 three and a half, about thousands of people arrived by sea on the Greek islands. The geographical restriction placed by the neighbour in order to accept back migrants who do not fulfil the conditions for entry into the countries of Europe - I am referring to Turkey - that is to say, only from guests on the islands, has made it difficult to transport asylum seekers to inland accommodation structures, resulting in the congestion of the Greek islands. However, between January and October 2018, the transfer of twenty-eight thousand vulnerable persons, such as sick, women and children to better and more appropriate accommodation, was achieved. The provisions of Law No.4375/2016 at the time when they were legislated contributed substantially to the evacuation of the acute refugee crisis. However, in the course of their implementation, the day-to-day reality has shown the necessities that could not be predicted from the outset. In addition, the subsequent vote of the new public accounting system has tightened the conditions for their procurement, clearing and repayments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Warm request to have your tolerance. I will finish quickly, Mr President. Thank you. The incalculable increased flows in the islands have led to the cross-cutting of the regional services, the Reception and Identification Agency, with a centralised approach to improving living conditions. The renting of accommodation in the mainland for the establishment of refugees has contributed to the relative dismantling of reception centres. However, the necessary coexistence, under both public accounting and public procurement provisions, has demonstrated the gaps and malfunctions. The draft law now under discussion attempts to improve the legislative framework, with a view to the process as a whole, namely the invitation, the drawing-up of leasing contracts, the execution of these contracts, the liquidation and repayment of them, to make them flexible and effective. The proposed regulation therefore strengthens and clarifys the institutional framework by giving the public services the above powers, providing them with clear tools to act with certainty and legal certainty. Also, with subsequent provisions in the framework of the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and Australia, a new category of national visas is established for citizens of Australia, eighteen to thirty-one years, who are participating in the Youth Mobility Programme, with the main aim of visiting Greece for holidays for up to 12 months. Furthermore, citizens of third countries who enter the country to meet their fire-fighting needs in the anti-nuclear period and are volatile, technical, administrative staff are also part of a new category of national entry. Finally, provision is made for the possibility of permanent residence permits to an investor in a third country who has acquired wholly immovable property of an objective value of EUR 250,000. Something we have discussed several times with this legislation. It is thus estimated that the investment interest in both the real estate and the general property market will be strengthened. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks continue to work towards a smoother management of the crisis caused by migration and refugee flows. In this spirit, I believe that the individual provisions of this draft law are being moved, and we are voting in favour of them. At the same time, however, I would like to make it clear and repeat that Greece alone cannot suffer indefinitely and exclusively the burden of the immigration and refugee crisis. It is now a matter of European dimensions and, therefore, it is a question of dealing with all the Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u288	Thank you Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the New Kymnasium of Argolidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell students and students that they are following one of the top two functions of Parliament's plenary. One is the one you are following, which is the debate of bills in order to make state law, and the second is that of parliamentary control, where, by a certain procedure, Members control the government and the ministers. There is a debate in a certain way, which is broadcast live on television too, so that people can watch what is happening here. Today you are following a bill from the Ministry of Migration Policy. A number of amendments have been tabled on the bill. Therefore, keep an eye on the ministers who develop amendments and Members, representatives of the parties, to be placed. We shall proceed with the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will develop the amendment under general number 1887 and specific number 25, which has two articles. The first article concerns the amendment of paragraph 3 of Article 53 of Law 2725/99, namely sport law. What was provided for in the existing article: As you know, in order to carry out an international organisation, a sports initiative, an organisational committee was set up which was responsible for the organisation. This organisational committee was financed, based on the provisions of the law, by the special account of the OPCW. There is neither an OPCW today nor a special account, so that such an organisational committee can be financed. In the past few years there has been a quite problematic approach, and I would say, practically, because we had to find a way of doing the organization through either direct financing of federations responsible for the organization by the General Secretariat of Sports, either through indirect financing by local government or by the Ministry of Tourism, in a way which has facilitated the situation, but which has not helped either transparency or control or final accountability. In any case, although, to be honest and fair, we have no smuggling samples so far, yet there has been an environment which has enabled everyone to be indirectly financed and to avoid centralised control. This article we are changing today and we allow the organizing committees to be directly financed by the central koruna, by the central budget of both the General Secretariat of Sports, that is, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and also by other ministries, which are usually financed by the Ministry of Interior through the municipalities and regions, by the Ministry of Tourism through the Department of Digital Policy, when we have instruments and issues of supplying technological equipment, etc. It is therefore a necessary amendment to transparency and fundamentally and a change in regulation, which is an anachronistic, given that the basic conditions envisaged do not exist at the moment. The second article relates to the fan card and the extension for another year of its operation. You know - I have said it several times - that we had issues about the legislation on the protection of personal data. We are trying to develop a second mechanism in cooperation with FIFA and UEFA. Last month we had a significant development. A new legislative framework in Cyprus, which had the same problem, managed with a different structure to overcome this project and operate, with many complaints from the groups, but I think this is something that we do not care about. In any case, next time, by stepping on the legislative example of the Republic of Cyprus - with the relevant Ministry, we have excellent cooperation with the Cyprus Sports Agency - and we will perhaps also see some changes in our own legislation so that we can overcome the problem. It is therefore necessary to extend further, given that the previous year expires on 31 December and without the extension the matches of professional championships could not be conducted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u290	We thank the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, may I ask you a question on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u292	Of course, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much. As far as I understand it, Mr Minister, your amendment concerns a change in the method of financing the organisational committees. If, then, I understood it correctly, my question - and I am ending with it, Mr President - is this: Organizing committees which in the past had the right to finance and owe money, through their organizational work, to individuals, with today's amendment, could be financed in order to make money over the past few years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u294	Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, you will give me a minute. This is a real and many-dimensional problem. One is suppliers, the other relates to inspections carried out after fines or theories which are unduly paid to officials mainly of the General Secretariat of Sports and the stages for infringements of legislation. I think it is a matter which is both present and the next time - perhaps the bill now in consultation and which will be voted on shortly after the celebrations in Parliament - to open this debate in Parliament. It is an important and delicate issue, which we must discuss openly and agree on how to deal with these cases, because perhaps the biggest problem - although the requirements are fair - I want to be clear about this - is that due to a lack of computerisation and various problems that come from the past, we cannot have a full picture of the level of these debts. Therefore, we cannot take any initiative to consent to the Treasury, because we do not know what burden it imposes on finance. It is, however, a debate which will have to take place with soberness within Parliament and move on to a legislative initiative in a relatively direct way. It's something we're looking at. It is not solved by this amendment. It would require much more thorough discussion with all political parties. It is quite a delicate matter, but we should clearly also open it up, discuss it and find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Ragos, whom I thank for the tolerance he has shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u297	We are talking today about further legislation and benefits on the substance, which is about illegal immigrants. For us, they are illegal immigrants, for the Greek society they are illegal immigrants. What the Minister said earlier here, Mr. Vitsats, I think it was unresolved. He even went to fight with Babiniotis, that the dictionary needs to be changed, not to call them illegal immigrants, to tell them something else that would suit SYRIZA and ANEL's ideology. Okay, we've come to the point, of course, you've said and legislated that little boys at the age of 15 may become little girls and girls. Aren't you gonna tell them anything else you want? You're gonna have another conversation. And to get to know each other and say some things, none of us have said that people are smuggling, of course. Don't put words in our mouths that we haven't said. We have said that they are illegal immigrants because they are smuggling across the border of our country. That's the reality. Let's get this straight. So let's go see why you're so tired of illegal immigrants. From 2014 to 2019 Greece has taken about 509m euros to manage illegal immigration. Since 2015, he has received an exceptional grant of 352 million euros. It has received some EUR 300 million pre-financing for various projects that need to be built and made. It has also taken EUR 200 million from the Emergency Support Fund. Directly at the Ministry of National Defence, 89m euros have gone to the Ministry of Health 25m euros to the Ministry of Migration Policy 12m euros. That makes us, in a depth of five years, 1,487 billion euros. Nice business! It's good work here! That's why we're getting so chopped up. It's not humanism. If humanism is humanism, you will also be interested in the Greeks of Northern Epirus, who are going through difficult times, who are being murdered by Albanian socks and nobody is talking about, we will talk about our brothers who are suffering, we will talk about all of this. But you don't talk about them. These minorities are not interested in the Greek Parliament. In the Greek Parliament we are interested in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia and the Earth of Fire. That's what we're interested in. We see, then, that because your breads as government are now slowly ending, you are trying to get some weight off you. I'll explain what's happened. Two months ago there was a complaint from the Director of the Ministry of Immigration and Identifying Directorate for the Ministry of Migration Policy Mr. Andreas Ilioopoulos. This one, following on from various other factors of yours that you have put on them and set them, as Mr Buddour in 2016, reported that millions of euros have disappeared from these humanitarians managed by you humanists. They've disappeared. Mr. Iliopoulou denounces these. Then the Minister comes out, Mr. Vitsas, and says that this is not the case, that these are false, that there is no such thing and there is no reason to discuss it. After a few days, the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Xeni Demetriou, decides that this matter should be dealt with through the financial director of the prosecutor's office, because there is indeed suspicion and reasonable information that money has disappeared. And we're going into this process and we're looking to see what's going on. At the same time, however, the European Anti-Fraud Office, the so-called OLAF, which is also looking to see what has happened with regard to illegal immigration and the funds that have disappeared, has also entered into force. Indeed, the control that Greece is doing at the moment, the Greek authorities, the IMO etc. They are not related to what the European Agency is doing. That's another one. One more, the other one. They're looking for someone else there. They're looking somewhere else. And while we see these things and think that they will be, can't this government be accused of doing such things, that these people are fighting only for the sake of immigrants, that they can't have done such things, that today this bill comes and what are we seeing? Today's bill for the world that does not know - to understand - talks about benefits to illegal immigrants, property leases, feeding, allowances. Everything about illegal immigrants from here. Let the people who hear that there are both Europeans and Greek justices, to see what has been done with mismanagement. It therefore says in Article 6: "Hatees signed and expenditure incurred by the Ministry of Migration Policy or by the Ministry of Interior on behalf of the Ministry of Migration Policy, until the publication of the current - today - without even complying with the procedures of the Presidential Decree, are considered legal." It is therefore considered legal what has been done so far. What Greek justice is looking for, to see what an irregularity may have happened - which has probably happened - what Europeans are looking for to see where some tens of millions of euros have disappeared - humanity always, no, you have not taken it for another reason, for humanity you have taken it, you will help others to come after - you are legally doing it today with Article 6. This is where you create the oxymomile and the joke of the case, because we come to the end of your parliamentary presence as government and because you will probably separate your bags with Kammenos now, so that everyone can do theirs. You guys will play hard left and Kammenos will play hard patriot from now on, let everyone save his flesh. So forget about Article 6, or you didn't want to put the Department of National Defence. You leave him out to Kammenos to find him exposed. So he comes today with almonds running, when he sees what has been done and brings an amendment to 10.50 minutes in the morning. What does the amendment say? ‘Tax carried out for the actions of this bill, until the publication of this Law, shall be considered lawful’. The same thing is said by the Department of National Defence, Kammenos, who you forgot outside. And we say, do you think they've been taken? I don't think so. It's just, Kammenos got nervous because he saw something happen here. So that is what we legislate within the Greek Parliament and it makes me a terrible impression that we have heard nothing from the other parties. We did not hear anything about this fact. We have heard some vague and philosophies of the New Democracy and PASOK - KINAL - how many names have been changed here - without mentioning this. That's exactly why, because with certain elements, we keep pulling out the laundry in the forum we're being so persecuted. That's why you close microphones, lights and open doors to get us out when we talk. That's the reality. So let the Minister or the Ministers who are here at the moment explain to us this: is Article 6 random? Is it accidental and the Secretary of State for National Defence's amendment, or is it panicky for you, why are things slowly difficult? Very well you have done - although you have not brought it to the end, so far - to get the previous ones to go to trial, 'NOVARTIS', 'SIEMENS', for armaments, for a thousand two things, etc. Let's see if you can bring it all the way. If you do not do that, you will find yourself running and apologise to see who has eaten it. So we have reached the point of seeing these things. Continuing, I would like to say that the whole game has something to do with you and the media, of course. There are the big presses, the big-craps, the money I read to you before. It's a lot of money. This is how public opinion is shaped. Thus, a child who is poorly afflicted in the Aegean Sea and can rejoice across borders and the sea is presented as the only problem. But there is not the other fact that all of these, the vast majority, have come in and killed Greek citizens, robbed, do what they want. The vast majority of prisoners, at a rate of over 65% - 70%, consists of foreigners, and in fact we are talking about cruel crimes and not minor violations to make a cut. We're talking about hard felonies. There we constantly present the drama of a child, which is not the fault. But tell me, is it true, is it because Greece has not yet done anything there? Does Greece have any involvement? Is Greece involved somewhere? Has it created all these things, or are your partners, who are with whom you are every day together talking - and indeed you have nothing to offer and exchange, are simply ordering you and obeying as faithful dogs, applying your laws - to blame for all this? It has nothing to do with Greece, it is not Greece anywhere. At the moment Greece is losing its best mind. They're leaving over five hundred thousand Greeks. Here there is a violent alteration of the Greek population in this way. It is no coincidence that 99% of the illegal immigrants crossing the border are Muslims. All this isn't random. They are to alter the Christian, the Orthodox way of thinking and the tradition of our homeland. Unfortunately for all of you, however, behind you, behind this flag of stars, which we wish to fly one day, there is a blue-white flag, which you are even now obliged to represent and fight for those who are with the blue-white flag. There is the blue-white flag, which poorly for you, good for us - and for the vast majority of the Greek people - has a cross on it. The cross is not decorative. The cross shows the Orthodox faith of the Greek nation. Because you forget very easily and because you are talking to us about democracy, without being democracies anywhere, I would like to say that 80% of the Greeks disagree with the name of Skopje, which you want to call them "Macedonia", as well as 82%, according to investigations conducted, disagrees with the intangible entry of illegal immigrants. The Greek state can't stand it anymore. In support of what I am saying, it is no accident that millions of illegal immigrants enter and the best ages of the Greeks are left, about five hundred thousand people. We also read that according to an IOBE survey, in 2035 - we are not talking about a hundred years, but about sixteen, seventeen years - we will have closed one in three schools in Greece. The students will have been reduced by four hundred and thirty-two thousand. These are scary. It's a genocide taking place in our homeland. It is a genocide, for which you have the direct responsibility, you with the ANELs and, of course, all the parties that are here, because illegal immigration and the memoranda that have trampled the Greeks have not become now. They have been made by previous governments. All together you ate them, as Pangalus was right, and you all continue to eat them to the health of the suckler, who is the Greek people. We're resisting. We'll react with all the legal means. We do not accept the colonization of Greece by poaching Muslims, we do not accept the alteration of the Greek population. The Golden Dawn will fight to the end, it will wake the Greeks and all together we will win our homeland again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u298	We are going with the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos, to develop the Ministry's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, is there a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u300	Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u301	We are coming to the end of the debate and I think that the debate is continuing because amendments are constantly coming. The last one that shared us is eighty-five pages. We call for the protection of the Bureau. If you think that we can discuss an amendment of eighty-five pages at the moment, you can understand that this is a trivialisation of parliamentary procedures. Will you tell the ministers to stop bringing amendments? Because, Mr President, it is your responsibility too. We cannot just talk about the amendments coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u302	Good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, we do not have the amendment. What is Mr Petersburg's amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u304	I think it's been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u305	It is not Mr Petropoulos' amendment to which Mr Papatheodorou refers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Petropoulos, who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u307	I'll tell you, Mr. Metarakis. It is the general number 1888 and number 26. It has four articles, which I think you will agree that they should be included in today's legislative debate. I'll wait for you to see her. I think it's important that we all accept it. It's very specific. There's no difficult matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u308	Eighty-five pages came warm. They concern alcohol, VAT...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u309	We'll talk about it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u310	Eighty-five pages! Such an insult does not exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Varvichiotis, if you have any equivalent to what I'm going to develop...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u312	I have a counterpart in this, Mr. Petropoulou. I've got a rival to what's coming on since the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u313	What can we do? You'll see that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u314	This is a parliamentary coup.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u315	There are so many loose ends you've left for so many years and we're running in time. Every day we do this job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u316	Do you solve them in one day?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u317	Every day we do this job and you tell me if you disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u318	Make it right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u319	We do not know what the amendment says, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u320	You'll tell me if you'll disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u321	If you want to change things, change them properly, not with eighty-five pages of amendments that came five minutes ago and which you put all the regulations in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u322	For what I'm going to say, you'll tell me if you disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, Mr Papatheodorou is right. Protection. It is not urgent to regulate alcohol, which regulates VAT, which regulates property, which regulates I do not know what else. It is not possible for the Bureau to allow the role of Parliament to be played in this way. You must take an initiative to withdraw these amendments, which are self-evident bills and have no urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u324	Good. Mr. Petropoulou, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u325	The debate will take place on specific questions. What I want to say to you is that I am sure you will agree on these provisions, which are understandable and can be easily discussed. The first article of the proposed amendment refers to the inclusion of compasses in film projects, because there are important investment programmes before us. Programmes for the development of cinematographic and audiovisual media are coming to the country, and we need to give an opportunity, so that by integrating the compasses into the mistress, we can facilitate these productions. It is something that I imagine you will be in agreement with and will vote for. It helps the development of this activity. In the same article we exclude referees of amateur championships, because referees in amateur championships are not rewarded. They had therefore been wrongly charged with being a charge on the bachelor, which had been arranged under prior provision for referees of professional football or basketball games. The second article concerns the inclusion in training programmes and unemployment subsidies of those journalists and press technicians who could not be subject to them, because the relevant regulation and the OAED law did not provide for the inclusion of unemployment subsidies and training programmes for journalists and technicians. The category of these workers receives unemployment benefit from the former GNSSF and the EDF - now ECA - and after the time of payment of this unemployment benefit has expired, they may be entered in the situations of the unemployed in the OAS to have protection for unemployment and for training. The third article refers to the dismissals of the former meat industry ‘THAKE S.A.’. It is a programme that has been in force since 2009. It's been extended for three more years. He's had successive extensions since he got into effect. It is the Public Investment Program of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which concerns fifty-six people managed by the "NANAMPYXIAKI EVROY S.A." and solves some management issues, costs, which have arisen during the previous management period and thus solves this issue. The fourth article refers to the remuneration of the work and the insurance coverage of the cleaners who worked for the OAED's cleanliness since October 2018. By the time the new cleaners come, they have come the programme for the opening of these seats by competition. Because it is well known from the press that these people were left uncovered in terms of remuneration, because the relevant costs were not approved by Parker. This need is also covered, because there was no longer the OAS-cleaning contract all this time. I think it is four articles in which one realizes that we cannot go through this next year. We need to resolve them before we start the new year so that these people can also be paid and covered by these programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u326	Thank you. Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, it is not just your responsibility. It is also the responsibility of the Minister whose bill we are discussing under the urgency procedure yesterday and today in plenary. That's a comeco-trag. I heard Mr. Petropoulos with caution. Most of what he says might have to be adjusted. He's right. All previous ministers who have passed are of Shipping, Rural Development, National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Public Administration. All the Ministries have so far been counted there are twenty-four amendments. Just a minute ago, here the people of Parliament, the clerks brought five. They're here. I've gathered all the rest of them. They're here. Can we find 20 people to read them, to discuss them and to vote until New Year's, because they have to be this year? They have been loose ends over the last thirty years. I think that the government is right to close this small issue because it has many 'customers' to take care of. It is unacceptable what is being done, it is comicotragic, it is within the diversion. Who will read and discuss these seventy-five amendments tonight? The Minister, Mr Vitsas, whose bill we are discussing under the urgency procedure, must stop this now. It is a disgrace for democracy and for the House. This thing can't be done. It's tragic. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u328	Good. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u329	In the last five minutes, Mr President - and we are very brief and specific - the five amendments have been tabled. For us, it is a question of protecting parliamentary procedures. Either the ministers withdraw them or we leave the whole process. I think that by your own intervention it is very easy to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. Mr. Metarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I do not think there is a precedent for what we are experiencing today. If I ask for the amendments to be read, you need four hours to read them. If I ask them to be read, you need four hours to read what's come in the last half hour. It is impossible, Mr President, to continue this procedure in the way that the government wishes, unless the Government no longer wants to know what it is legislating on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u333	It has paralyzed the entire Ministerial Council with an amendment in hand. He can't go anymore. It's a disgrace, it's unauthorized. We're denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u336	Here you go, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, as you can see, indignation goes to all the wings of this House. I tell you very sincerely: Or the government withdraws all the amendments that have been tabled, and we are only discussing the bill or otherwise, we are not prepared by our presence to legitimise this process. We will be absent and you will be on your own, the parliamentary majority, in a bill to make its laundry. In SYRIZA's laundry, we're not going to be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u340	Here, Mr Chakalote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, there is a point of complaint raised by colleagues. I don't deny it. It was a budget that took us more days. We didn't have the chance. You will see, however, that almost a majority of these last amendments by the Ministry of Finance are a matter of dates. They have no substance. These are European directives. In the controversy about the procedure, I accept the criticism that we are late. We got old, and maybe we could be more effective, but I don't even accept what Mr. Metarakis said, that it's never happened before, because, when it used to be, it was about the clientele, as Gregory said, my old companion. Then it was. There's no clientele here. No one's serving. These are things that have to go through, because we have some dates by the end of the year. I'm not saying it's right. You have every reason to complain about the procedure and the government needs to find how it works better so that these things don't happen. However, this is another thing: clientele, another thing: 'It has never been done in this Parliament'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u342	That's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u343	It has been when we were in the House since 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Fisherman, I'd like to update on what you're saying. In 2014 - at the end of the year - sixteen amendments were tabled and the following eighteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u345	Twenty-four are only today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u346	I mean, that it is a bad practice - to recognise this - which, unfortunately, is repeated at the end of the year and the latest bills are loaded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u348	Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou, I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u349	I'll only need thirty seconds. It's not a bad practice. It's a fraudulent practice. Last week there was a bill, where the Minister could bring in an amendment. It's happening now so no discussion can be held. The same goes for the lifting of criminal responsibilities, where it was not for it to come today. They could've brought her in months ago. Mr President, if he does not retire, you can tell us, because there is no debate left.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u350	Let me tell you. In what you say it is a fraudulent practice, I have this to say: to accept that this House needs time to study the amendments. Give time to this information, study, comments etc., and continue the process tomorrow or Saturday, if you like. We should extend the procedure so that Parliament can look at these amendments. Because, as I said, they are amendments that come at the end of the year really with accumulated problems. It's been done several times before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u351	Please, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u352	The President of the House would like to speak. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, the fact that we would have this problem - because it is a problem - at the last sitting was known to the Conference of Presidents, where we committed ourselves to the last bill, which is the next one, of the evening, to not having any amendments. That is why this volume of amendments, which is not a hundred and seventy, has been collected, but twenty-one if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u354	It's about thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no. They're specific. It's twenty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u356	Along with the parliamentarians is twenty-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u357	They're twenty-one ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u358	Excuse me. At the Conference of Presidents we discussed twice, that we are obviously prepared - and we should all be prepared - if, indeed, there are the reasons why the ministers are invoking - I have now heard Mr Tsakalotos and there are those reasons - that this House should operate through the procedure we have. This House is not a school, ladies and gentlemen. I think we all agree on that. We have no obligation to shut down, not to take a vacation. There is tomorrow, on Saturday, and there are also the dates of 27 and 28 December, to study, to study all these issues, amendments relating to deadlines or to public commitments, which are of public interest and public interest - at least most of them, as well as other deadlines - and to decide how to decide, without raising the tone and responding to the issues of laundry, etc., which have been raised since this morning. I would like to say to you that this House was forced to finish its legislative work on 9 December - perhaps you do not remember it - because it was immediately afterwards the pre-dated debate and immediately after the five-day budget, where, under the Rules of Procedure, during the budgetary debate, no legislative work can come to Parliament. That's the truth. All the others I have heard since this morning - I have followed all the debate - which do not take into account this pressure of time, but raise issues with various adjectives to the adequacy of the Ministers, the adequacy of the Ministerial Council, the failure to adequacy of the government, and what I have now heard from Mr Papatheodoros, that it is done by the wicked and in particular, they have no basis. Parliament had to stop its legislative work on 9 December if we were to close - as agreed by the Conference of Presidents - tomorrow with the timely question that the New Democracy is asking. This material, therefore, has been accumulated throughout this time because there could not be a plenary with another task. It was forbidden. I do not want to go into detail, but I am forced, because I have heard some figures about what happened to the previous government. The older ones will remember - for example, Mrs Manolakou remembers it very well - that in 2014 they had come for the same or other reasons - I am not criticising now, retrospectively - a hundred and eleven amendments, together with the parliamentary amendments - thirty-eight in total were the ministers - and forty-three of them were voted on 24 December at night. And we were here, everyone we were here. I am giving all the information calmly, calmly and for those who are here and for those who are to come after 17.00 hours an hour - because I have been informed that this policy of exploitation and exploitation will continue at a higher level - because we have discussed these at two Conferences of Presidents, so that I can also guard from any crowns that may arise this afternoon. But here we will be in the afternoon if other representatives come to say the same thing. So the proposal is straightforward. The House continues tomorrow, on Saturday and on December 27th and 28th, with our comfort, we are all studying these and we see which one may be of the evil one. I don't prejudge, as you say. I don't think there's anything like that. We are, however, closing down with all the issues relating either to working time and must be met, either by international treaties and commitments of the country, or by major issues that should be closed in 2018. That's what's gonna happen. And it will be done through Parliament's regular procedure. And I do not understand how, while the tones were not raised yesterday and the day before, we had two Conferences of Presidents and knew that all the amendments together - the rest of the Ministries that had been processed - will not come at all - this was the commitment and correctly - this morning, that this climate will be shaped, one after another to say 'washing machines', etc. Anyone who says "washing machines" should prove it. In any case, the procedure, by a plenary decision - I suggest it - will continue tomorrow and Saturday - we will not close, no one has told us to close, we made the decision, the Conference of Presidents said that the House could close - and, of course, on 27 and 28 December the whole legislative work will be completed by the regular procedure rather than the urgent one. I believe it is an institutional proposal, with which we can all agree. I'm not invoking anything else. I would ask you to continue the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Metarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have listened positively to the intervention of the President of Parliament, who recognises that there is an objective issue in the way that Parliament is trying to legislate today. Allow me, with all due respect, Mr President, to raise two points. Firstly, I understand - and I have also discussed it with the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakaloto - that issues can always arise at the end of the year, which must be resolved within specific deadlines. This bill, Mr President, was tabled to the House last Friday. He came by committee on Monday. The majority of the amendments came during the debate and many now. Mr President, if the government had submitted almost all the amendments to the committee on Monday, we would not have raised this issue in plenary today. We would have been able to see them on Monday, they would have been incorporated into the bill and they would have come to plenary today. I do not understand, Mr President, what happened this morning to many ministers. Now they find out they have deadlines? I understand that there was the budget for five days. On Monday, however, the Government and the Conference of Presidents chose to bring this bill to the committee. Uh, 80% of the amendments were not ready on Monday or - to say it better - should they not be ready on Monday? Because otherwise, of course, we'll go in the next few days. Our parliamentary duties are advanced by any other obligation. Mr President, if you will allow me to comment on the laundry issue. Within this draft law, and within these amendments, there are provisions that the Government is calling for the ex post legalisation of expenditure in the Ministries of Migration Policy, Home Affairs, Rural Development, Defence, Foreign Affairs, Finance, Civil Protection, Culture and Maritime Affairs. It is for this House - officially today, Mr President, we are not making any suspicion, we are not saying anything suspicious - expenditure which has been rejected on the basis of public accounting or on the basis of European Union regulations, where there is a subsidy from the European Union, to be retrospectively legalised. Perhaps it is slow to say the word 'washer'. Maybe we should think of one more thing as we have to say a word. I'm sorry, but that word came up. Shall we call it "exploitation"? How do you want to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u363	Dry cleaner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u364	Dry cleaner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u365	We've been to Oxford, Mr. Chakalote, how do we call it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u366	Only the ministers explained one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, on these specific expenditures one - we do not know who it is. A general framework has been said to us, some examples have been chosen, we do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u368	Violation by all the Ministers of all the provisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u369	That is why, Mr President, this issue has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Metarakis, the expenses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u371	But we don't have the expenses. Do you know that for the Ministry of National Defence's amendment the State General Accounting Report, Mr Minister, does not provide for the amount of costs that are subsequently legitimised? Is there a provision to legitimise expenditure and the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State is vacant? It says, "There are costs". How many? A hundred thousand euros? A million? Ten million? A hundred million? Why doesn't the General Accounting Office say so? I don't doubt Mr. Vitsa. The General Accounting Office of the State why doesn't he tell us? These are the data, Mr President. When Mr Petropoulos took the floor to present an amendment, we were looking to find out what the amendment is. So, in the morning he couldn't have come? That is why suspicion, doubt and most importantly all are created, the citizens who are listening to us doubt whether we all know what we are voting on. Because when we have taken the amendment now, the truth is that we do not know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u372	Will the process change?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u373	So let's get to know when we're going to go on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u374	We'll come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u375	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u376	Don't take the floor if I don't give you that, please. We're not going to make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u377	I would like to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u378	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, I have asked for the floor for a very long time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u380	I'll give everyone the floor in turn. Mr. Vitsats a little would answer a question that exists. Mr Vitsa, say a word on the substance of what has been said and we shall proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, only on the basis of the substance. For the costs of the Ministry of Migration Policy and the costs of the Ministry of National Defence, which have been two different things, for about five hours - if I am not mistaken - I have submitted them to the secretariat - and they have been given to you by journalists outside - the relevant documents, where it has one - one. And it's all in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u382	We don't have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u383	In fact, I gave it to you on Monday for the expenditure of the Ministry of Migration Policy. I didn't just give it to you now. I gave it to you on Monday. And the costs, however, of your Ministry of National Defence, I've submitted them - because I've already asked for it, that it doesn't go without having exactly the costs - one - one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u384	Good. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u385	Three things, Mr President. We did not agree at the Conference of Presidents that we accept the rain of the amendments. This cannot be used as an alibi for this process. Secondly, the New Democracy Government had, of course, over a hundred amendments in 2014. We left...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u386	Sixteen was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u387	We left. It was over a hundred and it was Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u388	Let the Secretariat tell us how many they were.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Maniot, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u390	Don't compete in the evils between you two, instead of correcting them. Thirdly, when it comes in the form of an urgent procedure, which means that each rapporteur speaks for eight minutes, make use of the Bureau's tolerance of ten and eleven minutes, when the amendments are retrospectively tabled, and in fact important, he does not have the right to speak. So it's objectively melting. To say why he disagrees, to say why he has consequences for the world or even his deal. This process is therefore degenerating. The Bureau should also take action. The JRC will not continue to do so, nor will it maintain it. Ladies and gentlemen, we leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u391	I keep from the previous positions - and please move in the same spirit - Mr Mitsarakis' reasoning, which concludes that he would have no objection - if I understood correctly, I do not want to interpret you otherwise - to discuss what day, how many more hours it takes, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u392	It'll also open a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u393	Sure. I would ask you - Mr Papatheodorou, first of all, to put yourself on the proposal - with your own view of course - of the President of the Parliament, as Mr Metarakis has said and to come up with what you are going to do. Mrs. Manolaku has been placed. We're listening, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, I have already told you that there have been amendments before. If we go to the prolongation of work, then you have to tell us from now on that we will have regular speakers, that we will have the time for dentistry, that we will go through regular procedures and not with the procedures that we have done today, so far. So if there is a commitment that tomorrow we will continue with the list of speakers, we certainly have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u395	It will be as I said before, and the President of Parliament said before, that in the amendments - if we have a good time - we will proceed with the normal procedure so that there will be no problem. And it's fair. Mr Pallis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, obviously, as you can see, we have no objection to the amendments being discussed. We believe that the government has brought in amendments which do not respond to the insulting statements made by colleagues. We are available to continue the debate tomorrow. And if there is also a possibility of listing speakers on the amendments, we will of course accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, we welcome the proposal from the President of Parliament and since the procedure is now normal, and we agree with the proposal from the Change Movement. And since you have proved it, we have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u399	Very good. Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, with all due respect to the President of this House, to Mr Voutsi, the time to discuss these amendments and all these issues, does not suffice until the night of the New Year to keep the House constantly open. I'm not being ironic. We don't make plates, it's not funny what I'm saying. We cannot discuss this volume of arrangements and issues that need to be resolved, or which we put them in a package, if the House does not stay open at all, with a specific working hours, and we are all here to study all this amount of material, which we need to take care of within five days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u401	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u402	This procedure is unprecedented for the Greek Parliament. And if in the past some have made such arrangements in packages, now, the current government is not like others, it is a progressive, left-wing government, a different logic of procedure and ethos, which wants to correct the bad texts of the previous triogues, who have forty years been afflicted by the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u403	Fine, fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u404	Whenever these practices, with the logic and the alibi that others did, are for movies of black and white cinema, for Mavroyalures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u405	Thank you. The President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u406	Obviously, I do not want to criticise the expressions of 'principal arrangements' and 'washing machines' and so on. I raised an issue - it is not an argument - which was in your knowledge - and I wonder from the morning that this procedure has been taking place, because you did not realize it - that, in fact, this House, since 9 months ago, could not legislate. To know that. Let's know. And you know how it happened and what the Rules of Procedure says. They couldn't get in between, embolism. I would like to clarify that it is clear that all this material, this material, concerns serious cases of the ministries, which respond and have a bearing on the public interest and on the date that this time will expire.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u407	Why didn't they come to the committee, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u408	Please. It is also clear that there is a delay for some of them, which has to do with either the CSE, either the General Accounting Office of the State, or issues which ended in due course on Monday or Tuesday. The ministers know better and ask them to explain them thoroughly to give them and to write them in the Minutes, such as on the reasonable subject you raised, because on Monday there was not all of these amendments. Nor should we make any setbacks with the past. We referred to the past because the figures I have told you come from the post and from the services of this House. It was a special time back then. You remember in December 2014 and that we entered January where this matter was collected. This was mentioned only to substantiate - so that we all know - how this material is always gathered by the end of the year and not because some want to make arrangements to their own people. This material is collected, which is in this case, because it also had the happy event of 21 August this year, which is obviously for costs which are released or for possibilities released to the Ministries after the end of the Memorandum of Understanding. There's that one, too. I speak politically so long as I talk about these arguments. I would therefore ask, after the next bill has been finished, which, I repeat, has no amendments - and I say this afternoon - for the afternoon - for tomorrow, with our comfort, after the New Democracy's timely question for the ICCU has ended, for as long as necessary, to continue the debate on the bill - we have on Saturday morning, but it may be that, if necessary, this procedure - so that, as a minimum, I fully respect all the amendments - the Members' colleagues have also been consulted. It is reasonable, and it is right to come to the Chamber, because no votes can be taken without this study being carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u409	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Some other placement won't add anything more. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance has already answered. I think he accepts the time proposed by the President of Parliament. Mr. Metarakis said the same thing. The JRC took another position. It doesn't make any sense. You will allow me to continue the normal procedure. Before we continue, however, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students as well as a teacher from the 4th Corinth High School (first section). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u411	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u412	Because this has been the case, and since, in my opinion, the President's proposal has been wise, we must now suspend and start tomorrow at the end of the time, so that the other process can be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u413	If we stop now, we'll interrupt until 17:00, because another bill begins. So if the House agrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, to say two - three words about the amendments which have not been tabled for ten minutes - I do not know how much it will take - so that Members may have an idea, and then close the sitting. That makes more sense to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u415	Good. Ms. Papanaceu, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. With this amendment, as the Minister said before, we are dealing with issues that should have been resolved by the end of the year. So, in the first part, reported on ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products, it is bioethanol, which is a mixture in petrol. Bioethanol from 1-1-2019 should be a part of the fuels that will be moved. It is up to our country, from 1-1-2019, to have bioethanol in the fuel mixes. For contracts - are the amendment to Article 72 of the Code of Income Tax - Financial Lease concluded before the entry into force of this Code, the applicable rules set out in the Code of Income Tax shall apply. Annex 3 of the VAT Code is amended and tickets to the theatrical performances and concerts, for which the rate of tax is set at 6%. It's necessary because the concerts are closed. If we didn't do it now, it would have to go from 1-4-2019, so it would be an issue for people who close the concert agreements from the beginning of the year. We're giving a chance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u417	Three days ago, didn't you know? Mercy! It's a disgrace to what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u418	Mr Maniotis, these amendments have been tabled since the beginning of last month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u419	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u420	I'm sorry, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u421	You're insulting the entire House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u422	It's just, you know, all the financial staff were engaged in budgeting all the time and that the two ministers were abroad. These issues also had to be seen by the departments of the other ministries, because, as you can see, too many ministers are signing up. So both the services and the ministers and the State's General Accounting Office had to agree. I continue: Amendment of Article 13 of Law 2238/94. The words ‘Included after any existing equipment...’ shall be replaced by ‘... after lease or purchase of any existing equipment’. The amendment of Article 10 of Law 2579/98 is the period 31-12-19 for the carriage of vehicles of the CBELs, lorries, taxis, in general for vehicles of public use. Article 41 has to do with the process of starting up prices of the objective values. In this case, the rapporteurs of the certified valuers, registered in the Register of Certified Estimates of the Real Estate of the Ministry of Finance, are those who introduce the starting prices to the Minister of Finance to make the decisions. A three-member committee, set up by a decision of the Minister of Finance, is also set up, consisting of a staffer of the Legal Council of State, as its deputy, proposed by the Chairman of the Legal Council of State and the Head of the Independent Department of State Estimates and Determination of Property Values of the General Secretariat of Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance and by the Head of the Administration of Capital Taxation and Incorporation of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. A six-member committee is also set up in each regional section. It's like the oldest committees. In the same way, six committees are now being set up in each regional section to draw up a suggestion on the configuration of the areas within its jurisdiction and the coefficients of increase in Article 1 under the number 1067780/9-6/94 of the Minister for Finance. So, what are we doing here? We are recommending the committees, which should say which new zones will be incorporated into the objective. Also amendments to AAOs. and T.O. And through them, we will extend the issue of objective zones, as well as the setting of new prices for objective zones. The following is the amendment to Article 25 of L.4354/2015. Take into account the whole service...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, it presents the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, there is no agreement! I have asked for the floor earlier precisely so that we do not have that. Why do you know where this leads? Today the Minister will present what we said had to be withdrawn and eventually tomorrow, which the rest of us will speak, there will be no one here. Mr Vitsats told you before to interrupt today and to be obliged to be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u425	We'll be here! We'll be here and answer your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u426	The ministers will all be here to answer possible questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u427	A first introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u428	If you don't want to, I don't want to make the suggestion. But listen, and from there we will be here to answer your questions as long as you need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u429	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u430	Amendment of Article 25 of Law No.4354. It shall be taken into account for the whole service that has been performed and taken into account for the wage classification and development of the lowest category, retroactively from 1-1-2016. In the next article, they are arrangements concerning annual yields for the benefit of third parties from the State budget. Ten percent stays like an income in the state budget. In 2014 it was extended until 31/12-2018 of 2018. Now, we're on our way to prolong until 31-12-2022. An opportunity is given for the movement of Armed Forces personnel. The adoption of the Presidential Decree setting out the new amount, terms and conditions of payment of internal travel expenses and the training allowance for officials of the Armed Forces shall be extended until 30-6-2019 to become the Presidential Decree setting out these conditions. We also have an extension of the deadline for the performance of duties by the Ministry of National Defence DG. Here we want to establish the Ministry of Economic Services Directorate-General for National Defence. We give them the opportunity to create it by 31-12-2019. In the following article, Amendment first L.4254/2014 and Article 5 of L.4244/2014, we are coming and reintroducing the extension for ODAs, insurance and tax information. We exclude them until 31-12-2019. In the next, we have the amendment of Article 63 of Law 4174/2013. Here we are giving the opportunity to someone who has made a pleading appeal to the Office responsible for examining the matter to be dealt with in the Council of State, if the relevant matter to which he has referred and the hundred and twenty days are not sufficient for the decision of the Council of State to be taken, to request a suspension until the decision of the Council of State has been taken. And the deadline is again given to the Dispute Resolution Directorate, of a hundred and twenty days in some cases, to have an extension of thirty days to make the relevant opinions. With the amendment of Article 47 of Law 4484/2017 by decision of the Ministry of Finance and at the request of the President of the HR, officials of the Ministry of Finance may also be transferred. Finally, an amendment to Article 102 of Law 4270. According to the new accounting framework established by the d.d.54/2018, the unsettled balances of the LFS should go to the Bank of Greece as well as the remaining unsettled balances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u431	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u432	Take this into account, too. There is the ELTA amendment, where you know that many commitments have been made in recent years, to deal with many problems, such as in the regions, etc. It is the universal service, which we say, and the amendment allows them to take the money they own, which is above the cost that they would otherwise have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u435	If I may. He wants Mr. Army to say two words about an amendment he has.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u436	Mr President, on a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, I would like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u438	Two minutes. We won't proceed until we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u439	That is the procedure I told you before. If this story goes on with the amendments, we simply leave. I told you. And not only do we leave, but you know the following: the amendments have been tabled, there is no more. Tomorrow, when it goes on, we will be explained by the Ministers. The Minister has made a proposal, you told us you accepted and continued.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u440	The problem is, let me get this straight...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u441	Look, Mr. Papatheodorou is a university and he can read them and he doesn't want an introduction now. You don't have to, he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u442	You're making the suggestion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u443	Enough! You made it the 20:00 show. You've got enough for the 20:00 cards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u444	You're going to make the suggestion tomorrow that you told us you'd be here! To listen to the speakers, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u445	I say to you, those Members who want to hear a first suggestion about what these amendments are to sit down. You can read them yourself. We're not doing anything else than the one we agreed on. The debate was agreed to take place tomorrow and we asked if you would like to make a first suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u448	Yes, to present the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u449	You don't want to? Get out of here! That's not a pain. This is for the help of Members. Mr. Papatheodorou, because you're a university, I think you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u450	I understand very well. I absolutely understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u451	I think you should stop doing a show. You were also dean. Please! We inform the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u452	You don't inform the House. The agreement was that speakers would be enrolled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u453	That's enough of the show. Enough! We had a very long patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u454	Well, let's move on to the process. Be careful, what Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos said is that the presentation of amendments actually explains some things that may be possible at first reading... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Before we interrupt, they are two-thirds - and less - explanations of amendments from Mr. Army and Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u455	Mr. President! I'd like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u457	Mr President, Minister, it is reasonable that you want to find a good way to ball what you had planned to do at the last minute. We refuse to participate in this process. There is no time to discuss all this. The Minister for three, five minutes could not even read what she has to say to us. When are we gonna talk about it? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't interrupt me! You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u458	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u459	You're welcome, Mr. President. Please, the protection of the Bureau. I've taken the floor. Please, the protection of the Bureau, so that we do not have any issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u460	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u461	To close this, because - I see - all of this is not being studied or discussed or a list of speakers can be opened to discuss this in the next two or three days, we with the wheelchair you brought them in, with the same wheelbarrow we take them and leave. We're not voting for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u462	Good. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u463	On staff, Mr. President. The Minister referred to something earlier and I say it very calmly. Do you know what the procedure is, Minister? Not sit here and analyze what the questions are, but be here in the answers. So what I am saying to you is this: if the speakers are to be written, the procedure must be started and there must be one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u464	We told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u465	No, Minister. You'll hear. There should be Members in the Chamber and now there are no other parties. So what I have proposed is self-evident, that is to say, to bother coming tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u466	They'll all be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, they don't want information now. They want an update tomorrow. Let's do the briefing tomorrow. We wanted to help you do it so that you could have a first picture. Don't you want a first picture? We're doing it tomorrow. That's not why we're gonna fight about it. There's nothing here. You don't want her today? We're leaving tomorrow. I have no problem with that, nor with Mr. Army. To help you, I told you to make a first update because there was a gap by 17:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u468	Can you help us? You are insulting Parliament! Aren't you ashamed? You're talking already?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u469	Come on, Mr. Maniot. You're on TV!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u470	Minister, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u471	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u472	I think we can stop the process here and continue tomorrow. Mr. Vitsa, do you want to say something before we close?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u473	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u474	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u475	I say: First of all, to render Caesar's Caesar, Caesari, on December 22, 2014, a bill of sixty-eight articles became a bill of hundred-eight articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u476	Sixteen amendments, not a hundred. Ask the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u477	There are no settlings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u478	Sixteen amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u479	And eighty-eight Members of Parliament, Mr Manatis, of whom eleven were accepted. Leave it now. I don't blame you and you feel accused? I don't understand you. I say this, after reminding you that since yesterday the eighth eighth eighty-eighth has been tabled. I'm just saying it about the Minutes. It is an amendment from the Ministry of Migration Policy. You know her, you've had her since morning. The President said that we can take advantage of the time by 17.00 hours, make a first presentation by the ministers. The ministers will necessarily be here tomorrow. What time do we start after the timely question? At 14:00? We'll go for as long as it takes. That's what I'm telling you. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u480	Good, Minister. I don't think we have anything else to say. We can interrupt here, continue with the presentations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u481	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u482	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for an hour now. Are you doing what you don't see me? Everybody's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u484	No, it's not like that, not everyone talks. Parliamentary representatives are speaking, positioned and move on. We won't have a generalised debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u485	Are you doing what you don't see me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u486	I have seen you on several occasions, but I have seen Mr Varvitsiotis, but the procedure is not progressing by speaking. Your parliamentary representative spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u487	A written replacement of the Parliamentary Representative has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u488	Please. And Mr. Maniatis was asking for the floor, and I didn't give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u489	I am a rapporteur and have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u490	Don't go on. We cannot give the floor to the rapporteurs too. When procedural matters are created, the Parliamentary Representatives shall be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, why don't you give me the floor? I can explain that the parliamentary representative has been replaced in writing. Seek it from the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u492	Have you changed the parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u493	He declared himself, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u494	These are unprecedented things and are not accepted. They can't be accepted. Do we change in the middle of the process? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u495	You are totally unacceptable. The procedure is unacceptable. Your behavior is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u496	My behavior is fine. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u497	This procedure is unacceptable! We will not let you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure. You'll have to comply, as we do. You can give me the floor, as you have given it to other colleagues before. I asked you to speak as a Member of Parliament and you are doing what you do not see me! There are amendments and everyone is entitled to speak on them and you are not giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u498	You don't sound and they're not written, as you understand. Don't make it difficult. We're moving on with Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u499	I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u500	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u501	Why don't you give him to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u502	You do not have the floor, because there is no general debate. Parliamentary representatives are speaking, sitting and closing. It was Mr. Papatheodorou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u503	He was the rapporteur, Mr. Papatheodorou. Would you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u504	You don't have the floor. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u505	Because I will be in Serbia tomorrow, the Deputy Minister of State will be here, Mr Mavraganis. I imagine that it will not be an amendment with which you will disagree. There is a debt quite large, as you know, to the OSH from the years before the privatization of the organization. This means that it cannot receive any money from either the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Education for Social Welfare, so if the amendment does not pass on to the public fund, the workers cannot be paid. It's an immediate need. That is why the clearing of these requirements for the OSH is suspended and a proof of tax information can be issued in order to obtain the money it is to receive. The State Secretary will be here tomorrow to explain to colleagues the necessity. I'll be gone abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u506	Today is the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u507	We'll have second thoughts tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u508	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u509	I think that when you make a decision, it should be observed. But I want to say a word. He said the dear President of Parliament that since 9 December we could not legislate, gather all this and accept that they had to come. Since 9 December was ready, they should have come to the committees. They didn't come to the committees. Can you explain to me why it is within what is needed, that is, real issues relating to the reasonable extension beyond 31 December or other deadlines? Why does it include a number of regulations that do not have the character of urgency? Secondly, a major issue concerning citizens is the extension of the provisions of Law 3869 on the protection of first residence, which must indeed be extended. Mr. Drasakis said here very directly: "We are not ready. We will make legislative acts and move on." I don't understand. Democracy is equipped with all tools and these tools can be exploited. Of course not all of this will go, but what is not urgent is to remove it until tomorrow. We cannot go through provisions that want dialogue, debate, consensus and improvement, because the legislative work is here to improve the provisions. They can't go far without the House talking about it. I would therefore ask you, of course, not to table another amendment - this is a'red line' for us - and to withdraw and to withdraw those who have nothing to do with the extension of deadlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u510	If I may say something about what you said from my point of view, the questions you raised - why some of them are being tabled, while they are not urgent - could be put to the respective ministers one by one, that is, asking why the amendments are of this nature rather than the other. Already Mrs Papanatsiou replied that the amendment was in place since the 9th day of the month, but she had to go to the economic staff, which for service and other reasons was in Brussels, and that is why it could not be done. I think that such questions and possibly similar answers should also be found by the other Ministers. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor, following on from the fact that I gave Mr Kegeroglu the floor, and then the Minister has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u511	Mr President, both the Rules of Procedure and the logic require that the Minister should explain the urgency of the matter. We, Mr President, really think that today the government has retreated into our request, but only in advance. Because the majority of those who have tried to deliver are not in the form of urgency and are not justified as urgent. I would suggest that, if you really want to respect the concept of democracy and proper legislature, withdraw all those that are not urgent. Mrs Papanatsiou is not an emergency at all. It is not the regulation of alcohol matters that is an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u512	It's not alcohol. Read it a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u513	But I have to read it! You filed it an hour ago. You're saying you've got it since the 9th of the month ready. You're causing me! You're causing me! An hour ago you filed it! Eighty-five pages, and you demand that we read it? Please! I say: Because you compare other times, do you forget that in 2014 the two votes had been completed for the President of the Republic incomplete and with your own choice you had thrown the government away? Do you forget? Are you in the same condition? Are you falling? Do you feel like you're falling, that you've wasted time to regulate things that you could set up?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u514	You guys fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u515	I say and insist on the description of the laundry for all the provisions mentioned by Mr Metarakis. However, tomorrow we will only discuss what is of a form and an urgency. What has no form and urgency is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u516	You'll tell us tomorrow, Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u517	Good. Does the House agree to suspend the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u518	So we're interrupting here for the bill that's at 17:00. The debate at this point stops until tomorrow, after the timely question, so that we can have a list of speakers with our comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u519	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We shall now proceed to the second draft legislation, according to the supplementary agenda for legislative work. Only debate and vote on the principle of discussion of the articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘State it from 11.12.2018 Agreement amending its Provisions of Concession for the Project ‘Study, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Exploitation of the Car of Central Greece (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168), as amended: (a) by the Amendment Agreement of 28.11.2013 ‘Amendment Agreement on the Provisions of the Concession Convention’ ratified by the second paragraph of Article 2 of Law 4219/2013 ‘State Concession Agreements’, ratified by Article 44 of the Concession Agreement and on related issues’ (A'269) and (b) by the 19.12.2013 ‘Amendment Agreement on Amendment of the Concession Agreement of 28.11.2013 Amendment of the Concession Agreements’, amended by Article 44 of the Financial Provisions of the Concession Agreement and of 22 May 2015 (A.43/2015)’. This bill, after the decision of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 19 December 2018, the debate on the principle and on the articles will be concluded at a maximum of 10 o'clock. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives, as well as an Independent MEP, are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose, on the basis of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that one speaker be appointed by each parliamentary group and one speaker by the Independent Members. Finally, I propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking time, the Bureau proposes that the rapporteurs and special speaker should have eight minutes, the competent ministers should have ten minutes, the remaining ministers or State Secretarys should have five minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group should have ten minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups should have eight minutes, the parliamentary representatives should have six minutes and the parties designated to have five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u520	The House has agreed. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Apostleos Karastasis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, I will ask for your time tolerance. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify by the vote of Parliament the Convention on the Construction of an important project, a section of the E65 motorway, namely the Central Greece Motorway, which is part of the trans-European networks and is a project that has been described as a project of national importance. In summary, the construction course of the E65 is described as follows: In 2007 under a concession contract, the concessionaire awarded the project to the concessionaire for the design, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the Central Greece Motorway. This contract was ratified by Law 3597/2007 on Government Kostas Karamanlis, and then Minister of State, Mr Souflis. The European Union, in particular the third Community Support Framework and the ESDP, was to co-finance this plan. The work has been considerably delayed to begin for several reasons, such as expropriations and archaeology. When he finally started, his cost had already been significantly out of the budget, whenever in combination with the economic crisis that took place, we led in 2011 to the closure of construction work in the absence of the necessary funds. Thus, following negotiations, the Contracting Parties concluded on 28 November 2013 in the Agreement amending the initial concession agreement ratified by Law 4219/2013 on Government of Samara in an effort to allow the project to be relaunched by ensuring viability in the given economic conditions. The amendment agreement agreed to build directly the middle part of the Xyniad - Trikala project, with huge reactions from all actors from four regions, from the OTAs, from chambers and other bodies and to postpone the construction of the other sections, the south, from zero to the thirty-third kilometre, from PATHE to Xyniad and the northern one to the eighteenth to the eighth half, from Trikala to Ennatia, for a period of up to three years after the completion of the T1 construction period, within which the public would be entitled to require the construction by the concessionaire of the whole or part of the deferred parts, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the 2013 Agreement. In other words, it was agreed that if the public wants to do so, it could ask the concessionaire within a period of time to build one or more parts that were excluded and if they were injurious, to pay him the damage. This is the convention and the situation that we inherited. I insist on the 2013 amendment, because in discussing the ratification of this Convention in the relevant committee we have seen with surprise from the Opposition and in particular from the New Democracy also calling for the change. In this convention, then, a change in the definition of the whole of the northern part had been decided, which, in a way, changed the economic characteristics. However, I think that it was right that the engraving had changed, because the entire part was moving from Kalambaia to Egnatia in the nine hundred and fifty meters of altitude and the new engraving now moves to six hundred and fifty meters, with what that means, both for snowmaking and especially in winter for the frost. So, as the proverb says: 'Where we were owed, we were taken by the ox.' Instead of apologizing for the roughness they planned and tried to carry out the work on his unprecedented mutilation, which became a path out of nowhere - I said yesterday that they were forced to make eight kilometres of motorway so that they could drive from Xenia to Trikala - ultimately for the same agreement that they made and which was reflected in a 2013 amendment, we are being called for because we have implemented this amendment. We were told that we poorly contacted the concessionaire for the continuation of the work that should be auctioned. But, they had agreed to the procedure in 2013, that was the 2013 agreement. On the contrary, they did not say a word about the condition of the financing of possible damage to the contractor, which they had agreed, and we succeeded in repeating it. As for the auction they mentioned, very simply if we did not follow the 2013 contract and auction the project, it was never going to be executed, because they would not be financed by the NRP now. We have also been told that the famous DGICOM, the Competition Directorate of the European Commission, had doubts and had a suspicion about this convention, which is why it was delaying its adoption. I am really sorry, and I think this is a shame to be said within the House. Why am I saying that? In March 2018, the report of the European Court of Auditors on the period until 31 December 2014, the European Court of Auditors and it is the full vindication of what we have said about the New Democracy Conventions and the revisions, of the delays in the implementation of the projects, of the fact that we received stopped, abandoned projects not only with large amounts, but also with great loose ends over 50% in expropriations, permits and archaeological works. Specifically for EN65, the report states that 55% of the natural object has been reduced, while at the same time contracts have increased by 47% in appropriations. The European Union also says that it was wrongly calculated and the frequency of road crossings, since in 2013 it was estimated to use a thousand seven hundred ninety two vehicles per day, i.e. 63% lower than the original budget. These are the reasons for DIGICOM's suspicion and not the content of the contract we have submitted. Your actions are, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, which are internationally stigmatizing the country and which will consume us for many years and not the convention that we have drawn up. On the contrary, we in the middle of the crisis managed to complete or launch the completion of all the major projects that you left, while winning for the country a sum of EUR 700 million and then a reduction of the demand for the concessionaires through tough negotiations. And to finish with what opposition says, I will say that until we take over the country's governance there was no uniform rule for concession contracts. The contracts that were concluded at that time were different from each other, allowing for the inconsistency of the situation that I described above. We under the laws 4413 and 4364 of 2016 set rules in public procurement and ensured that approvals, archaeology and accompanying works, expropriations and others will no longer be a brake on the construction of works. I shall return, Mr President, to the convention to be ratified. By exercising it under the concession agreement, the State decided in August 2015 to initiate the process of construction of the southern deferred part of PATHE - Xeniad by the concessionaire. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, in order to further safeguard the public interest, the State imposed additional conditions on the concessionaire for the implementation of this deferred section beyond those introduced in the 2013 concession agreement. In 2016, after negotiation, the concessionaire accepted these additional conditions and thus the State informed the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission of its intention to exercise its contractual right to build this deferral. Finally, the European Commission, in its decision of 19-10-18, now in October, having considered the proposed amendments to the concessions, considered that this is compatible with the internal market in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thus, as of 11 December 2018, an amendment to the concession contract that is currently in force for ratification in the Parliament has emerged in order to ensure that the above-mentioned conditions that the concessionaire has made to the concessionaire are incorporated into the concession agreement and become binding on the Contracting Parties. The agreement is approved by the Court of Auditors. What, however, are the conditions which the public has set the concessionaire for further contractual and economic improvement of its position? Firstly, the project costs will amount to approximately EUR 306 million, with funding from the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement, without co-financing, as is expected from 2013. From this amount, the cost of the project is 300 million as foreseen in the original contract of 2007. In other words, after eleven years, there was an increase in the original price. The sum of EUR 6 million relates to the restoration of unfinished work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u522	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u523	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Of all the concessions, for two, E65 and the Morea Motorway, there was in their initial contracts a subsidy for the operation of these works, in the event that it was injurious to the concessionaire due to a low traffic burden. In 2013, this concessionaire’s right to the central part of the E65 was abolished and replaced by the right to cross-subsidisation with the Ionian Road. I mean, we had the transporting vessels. For the southern part discussed, the concessionaire, in order to facilitate the financing of the project by the State, resigned - and this is very important - from both the right to grant and the possibility of cross-subsidisation with another section. In practice, this means that the project will be operated and maintained during the concession, i.e. until 2018, from its revenues alone and the concessionaire will have to cover any deficit from its own resources. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has made every effort to bring to the public interest the construction of a very important project that the previous governments have failed to manage. We've proved we can go where everyone else couldn't. Before I close, I would also like to stress the Minister's commitment, as expressed in the debate in the committee responsible, to the construction of all the necessary support projects, particularly those of the anti-military nature, to launch the anti-military armour for these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting an end to the prediction that in three years' time, for the first time within a timetable for this scale, the southern part of the E65 will have been completed. In other words, in thirty-six months, it will probably be completed and it will probably be completed sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u524	Mr. Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the E65 has been an opportunity for the committee to hear very interesting things. Unfortunately, however, given that the government has once again opted for the urgent procedure, we have not been able to hold a constructive dialogue and have not been given the opportunity to go into a few issues in greater detail. In yesterday's committee, the Minister said much and not just the E65. So I'm going to take my time here in plenary to try and answer him. However, let us start by E65, a project on the Government of New Democracy was studied, designed, settled, and started to do so. For, Minister, we have said so many times, it was the 2004-2009 period that was planned and started to implement the major road projects that we currently have in our country. Because it was also in the period 2012-2015 that they unlocked, if you like, several projects and unleashed the large projects that had frozen the two years 2010-2012 and the New Democracy was the one that unlocked several projects. But you came to power in 2015 and in the first half of 2015 we again lived what we lived in 2011. In other words, the revolutionary age of delusion and the freezing of large road projects. When you surpassed in 2016, Mr. Spirtzi, these very "good" delusions and finally realized that you cannot change Europe, then you gave the wonderful immunities to start the big projects again. And we're coming to E65. Two to three years have passed to file the file, it has been two to three years to get approval by the European Commission for a piece of thirty to two kilometres south of E65. And I wonder why this has happened since, as you yourself said to the committee, the 2013 law and the moment that you relyed on this law and you come and implement it at this time and the institutions have approved it. So the main question which I think should be answered is why we had this two-three-year delay. We heard the Minister say yesterday that there were many delays over the Samara government because of the problem with expropriations. But you have probably confused something, Minister, because you have now made eight auctions in the Patras - Tower project. Have you completed the expropriations there? Because you have passed a law in 4412, and in particular Article 49, which obliges you before you commence the tenders and before you reconcile the work - which you have not yet done, because you have cut the project - to have complied with the law. So what do we see here? We see you're just not keeping your own law. However, we also see something else: No you are not just observing Law 4412, but you have also done the following thing, which I do not think has happened in the years before: it is a law that has been in force for two years and has not been amended once, two, three or five times, but it has been amended two hundred ninety-seven times. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, when has this been done in time? Never. Obviously, you legislate in this way and you also have the opportunity to criticise us from above. And you know well that if there is a major road project that has been done in recent years in this country, well or bad, it has been done by the previous governments. However, this brings the arrogance and ruthlessness of the "first time on the left". And since I referred to the multitude of Patras - Tower, which all of the Peloponnese expects to see starting, I was amazed to hear the Minister say yesterday that the Patras - Tower is delaying and has not yet been done, not because it has cut the project into eight pieces, but because it had to have at least two strips and sediment. But these aren't serious things. These are no excuses. So, the Patras tower road now that you're auctioning how many lanes it has? It has the ones foreseen in the original study. So I think that in your attempt to justify the huge delay in this really big project that the Peloponnese needs, you are ultimately inventing various excuses. And since it is true that yesterday I listened with great interest to the position of SYRIZA colleagues, I would like to make a little note. The southern part of the E65 that we are debating today, namely Lamia - Xyniada, is the smallest part of the main road. It was part of the concession negotiated by the New Democracy. What did you do? You come - and welcome - and activate the completion of this piece. Why, then, the festivities and cheering? The major road projects, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe, are not completed in four-year horizons. Others are the ones who design them, others are the ones who contravene them, others who slowly implement them and others are inaugurating them. So don't deceive yourself, Mr. Spirtzi. You - and good - are very good at cutting ribbons. But you are not capable, unfortunately, of conforming to one big piece of work. In an attempt to respond to the committee, you referred to the underground passage to Menemen. I did not want to interrupt you in committee, Minister, nor to offend you. However, I was not talking about a project with a budget of EUR 8 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u526	We're done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u527	Just a minute, Minister. Is that what you have to show? I'm talking about BOAK, about Castelli. I'm talking about the big projects that you're incapable of as a government to go ahead. So you come here and say that you finished it. What do you want me to say? Do you want me to say "congratulations"? The four years of your administration for this project are boasting, which was even specific work launched by the municipality with "ERGOSE" in 2014, and, if you like - you have the inability not to let the mayor speak at the opening? These are not serious things and it is good that we all understand that big projects do not belong to parties, do not belong to politicians, they belong to the Greek people. So, to see how things are now, it is time to say some truths about the transport and infrastructure sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The truth is that you deny and cannot answer, that all this time you have not been able to reconcile and begin a major project. That is why the technical world is completely desperate and that is why you are now discussing extending the concession contracts to give the technical companies a natural object. We have told you from the outset and we are now saying that the fact that we are voting for this convention means that we want the work to be done, because, as I said, the projects have a start, an middle and a end, and we wish it to end as soon as possible. This does not mean, however, that we relieve you of the responsibilities for your "good" work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, too. Mr Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u529	Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived in sad times here in Parliament, with an incredible amount of amendments - over two hundred pages - which were tabled late and led to the government's ruthless retreat and fleeing, which said that the debate on this bill will be adjourned and tomorrow, and if necessary on Saturday, it will continue. In fact, we are talking about a Parliament operating in an abnormal country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u530	However, there is not a single amendment here, Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u531	Mr. President, may I continue? We are therefore operating as a Parliament of an unnatural country with incredible hypocrisy and huge turbulence on all issues. I will start with what Mr Tsipras said today from Israel. He said he made the big deal with the Israelis and Cypriots about the East Med pipeline. Mr Tsipras said: 'The road to stability and peace with East Med opens'. Do you know who the East Med pipeline is? It is the pipeline that will cost 5 to 6 billion euros and will carry natural gas from the deposits of Israel and Cyprus through Crete and the Peloponnese to Italy, which Mr Tsipras fought and sabotaged, when all the SYRIZA executives threatened the members of the Board of Directors of the DEPA not to approve a 3 million euro in 2014 to prepare the corresponding feasibility study. For the minutes of the national Parliament, for the first time, I present the letter that I had to send until then Minister on 24 January 2014 to the President of the IPCC, giving a mandate, in order that there will be no concern among the members of the CEPA Board of Directors, so that this pipeline can proceed. For this pipeline, which he sabotaged, Mr Tsipras today proudly says that it is a road to stability and peace. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am also making the agreement that we signed in December 2014 with the European Commissioner and the Cypriot Minister for Energy to proceed with. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And Mr Tsipras continues: 'Respect for the right of Cyprus to exercise its sovereign rights within its exclusive economic zone'. That's a good statement. What, though, did Mr Tsipras do in 2011 to Law 4001, which by Article 156 did the Greek exclusive economic zone? Mr. Tsipras and Article 156 voted against him. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. He also voted against and sabotaged the competition for the twenty marine plots with limits of Greek EEZ that we announced in 2014 and now comes back to say that Cyprus has the right to exercise its sovereign rights in its own EEZ. Didn't Greece have it, too? Just a phrase. Whee-min! At least an elementary apology to history. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday we lived another moment. We have lived with the votes of SYRIZA and Golden Dawn to appoint Mrs Thanano as President of the Independent Authority of the Competition Committee. I would remind you that the right-wing Stavros Dimas, as candidate for accession to the Republic, said he would not accept the votes of the Golden Dawn. Mrs Thanos, however, former President of the Ice Bay and Legal Adviser to the Legal Service of the Prime Minister, has taken it all up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Maniotis, the bill under discussion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, because you realise that I will be as prepared, I would ask you not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u534	You're right. Your time is using it as you think it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u535	So we continue with what has happened in the last few days. This is where the President-in-Office is present is also involved. We're talking about scandals now. Government moral, supposedly, advantage, where scandals now succeed each other. Tomorrow we'll talk about the DEPA-Petsite scandal. We talked about the PPC scandal and the takeover of a scorpion company. We had the Triumph of the Triumph. We had a scandal of 600 million of "Eleftherios Venizelos", where if the European Competition Committee did not intervene, Greek citizens would lose 600 million euros. And we also have the last scandal of 88 million in the Attica Region, your responsibility, Mr. Minister, where there is the “photographic” unprecedented term, that to give insurance for the insurmountability of the Attica road network, the units should be 40 km away from Syntagma Square. After we denounced it, after Yiannis Skouros denounced it, after calling for the disciplinary prosecution of the engineers from the Technical Chamber, the Association of Anonymous Technical Companies, the Independent Authority for the Judicial Reviews comes and says that the term is illegal. And the silence of fish on both sides of the Attica Region and on the part of the Minister, who is responsible for overseeing the proper application of his own legislation, which he himself recommended! But because we now live, as it appears in the country of citizens without an examination, without an examination of fifteen thousand appointments of teachers, without an examination, our children will go to universities, says the Minister of Education. Obviously, without an examination, unfortunately, the country is heading towards a new crisis, where the only solution will be to call for elections. So to come to the bill we are discussing now, which we shall be voting in favour, as we have said in committee, of what is it here? It is intended to amend a contract that became law in 2013, n.4219. It is the concession agreement for the southern part of E65, a project which has been passed by the Court of Auditors, has been passed by the Competition Committee of the European Union. Therefore, on the presumption, it fulfils all the requirements of legality. It is a project that, as we all know, will help decisively in the development of the region of Thessaly and the region of Epirus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you have any kindness in less than three seconds, I will finish. Thank you very much. So because this is a project which we will be voting in favour of anyway, we do not submit our individual comments on this convention, because we believe that the major task is to finally begin to be carried out, after the already implemented section, in the middle and after the south, to move to the north. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u536	Mrs Zaroulia, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. I'd beg for your tolerance. I won't abuse time, but I might need a minute more. We have heard incredible things from PASOK, that there is a democrat who said he will not accept the votes of a legally elected party. We leave this in the Greek people's judgment. Yesterday's committee meeting ended in a cohort between SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK, on the subject of the argument that it was responsible for its policy and its unfortunate options for the construction and completion of the E65 motorway. The answer to this question is very simple. All of you, of the so-called constitutional arch, both you who are now ruling and you who have been ruling in the past and hope to rule in the future, are all responsible for each of you, because you are all the sides of the same currency, all of you are serving the same interests and the same policy. The draft law proposes ratification of the concession contract already signed since 2007 for the project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance and Operation of the Central Greece Motorway E65". First of all, it must be stressed that the construction and completion of road projects through concession contracts is a practice that has been applied for a long time in Greece and has opened the way for the uncontrolled and opaque action of domestic interconnected economic colostrums, which are also active in the media and construction companies, and which are ultimately releasing the economies of Greek citizens, particularly through the collection of the great tolls needed for the use of the national road network, the tolls that you have said you will abolish them, but here we see that not only are being abolished but are increasing. The notorious concession contracts are supposed to be a kind of partnership between the public and private sectors, usually companies that have demonstrated their added value in a particular sector, for example in the implementation of infrastructure or road construction projects. The whole idea is to mobilise private funds and know-how that complement public resources, with the aim of investing in public infrastructure and services, without any additional costs being borne by the State and financially in exchange for the provision of the infrastructure to private individuals for a certain period of time. But that is only the case in theory. Because, in practice, and especially in modern Greek reality, concession agreements always work to the detriment of the interests of the Greek public and, by extension, the Greek citizens and the interests of the concessionaires. They normally result in an excessive burden on the State Treasury if, if something goes wrong in the commonly called and, in particular, if the concessionaire proves inconsistent with the fulfilment of its contractual obligations, an event of ‘powerless violence’, as was considered by the economic crisis in this case and takes over by the Greek State, namely the Greek taxpayer, to cover the additional costs incurred in order to enable the project to be completed. A characteristic example that proves the truth of the above is the draft law being passed. In particular, the proposed amending agreement aims to activate the construction of the southern part of the motorway EN65, Lamia - Xyniada, which is now to be financed by the State funds, in particular the Public Investment Programme. According to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, this expenditure is to be amounted to EUR 305 million and concerns, as mentioned above, only the deferred section of the E65, i.e. the section from Lamia to Xyniada of just 32.7 km length. It should be noted that the construction of the total work of the E65 motorway, for which the initial concession agreement had already been concluded since 2007, has presented long-term and unjustified delay and the project as a whole remains incomplete, despite the fact that, as stated in the explanatory statement, any possibility of additional financial contribution by the State has been exhausted. As a result, the concessionary consortium is to appear entirely inconsistent with its contractual obligations, to carry out the work and not to comply with the minimum of the initially agreed timetables, with the construction of the project being completely interrupted in 2011, under the inviting by individuals in the economic and budgetary crisis. Instead, the Greek Government's governments and the competent bodies must ensure that the public interest is guaranteed by requiring the concessionaire to do the right and what was contractually bound, they have scandalously accepted the existence of a ‘sustaining event of force majeure’, which the economic crisis was considered to be such. The legal consequences of this provision on the part of the Greek State were severely adverse for the public interest and ransoming up to charismatics for the interests of the concessionaires, since the project was split into departments whose construction by agreement between both parties was deferred for the future. In fact, it is not only this, but, for the completion of these deferred sections, the Greek State has committed itself to further financing it in order to proceed with and complete its construction. These contracts, as well as the other ‘development’ routes for the period 2004-2005, were concluded in an attempt to create an extensive network of modern European motorways, as occasionally mentioned by the relevant ministers. The public, however, was unprepared. There was no proper preparation, no expropriations, no mistakes, no government delay had to be paid for. So you are attacking the public, even when this did not bear responsibility. Both on the Government of New Democracy and on PASOK, problems have been raised, endless discussions have been held with concessionaires, the public accepts to pay generous compensation to concessionaires and manufacturers, while the revenue from tolls for public tolls is also sacrificed. All this was done by political decisions. Each government did not claim to relaunch the projects and give the necessary impetus to the economy. History repeats itself. It happens every time. The same happens now. The potential ‘solar agonist’, Minister for Infrastructure, argued that he would do it with the beast, i.e. concessionaires, that he would impose toll reductions and, on the other hand, the Minister for Development is trying to convince the European Union that the projects will be completed. The institutional framework, which governs the work of the E65 from the outset, was based on sound foundations. Lead to delay and terminate construction work. It has resulted in excessive and beyond the initial calculation of the public funds and in the future, when the project is completed, it will cost the citizens who will use it very expensively. Let's see the bill. The public’s initial financial contribution to the project was EUR 500 million and the additional financial contribution was EUR 215 million. The manufacturer has also received EUR 38.7 million in compensation and even EUR 2 million in concessionaire, which is increased by EUR 83.5 million and EUR 28.1 million respectively, with the recent agreement. The total is EUR 867,3 million. The revenues from tolls in 2013 to 2015 were EUR 27 million. Therefore, the total so far amounts to EUR 894.3 million. This information is what was disclosed by 2016. In this case, unfortunately, we have to do with a classic pathogen and a morbid situation, which is a status in Greece of Transition: overcompensation, favourable contracts for private individuals, a lack of criminal clauses in favour of the public sector, a burden on the state funds and therefore on taxpayers for the benefit of construction companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute and a half, please. Everything is done in the altar of the profits of individuals at the expense of the public interest, the smuggling of national possessors and the right to manage ourselves as a Greek state our entire national wealth. The tragic irony in this case is that even when major road projects are completed, almost always after long delays and excessive burdens of the state budget, Greek citizens are unable to take advantage of them, as long as road transport with I.C. because of fuel and toll costs has become forbidden for a very large part of Greek society. No one would expect anything different from the 'first time on the left', which has willingly changed to the best guarantor and to protect all the interests of public works. To be fair, however, neither any of the other political forces of the supposed constitutional arch would do anything different, since they are in practice identical to the same business interests and constitute the two sides of the same currency on the triple floor: public works, corruption, opacity. As a People's Nationalist Movement we cannot accept in any way the allocation of rights to infrastructure projects and neuro-algalgic for the national economy and national security of services. We believe - and this is what the majority of Greek citizens agree - that it should not be granted to private individuals all the neuro-algic importance - for the safety of our country and of Greek citizens and for the development of our national economy - activities and infrastructures which should at all costs remain under state control. We are talking in particular about road and rail transport, port and airport infrastructure and services, the construction, maintenance and management of roads, the management of waste, the production and supply of energy and heating, telecommunications and so on. The resources necessary to fulfil this long-term plan for the exercise of real national policy can well arise gradually from the exploitation of our energy deposits, renewable and non-renewable, from the real development of the primary sector, the reduction of waste in various sectors and the achievement of national self-sufficiency. Therefore, the draft law being voted on cannot be voted on by the Golden Dawn, because it is contrary, for both our ideological and political reasons. Golden Dawn is voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u538	So do we. The rapporteur, Mr Bardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. I will focus on a number of issues where we disagree, and that is why we will not vote for the ratification of the amendment to the Convention on the Construction, Maintenance, Operation, etc., of the southern part of the mainland motorway E65. The first is: It concerns the nature of the project concerned. The government is characterising it as a project of national importance and therefore a priority project, necessary, and indeed that it must be quickly completed. But let us see why these roads, for whom they are a priority project, are being done a necessary task. It cannot be because you say it is a project of national importance, that it is a priority project for all of us. Ultimately, who determines what priority project is and what criteria? It is important that you tell us about these issues. It is therefore important to see why these roads are being made. The government and other parties in the opposition are saying that the country should, among other things, become a hub of energy and goods, making use of the country's geostrategic position. For this reason, you say that roads are necessary, which - combined with upgrading projects in the privatised ports and in the railways and the development of modern freight centres - will drastically reduce the time and therefore the cost of combined freight transport. In fact, the European Union - and not only - has incorporated this project into the trans-European network, which is why it has no objection to financing this project from the Public Investment Programme, contrary to other investments in which it considers competition to be distorted and fined, for example, see the Scaramaga Shipyards. So here is a project which becomes part of the European transport networks, which serves to bring goods, to facilitate the unification of the European market and, of course, to enable monopolistic groups to carry their goods cheaply and quickly, to ensure their profitability. Now, what does all this have to do with interests and people's needs? None at all! In this respect, then, we say that these priorities, which you have, are not priorities for the Greek people, are priorities that serve the needs and interests of the bourgeoisie, both local and foreign, and that explains the collapse of the regional and provincial road network. Because you see these works that the capitalists need. Of course, public works and roads need to be carried out if anyone is wondering about it. But the real question is. Such public works for who? To whose benefit? To meet the needs of the profitability of business groups or projects based on the combined fulfilment of popular needs? The only thing is that from this design, the working class, the people only have to win another round of exploitation tensions and great risks due to competition in the region for the various roads through energy and goods. This is where they fight big buffalo for huge interests. And so, in our view, these projects cannot be priority projects for the people. But let us see what the people's needs can be met on the subject we are discussing, on transport. The first is that they must be safe and people must not be killed. So safe roads, rail, air and sea transport. Secondly, it should be cheap and not expensive and thirdly, protecting the environment. Can these people's needs be met today? I'll put two issues on. Today, in order to become a road network and to be financed by the European Union, it should be sustainable. In other words, in the face of the logic of sustainability, of profit and not of satisfying people's needs. In other words, it may be necessary for the people to resolve the problem of transport, but on the basis of the European Union's policy, which you all agree, it will never happen. The Minister, after all, yesterday in the debate in the committee, had admitted, speaking of the traffic loads of this road, of the E65, that if a tender were made from the outset, he would never have been built. And take care of the only stable in this case, are the profits of the concessionaire and construction groups, and these profits are paid by the people twice and three times. For example, in the section of the E65 road line we are discussing and a part of it has been built - around eighty kilometers, between Xyniada and Trikalon - do you know how much the cost of tolls in eighty kilometers? It is only 5,05 euros to go and it is expected that two more stations will be added to Lianocladi and Oxynia. The cost will be EUR 7.95, i.e. another EUR 8 from above. So today’s government keeps tolls and, to gold the pill, moves, as it says, analogue tolls. These projects, which are necessary to ensure the profitability of large capital, will be double and triple for the people. He'll pay them to build and pay them back to use them. The ribbons in this case cannot hide this economic bleeding of the folk layers. As for environmental protection, a typical example is the construction of the Egnatia Road. Whether anti-military works were not built or semi-finished in the area of Thessaloniki, Kavalas and Xanthi the world is drowning and destroying crops and properties with the first no. Finally, what do you say in the explanatory statement yourself? We are told that capitalist economic crisis has occurred, that traffic burdens have fallen, and that is why the profits of the construction company have fallen sharply. Lack of liquidity, difficulties in lending, and the closure of the construction of the specific project. What's the conclusion of this? The conclusion is that regardless of the delays, how and when the project will end, the profit hunt by construction blocks is the factor that undermines real popular needs. Are there political responsibilities here? Of course there are. Why? Because they support this action of business groups in order to ensure profit. That's your policy. And these responsibilities are shared by both the government and other opposition parties, because they support exactly the same policy. Profit is the key factor in whether a project will be done, how it will be done, whether it will stop, whether it will continue and go by saying. And what is the state doing now, the government in this case? It undertakes this financing of its construction with money from the Public Investment Programme, i.e. with people's money, to go ahead with a project that is to the benefit of capital in general. How much money does it take to do the work? On the basis of the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, it needs 305m euros. You say to them: 'Take them and see them.' What can we see? Although, when this motorway's revenue covers maintenance costs and ensures the concessionaire's profits and spares something, then this is the government's success, they will return to the state. "Live to me May" I mean. This is the amendment you propose along with some clauses against the concessionaire if the time limit for the construction of the specific project is exceeded. Conclusion. Projects made mainly by state funds will be exploited for the next thirty years by the concessionaires and banking groups, which will receive interest rates from the loans granted to them. So any amendments to the concession agreement are the interests of capital and nothing more. Is there another way? For the JRC, a solution for the benefit of the people can be the single socialised body of construction, a body dealing with all projects, from the study phase to the construction phase and operation phase, which will design and implement projects on the basis of the interconnection and complementarity of road, air and other forms of mass transport, with a view to the rapid, cheap movement of persons, products, energy savings, balanced human intervention in the environment, planned development to eliminate regional inequality and a number of others. To do this, of course, we need a basic prerequisite: to socialise the basic means of production, with a centralised scientific design of the economy, with labour control and, of course, a release from the European Union. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, too. Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the first and sole article of this draft law, the resumption of the work of the semi-finished section of Lamia - Xenia, thirty-two-km long. Questions are raised, ladies and gentlemen, namely the following: First, do we want to or do we not want to go on another breath road project? Answer me. Of course we do. It is a critical and decisive task, because it is known to be part of the partially integrated road network, a total of thirty-five kilometres long, aimed at interconnecting eastern and western Greece. It is part of the trans-European transport network, and by speeding up its completion, the Greek State is fulfilling another commitment to the European Union, that is to say, making every effort to build the deferred parts of this road, and we must finally all help to close it. Secondly, do we want or do we not want to give the green light to a project which in recent years has been inertial in order to free ourselves from the nuisances and obstacles of the past and to overcome the long-term delays and persistent postponements that have had a negative impact on the upgrading of the national road network? Answer me. And we want and we have to move on. The initial concession contract for the construction of the whole project was signed in 2008, and in 2009 the first works started, and after a period of two years the projects were frozen and were eventually interrupted in 2011, as a result of the problems of the decommissioning of funds, i.e. the lack of liquidity that arose due to the economic crisis. The parties proceeded to a new amendment agreement of 23 November 2013 in order to ensure continuity of the deferred work and hence the viability of the project, an agreement ratified by Law 4219/2013, while the latest amending contract included in the current draft law attempts to relaunch work on conditions even more favourable than those of the past. The concessionaire has accepted the additional conditions laid down by the Greek State in order to implement the construction of the Lamia - Xenias section. By 2038 the project was agreed to operate and is maintained during the concession from its revenue alone. In addition, a special account was created to which the difference in the public interest would be credited, when the revenue of the deferred part exceeds its operating and maintenance costs, while the project lenders would not have the right to a pledge. In the event that the branch’s revenue is not sufficient to cover those costs, the concessionaire is obliged to cover the deficit from its own resources. Question three. Do we want to or do we not want to give local society a network that will enhance the everyday life of our fellow citizens and have a direct positive impact on our entire national economy? It is a rhetorical question, as the multiplier benefits estimated to arise from the fastest and safer interconnection of regions in the region will lead to a holistic upgrading of freight transport. In addition, the increase in the volume of movement of goods, the reduction in the cost of transport of products and, therefore, the increase in the competitiveness indicators are key signs of economic growth, and no doubt the estimated added value of tourism destinations will be added. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been called upon to respond to all these challenges, to cure sufferings of the past, and to draw up an overall strategy for the development of infrastructure and transport on the map. That is what I believe was the first and main concern of the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. He managed to overcome the obstacles with a series of actions such as L.4413/2016, which for the first time set a clear framework for all concessions. The result today is to reach this bill, which is, in fact, a tangible example of an overall attempt to develop infrastructure in progress throughout the country, as in addition to this project, on the basis of strategic planning, projects totalling EUR 9 billion are being carried out. I will mention, for example, both the airport contract at Kastelli Heraklion and the Northern Road of Crete, the electronic toll system and the Metro Line 4. Finally, Mr President, we consider that all the necessary steps have been taken by the state in order to put this project back to completion. The construction period has strict deadlines for the completion of expropriations, archaeological works and public utility networks, and the Court of Auditors' positive opinion has already been preceded. The expenditure caused by the State budget amounts to EUR 305 million and will be covered by the Public Investment Programme. The completion of the E65 motorway - a project of particular strategic importance for the development of the country, based on modern national and European standards - must again be set as the main development priority. That is why we believe that the present draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is also served, and that is why the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u542	Thank you, too. Mr. Mavrosh, special speaker of the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the ratification of the amendment agreement on concessions that was ratified in 2007 and the provisions of which have been amended again in 2013 and 2015. It concerns a deferred part of the project design, construction, maintenance, operation and operation of the motorway of central Greece, i.e. the E65, approximately thirty two kilometres long. According to the Special Report, expenditure of EUR 305 million will be incurred against the state budget, which will be covered by the Public Investment Programme. As has been said in committee, the work has been delayed because, on the one hand, DG COMP, namely the Directorate-General for Competition, which took place almost this year in October, and, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors, which was approved, as the Minister told us, at the beginning of December, and, on the other hand, its delay in coming to Parliament. The thirty-two-kilometre part, therefore, is part of the trans-European network, as it stands, has been characterised as a project of national importance since 2006 and is co-financed by the European Union. The initial concession contract for the project was made in 2007. Then, as we have said, amendments were made with Nos 4219/13 and No4354/15 and we have now come, after twelve years of problems and delays, to the convention on ratification in Parliament. This attempts to complete the semi-finished Xyniada node, which is from Lamia to Xyniada, from PATHE to Xyniada, one of the three of the original contract that are deferred parts of the project by the concessionaire, a budget of EUR 305 million, as we said, from the Public Investment Programme. The way E65 is right now, it remains a highway that leads nowhere blind. Today, after the tradition of the central section of Xyniada - Trikala on December 21, 2017, the motorway of central Greece remains blind. This is another Greek originality, as of the total of 190,5 km of the E65 was first delivered into circulation the mid-sixty-nine kilometers long, while the two ends remained waiting. The southern part, which is what we are discussing thirty-two kilometres long, will be brought to an end with this Convention, while for the northern part that is the part from Trikala to Egnatia, where essentially the other two remaining nodes have been consolidated, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is in cooperation with the European Investment Bank for its funding and the finalisation of technical and financial issues is required. The new Convention provides for certain minor changes, but there are also procedural technical changes that change the dynamics of the project. In particular, Article 18 of the original contract is amended and furthermore, more stringent clauses will be imposed on the concessionaire, both financially, i.e. a deposit of a guarantee, fines, etc., as well as in time, i.e. a narrower margin for the deferred part. After each concessionaire's withdrawal within five years the State will cover VAT, and in addition to 400 million co-financed by the European Union, the State will pay after six months 5.7 million for the work of restoring the unfinished works of the same section in the form of additional work. As we have said before, what has delayed the start of work was the decision of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, for which it took almost two years with multiple exchanges of correspondence between the two sides. The statement of reasons appears not to have been considered to be self-evident from the Directorate-General, which had to be convinced that the principles of competition with deferred sections are not being infringed. The project costs total EUR 310 million. However, according to the reply of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport under parliamentary control, work will take three years, that is to say, until 2021, to include it in the celebrations for the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution. We consider the bill to be positive. It is a crucial infrastructure project for a part of the country, central Greece, which will give this part an opportunity to emerge even more. We are therefore positive about the ratification of an amendment to the concession agreement for the E65 and for social and development reasons in the area of central Greece and we will also expect the completion of the project, namely the Trikala - Egnatia, which, in our opinion, will give us even more life in the region. It is also good that we do not have this phenomenon a few hours ago in the previous bill, where we had about twenty-two amendments, which forced us to leave the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u544	Thank you. Mr Simorelli, you have the floor, because we have spoken of the Trikala-Egnatia section.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. Today the Trikala, generally Thessaly. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I do not do this often, but I would like to comment on all of what the representative of the Democratic Alliance said. As far as the first issue of the East Med pipeline is concerned, the 'prosperity pipeline' which I would say is now the political decision has been taken where the pipeline will pass. As regards the second, Mrs Thanos and the Committee on Competition, I would like to say that she was elected yesterday by the votes of SYRIZA, ANEL, the Association of Centres and the Golden Dawn. I think that the JRC voted'residents' - if I remember correctly - and the Potami, the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership 'against'. I would also like to comment on the words of Mr Maniotis, who has spoken from the outset in terms of scandals and rumours. I would say: 'Look who's talking.' Look who's talking! I would just say: let him look at his yard, because at the house of the hanged man let me not go on, because you know what I mean. Today I am very pleased to talk about the ratification of a contract between the Greek public and the contractor for the construction of the southern part of the E65 motorway from Lamia to Xeniada. The E65 motorway for both us in Trikala and for the whole country is a strategic project, and its completion will provide the central trunk of Greece with a modern and secure highway. Unfortunately this work had been erroneous, incorrect direction and planning of the previous governments. The original contract became the distant 2007. In 2011, construction works were stopped and in 2013, the contract was modified and the construction of the northern and southern part was postponed. I would really like to ask a question here: why all this? Why did this abortion happen? And if I remember correctly, it was Mr Chrysochoidis. I'm neither an expert, nor a technician, nor a engineer. I'm a pharmacist. But is it possible that the project has been put in, and they left the two ends and only made the instrument? I want an answer here. Of course, the answer is clear. You did not want this work, because this road when it is built in its totality will be very competitive with the Ionian Road and with PATHE. The current government has managed in a short time and by reducing the original cost, to deliver the central part of the project into circulation. In particular, one year ago, on December 22, 2017, the section from Xyniada to Trikala was released more than ten years after the initial contract was signed for the whole project. It is about eighty kilometers of modern, safe highway that gave a new form to travel from Athens to Trikala, Karditsa, Kalambaka and to all popular tourist destinations of western and central Thessaly. The length of the route decreased by more than thirty minutes, while at the same time overcoming the dangerous turns of Domokos. These are important changes that the citizens of Trikala and the whole of Thessaly experience every day. We, in other words, gentlemen of the counter-population, have succeeded in undertaking, within the crisis, to complete or launch the completion of major projects that you have abandoned. Indeed, after tough negotiations, we have achieved a reduction in the demand for concessionaires, gaining over 700 million for the country. These projects if we hadn't taken over and you were the ones left in the government, they would have stayed in trouble and left behind. We can say we have succeeded where you failed. Today we are taking another step and we are coming to ratify the convention on the construction of the southern part. This section has 32.5 km and will connect the current blind motorway with the axis of Athens and Thessaloniki. Do you know what they call it in Trikala the blind street? The gave road. I also pointed out to the Competition Commissioner some time ago that it is necessary to complete the whole project, especially the northern part, so that the road is sustainable and competitive, because as it is today, it is not competitive and is not sustainable. This will make the most of citizens and especially farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises in order to transport products. It will also give further impetus to the region's tourism development, and will bring strong growth potential, as the link with the trans-European transport networks will be reached. The funding remains at EUR 306 million, as originally planned, despite the fact that eleven years have elapsed. The Convention is approved by the Commission and the Court of Auditors. In addition, the changes to the 2013 Amendment Convention can only be considered positive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The government has made every effort to promote the public interest in this important project, a project which the previous governments have failed to manage. The project will start immediately, as there are no manifestations of expropriations. The South E65-We better be - within less than thirty-six months the SYRIZA government ministers will come and reinaugurate it. And I hope - and the Minister is not here - that we will also inaugurate the northern part, which will link the road to the Ennaia road and we will soon be waiting for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-seven students and students and four educational attendances from the High School of Levidios Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Screkas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to say that today we are discussing a legislative regulation which the Government brings to the construction of the southern part of the main road of E65, namely a road, a road that unites the National Road of Athens - Lamia with the Egnatia Road to the height of the Grevenes, crossing Western Thessaly and, in particular, the Cardits and Trikalon Regional Units. And I want to say that it is a project of enormous importance, since it significantly reduces the time span between Western Thessaly, western Macedonia and especially my prefecture, the Trikalon Prefecture, with the centre of Athens, the port of Piraeus and the airport of "Eleftherios Venizelos". And, of course, you understand that with much shorter distance and a much safer road, and tourist current to and from Trikala, my special homeland, it will increase significantly but also the cost of transporting agricultural and livestock products and other livestock products will be reduced, so that these products will become even more competitive in the Greek market. So you understand how important it is for this project to be completed very quickly for all of Western Thessaly, for the Trikala, for western Macedonia, for Kozani, for Grevenna, for Kastoria and Florina. But let me say, because I have often heard the Minister responsible trying to justify, unfortunately, the apparent and observed inadequacy of this government by proposing very hard excuses, but very easily they can be disproved - and I call on you to be more careful, Mr Minister - that when they are proposed through the House, from the Step forward of the House - or the plenary or the committee - you know that there are practically. And these Minutes show what you have said and it is very easy to read and understand in what wicked way you are trying to twist, unfortunately, the truth. What about the E65 project, this project which was a vision and planning of the government of Costas Karamanlis and New Democracy? It had started as all major concessions through PPP projects, i.e. through the public-private partnership. They were works that they used to fight for private capital, otherwise these roads could never be made. It started, stopped this project in 2011, under the pressure of the huge financial crisis that it had found Greece. The New Democracy took over the governance of this place again in mid-2012 and from mid-2012 until mid-2013 brought all the parties together, the banks financing these projects, the concessionaires, the European Commission, and, of course, it also brought the Greek state, and with a renegotiation of all these projects and the major concessions and the major roads were re-launched. So the E65 was relaunched. How was it rebooted, though, because there was no money for the whole piece? They said that they would be made with the money that was available the horizontal part, which was more varnished - to say so - about eighty kilometers, the Xyniada - Trikala section and the other two tracks, the southern part that interconnected Xyniada with the National Road of Athens - Lamias, as well as the northern part that connects Trikala via Kalambakas with the Ennatia Road, were defined as deferred parts of this concession, i.e. as parts that could be built as soon as the studies and financial arrangements were completed. In fact, then, the horizontal part began. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will need two more minutes, Mr President, because you understand that this is very important. It is a project that concerns my country, the Trikala. It's very important to us and the people who live there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u548	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u549	So let me say that in 2013 it was relaunched and until 2014 60% of the project of the horizontal Section Xyniada - Trikala was built and, in fact, at the end of 2013 the completion rate was 13%, at the end of 2014 the integration rate was 60%, Minister. So within a year, 50% of the road had been completed and, of course, since it continued, the remaining 40%, at the same rate of completion, would have been completed in 2015. When was it completed, Minister, and when was it delivered into circulation? Unfortunately almost three years later at the end of 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u550	We said two minutes ago. They're still two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u551	Yes, Mr. President. What you said to the committee that it could not have built such a large proportion of the road, because expropriations had not been completed, is an impeccable argument, which, unfortunately, is being swallowed down very easily. Why? Because the expropriations, Minister, were completed in mid-2017. So how was the rest of the work built after the expropriations had not been completed? Of course, because the concessionaires had rented these lands for expropriation, so they built the project. It is a sign, a false argument, which swallows very easily and unfortunately underestimates you. You must not come to the House and try to mislead the Members with such lame arguments, Minister, who are easily devastated. With regard to the southern part, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling the European Commission decision, which approved the operational programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which we had included the southern part and was approved in December 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Skrekas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When do you bring legislation, Minister, to start construction of the southern part? In 2015? Oh, no. In 2016? Oh, no. In 2017? Oh, no. In 2018 you brought her. The New Democracy from mid-2012 until the end of 2014, in a year and a half, had relaunched all concessions and had built up 60% of the E65 of the online segment. In four years you have not been able to start the construction of a project approved by the European Commission, not to complete it. And what was that for? I'll tell you why, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u552	But say it very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u553	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, from January 2015 until August 2015 you had eight months. Election eve - strange - you have sent an invitation to the concessionaire if he wants to build the two deferred sections. Evelyn elections! That's weird. Since then you have proceeded and sent a letter to DG Comp, the European Commission Competition Commission in January 2017. And when did you finally manage to reboot the project? We arrive in January 2019. Congratulations, Minister, for your things and your government! Four years to reboot a ready - to - work! You must celebrate for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u554	Good. After the congratulations, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u555	We, Mr President, will vote for this legislation, although this tragic delay has cost too much money but also human lives with these bad roads that Greek citizens have had to use in recent years. Even though these two, three years you've delayed, some people would have been saved. We therefore support and vote for this legislative provision, and at least hope to learn from their mistakes, to stop mocking and mocking the Greek people, to raise the sleeves and to sit down and work for these few weeks left in the rule of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u556	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u557	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u558	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, I would just like to make a comment on what Mr Screkas and Mr Karamanlis said a little earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u560	Where we were owed, they took the ox.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u561	Like the husband whose wife catches him to cheat on him and tells her: Well, my love, don't you believe me and believe in your eyes? You have a great deal of nerve to say what you say to the Greek Parliament in relation to the concession projects, Mr Skreka, and what you have done and what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u562	Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u563	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u564	Do you have a joke of yours? You don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, it's not for laughing. Please very much. It's not funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u566	I don't understand. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u567	I would like the floor on staff, because the Minister with his comments has distorted what I have said, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I am entitled to two minutes on staff and I ask him to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u568	He didn't say about you. You're not in the husband's place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u569	I shall judge that, Mr President. Please, I do not want to say how you should address the Members. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u570	Are you making an observation from the top?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u571	I am not commenting on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u572	You're right, because I gave you 60 percent more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u573	Please give me two minutes on staff, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u574	No, now you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u575	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u576	'Cause then you're gonna ask me for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u577	What does it mean I don't have the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u579	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u580	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u581	What does it mean no? What kind of behavior is this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u582	Behavior? Absolutely decent and totally...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u583	Did you hear what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u584	What did you say? Sit down now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u585	You let him smash my personality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u586	Sit down. Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u587	Don't you give me the floor on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u588	No, I'm not giving you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u589	Is that fair what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u590	Yes, of course, absolutely. It's not fair to other colleagues. For you it's more than fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u591	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u592	No, it's over. You don't have the floor. Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. I will try with the tone of my voice to calm the spirits, although the essence is not very helpful. And there is not much to do with the substance, because there has been too much to choose the use of a PPP tool, that is, a public-private contract - to understand the people who are listening to us - and that this choice of their own is an amazing panacea that solves all the problems, regardless of whether some in the public sector or in the government sector distort contracts with uncertainties or other behaviours. I'll be more specific. When a contract stipulates a financial model whereby this contract will depreciate, i.e. pays the cost of the investment, special attention must be paid - not only to those who are governmentally healing the Ministry of Infrastructure, Economy and Development and whatever the contractors' side, for what this means to their business risk. What happened in this case almost with all the public works that during the amazing previous period their contracts were concluded? Did the financial models anticipate too optimistic - out of sight? - forecasts of traffic burdens and the receipts they had to make in order to repay their loans or their own funds, which would be invested either as contractors or as concessionaires. And why was this a crucial element so that the money of the Greek people is not dispersed and the projects are actually done without overpricing and without a 50% reduction in the material, i.e. the roads that were actually being made for the Greek people, while at the same time increasing by 1,200,000 euros the money paid by the Greek public and the European public budget? Because, essentially, they predicted that revenues and charges could only be increased. Listen to this. They predicted that traffic burdens and revenues could only be increased. As other mothers of other times, they provided for the next few decades, exactly what would happen to economic activity not only in Greece but in the whole world, because transport connects countries, connecting countries, so we are talking about the economic development of a Europe and a world. They predicted that the burdens would never fall, and that if this were to fall, it could be due to an extraordinary, protracted event of force majeure. And this extraordinary, protracted event of force majeure came and confessed - look out! - before reaching the compromise from the contractor and the concessionaire. They were given a paper glue - they actually gave them the above permission on the plate, what each contractor and every public counterparty seeks to mitigate their own fault when they fall out in time and in money. So they were given this on the plate, and then nothing had been foreseen within the contract, which provides for a reduction in the traffic load and for an increase in the term of validity of the contract, so that the contractor can actually obtain what has been borrowed from the bank by extending the term of validity of the contract. They didn't even see that coming. What was left to them as the only way? The overvaluation, the valuation, the review of the whole project. Indeed, this has been done in a way that the European Court of Auditors considers it to be unique. I will read you a village just from the European Court of Auditors. You're leaving, Mr. Screka? You don't care, do you? It's okay. On page 39, therefore, in the middle, with ‘bold’, it says ‘The choice of the PPP method did not protect the partner from the public sector from creating too optimistic scenarios in terms of future demand and use of the planned infrastructure’. Is that what we're talking about? What about us? The European Court of Auditors tells us what has been done. Because, in fact, you did a great deal of negotiation, like the one you did with the institutions for so many years and you did nothing, with the renegotiation you made in 2013, you did the amazing thing. You reduced the roads by 50% and increased the cost by 1,200,000 euros. Unique! Amazing! In particular, you added EUR 470 million to the coral of the contractors, for a project that should have done with less money and, indeed, a whole project. They did half with more than 470 million! You also added EUR 705 million to the concessionaire to support these roads. What streets are we talking about? We are talking about the two roads that you have, unfortunately, been the ones who negotiated, the E65 and the Olympian road. We have come to negotiate in only one, Morea, and on page 36 of the miracle, the European Court of Auditors' conclusion tells Morea that the manufacturers were not given a single euro in order to compromise. You're the most amazing negotiators I've lived in my twenty-five years of law. Good for you! Thank God you didn't negotiate anything else! I hope God will bring them like this, do not negotiate again. I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u594	Like Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u595	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Karamanlis. Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u596	You're provocative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u597	Listen to what other provocative thing you have done, Mr Karamanlis, not you personally, but the ones you defend.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u598	Finish here somewhere, Mr. Mavraani, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u599	I need two more minutes, Mr. President. While, gentlemen, you have reduced the scope of the project and increased EUR 1,200,000, the cost, the work you have chosen to do, was the middle part. And the people of Trikala, apart from Mr Skreka, are excluded, saying "But why only the middle section and not one of the extremes". Because, gentlemen, one of the extreme sections would have contact with one of the interconnectors and would not be "blind". It would have been commercial, and it wouldn't have been blackmailing the public afterward. Do you understand, gentlemen, why should these practices never come back? You're swinging your hand, Mr. Karamanlis, and you're an engineer too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u600	You gave 750 million euros of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u601	The middle department, Mr. Karamanlis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u602	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u603	Be ashamed of yourself for your practices and those you support. The middle section, Mr. Karamanlis, only with a helicopter, you could visit it. If you want to go with helicopters, you go. People's layers, Mr. Karamanlis, can't go with helicopters. If you want to address those who have helicopters, with your pleasure. We are addressing the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u604	Your chief's been on helicopters from morning till night...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u605	Mr Karamanlis, something you said should not be written in the Minutes, the first thing you said. Mr. Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u606	I thank all my fellow Members very much, not for granting a post, because I had to represent the President of Parliament with some obligations, and he was delayed in starting the draft law, so I am necessarily here to talk to you at the moment. Good evening, everybody. We are talking about a motorway, which only the section, right now, on the Lamia - Xeniada draft law, has a construction cost close to EUR 305 million. It's close to thirty-two miles. It has a car service station, it has an AA station, it has a tunnel of about three miles [3 km] and eight bridges, of which some are too large and even three hundred meters. More generally, the project is a highway, as we know, of central Greece, E65, starting with the so-called PATHE in Egnatia, a hundred seventy-four kilometers in total, connecting central Greece with fifteen unequal nodes, a hundred forty-six bridges, upper passages, as well as eighty-eight-eight-reading fauna. We're talking about a huge project. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again from this step I am obliged to condemn the irregularity of the way in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government chooses, with the so-called urgency and urgency it is tabling. And we saw, we witnessed today, a few hours ago, in another draft law on immigration policy, where you passed all the forgotten amendments of the year, which were close to twenty, to close your so-called books. It is not every year at the end of the year that there should be amendments to tight, almost draft laws and enter into the other bills, without study, without debate, without dialogue. As every time the arguments are out of seriousness, and simply so only at times delays and justify delays by the relevant ministries. I will not read the answer you have given, Mr Spirtzi, when you have been placed, why does it come in urgent form. However, the truth is that the mockery of the Members and the blockade of the right legislature continues without anyone being moved. And instead of being you who will change the bad past, you perpetuate it. The rest are prophecies in sin, and every time we discuss the same thing, unfortunately, there is no point in it. So it has been a year rather than a day since the middle highway of central Greece was delivered, the N65 called Xyniada - Trikala from a contract, really, for a project that was signed in 2007, was forgotten somewhere for some years, and started in 2013. Apart from this many-year delay we had for the whole construction, there was also another global originality not to have, that is, a road is delivered, a full road axis to the drivers of Greece, but a section of the motorway completely different and different from everything else, a so-called blind track, which simply does not communicate with any road. That's what's been delivered so far. Of the total of seventy - four kilometres of the new highway I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, only the above medium - length of seventy - nine kilometers was delivered, if I am not mistaken, while for the two deferred sections, the southern Lamia - Xenia and the northern Trikala - Grevenna - Egnatia We have been waiting for our acoustics for some years. So the time has come for us to be separated from just one last act of the so-called drama from the start of the works for the south of Lamia - Xenias, which deals with the present draft law that we are discussing. So the construction of this section of about thirty and a half kilometres long will unite the current "blind" motorway with the axis of Athens and Thessaloniki, and we have only to wait for three years. I would like to add 'only' because it still takes about three years, thirty-six months, and I do not know whether it will be completed in the next thirty-six months. We as the Central Association must admit that we are clearly in favour of the rapid completion of all construction work. We appreciate that this project Lamia - Xeniada will now be within the ten largest projects in our country. Apart from that, it will have benefits for drivers, which are expected to be very important. It is estimated - to get into some details, because it is important to hear them too - that the journey from Lamia to Egnatia will take about an hour and a half. Important tourist destinations such as Meteora, Plastira Lake, Agravia, Metsovo, Karpenisi will be accessible very quickly, easily and - most importantly - safely. Most importantly, drivers will have safe access to these destinations. The route Trikala - Athens will take about three hours, the route Karditsa - Athens two and a half hours, the route Athens - Domokos more than two hours. In addition to what we read, the three-mile Cold Tunnel will also work in this section, which will be within the ten largest tunnels in our country. What concerns me is why and with what criteria and with what responsibility, it was designated in 2013 as not profitable and as an uneconomical axis. I would like an answer here. I'm sure you should give an answer, but also those who ruled at the time. A result of the then initiative was to shrink and abandon the northern and southern part of it, effectively depriving for at least five years the citizens of the benefits that would have arisen, i.e. significant strengthening of local economies, the development of businesses and certainly new jobs. Minister, in addition to the explanations that you must give, they must explain, and then the ruling ones with studies, with figures and with calculations for why they decided to build only the so-called 'blind' part of the period, because it is difficult for anyone to believe that it is an uneconomical motorway, which will unite with the shortest route western Macedonia and northerly with central and southern Greece, a motorway that will reduce the route Larissa - Lamia via Carditsa by thirty kilometers and saves time and money to the drivers of the vehicles, and above all it will ensure greater security than we have at the moment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want two minutes too. I won't be long. However, in order to get to today, it is strange that the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government comes, with what page 2 of the explanatory statement actually says, to give forgiveness and say a word - take note of how nice it describes them on page 2 - for the then international financial crisis, for the lack of bank liquidity, for reduced traffic burdens, for a protracted event of force majeure. We would like an explanation for all of this, because you cannot blame the then rulers and through these excuses, to justify the unjustified and, above all, the interruption of the construction of the project for 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known - and I will say this once again - that as the Union of Centres, in general, we do not have many positive impressions from conventions that are being proclaimed, drawn up and signed by your Government, nor do we trust the Ministries that they are best managing all these important projects. However, we cannot ignore the fact that this work has been too late and must be completed. It is part of the trans-European network, has been designated as a project of national importance and is co-financed by the European Union. For these reasons, above all, we will be voting in favour of the draft law, which you have brought to the agreement on the concession, and we hope that soon, at last, we will conclude such an important project for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, too. Mr Barriots from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u608	Thank you, Mr President. Because the days are what they are, and because it is sometimes well to start from positive examples, from positive references and because we are talking about highways, let us begin with an indication. In the past twenty years Greece has developed a remarkable network of motorways, which has taken it to the new century. We are all old enough to remember what existed before the beginning of the construction of PATHE and before the governments between 1990 and 2004, the Simitis governments mainly complete what is now completed at design and vision level. All the major projects that were built, built and will continue to be built for a few years in Greece have been designed, studied and matured to a different level, each by 2004. What was built by 2004, I would remind you that, due to the special status of Olympiad and the Olympian regime, it ended in the short term and what was left behind in 2004, was condemned to permanent delays, deferrals, problems that still hold till today. I will be sorry to Mr Skreka, Mr Karamanlis and his colleagues in the major opposition, but neither the E65 is a vision of the Karamanlis government nor any other major motorway was envisioned by the New Democracy. They are works that started in the 1990s, talk that started in the '90s and some of them are ever since. The concession contracts were, in fact, matured within the period 2004-2007, and the truth is that the next problems that have arisen are mainly due to the problems and shortcomings of these concession contracts. They did not, for example, have risk prevention. The concessionaires were not at risk from anything if they stopped, as they stopped in 2011, for the simple reason that there was no provision in the contract for what will happen next. That is where discussions began and they brought greater costs and huge delays. They were letonies, not only for private individuals, but the 2004 contracts were particularly burdensome for users. The tolls in Greece were and are more expensive than most European Union countries. And I see with great curiosity those who did a career with "I don't pay" and denounce the expensive tolls today saying it's a third day. The current cost of tolls from Athens to Trikala is 22 euros. One wonders where one will arrive when it's finally over in the south. The cost of tolls in Greece today exceeds fuel costs, at least for medium cars, with relatively low consumption. Tolls are therefore expensive because of the concession contract and will continue to pay a very large proportion of the costs of new projects. In any case, the European Commission says and points out - because there was a lot of talk about this - that PPP projects, concession projects across southern Europe and Greece, what was signed at the time, is problematic, has gaps. In Greece, Spain, Italy and Spain there are major problems, especially with shortcomings in the institutional framework. Therefore, instead of discussing today or discussing the previous five to six years, which have been faced with the problem of institutional vacancy, with regard to concessions, with the growth of the institutional framework in correcting errors, problems that the institutional framework has in seeing from the beginning again the tools, the European directives, we are discussing at the level who is a better negotiator. No one is a good negotiator, when he has no evidence, when he has no analysis, when he has no tools to assess what he is going to publish, when he has no services. You're swinging your head, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u609	No, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u610	You agree, but nothing has changed, four years have passed, you have completed a circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u611	No, you haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u612	I am afraid that to the extent of transparency and the way in which public works are produced little has changed. And since I am sick of hearing 'the previous' and 'the next', I have a green letter - Minister and Mr Caranastasis, you are not listening to me - to note that the previous ones are a little next. If I am not mistaken, both the Minister and you, as members of TTE, have had an institutional say and institutional intervention in previous times, as you have now. Changes of importance in the institutional framework, in the system of production of public works, I as a citizen have not understood. I wish I was wrong, it'd show up in the next few years. So let's go to E65. It's a deferred project. Mr. Karastasis said so, many people said so. It's a pretext that happened in 2013, he unlocked. I have a question. Others designed it, someone else launched it, Mr. Chrysochide unblocked it. Why are you celebrating? Let me get this straight. Why are you celebrating? Because you delayed giving it to the circulation for four years? Because instead of energising the contract in 2015, the extension of the contract and the concession did you then? I really don't understand. Bravo! It's too late than never. It was said to be a colossal work. It's a hell of a work. It stays colloidal with the southern part. E65 has and still has sustainability problems. It's a difficult road. It was the first time. Once it was decided politically, once PATHE was drawn, in the way it was drawn, it was a difficult road - it is a given road - but without the Trikala - Garden section is not complete. It will never be economically viable without the northern part. For Thessaly and Central Greece it is a work of breath, provided that it connects Egnatia with Thessaly, it connects Igoumenitsa with Volos, it connects Krystalpigi with Athens. If the northern part isn't completed, we don't have very big things in our hands. I recognise that it is important for the Trikalins to go to Trikala faster and so on. At national transport, however, and development and development work, it is only completed if the northern part is completed. Where's the north department? It has changed - for me, rightly - the engraving to the Garden. Have money been secured? We're in the void. I have heard, about the vertical axis of Xanthi, thousands of things to talk about today in the debate. I have not heard a word - literally - from you, Minister, nor from you any other of the collapsing about where the northern part is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u613	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u614	Yeah, that's what I'm saying you didn't talk. You spoke yesterday. I have read the minutes of the committee, all the minutes and I have not heard them. There's no mention of it, like it can't. I hear it's in the approval for the European Investment Bank and we're looking for money from there. I wish. What about the expropriations? The study's over, it's data points that's going to pass. As far as I know, nothing has been done about the expropriations, which means that we will get money from the European Bank, if we are lucky, and then we will wait for two and a half years to complete the expropriations, so that we can get the money. So where is a large department? There is no talk of vertical interconnection axes between Ennaia and Thessaly. One of them is. The second is Kozani - Elassona. There's no talk and no proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u615	Finish, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u616	I'm done with this. I conclude by saying again that the E65, its southern part and its integration into Egnatia are a major task, provided that it is completed. We have remained far behind with time-consuming responsibilities and this government, but above all the old ones - there is no question - but it must be completed and completed means the northern part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u617	So do we. Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u618	Thank you, Mr President. Since I am the last speaker, I would like your tolerance for a minute or two more. You should normally, Minister, when discussing amendments to sanctions, before you begin to extend to projects which have not been completed, the responsibilities which exist for the non-completion of these projects and the criminal clauses on whether they have been imposed on those who have not completed them should be discussed. So we're talking about E65. From the start of the ratification of this project contract, it will take one and a half years for the construction, from Lamia to the karpenisian hub, that is, we are talking about fifteen kilometers, while for the rest of the section to Xyniada, another seventeen kilometres, it will take close to two and a half years, that is, four years for the construction of 32,27 km, without any derogation from the timetable. In full growth, the E65 motorway in central Greece will be a hundred seventy-five kilometers. And we make a summary of it: that is, you tell us that since the first ratification, which was signed on 31 May and ratified by n. 3597/2007, until the completion of the project, with the four years mentioned above, until 2022, without further delay, it will take fifteen years to build a hundred seventy-five kilometers of road construction. And since someone will be found, well-meaningly I believe, to tell us that it is not only a hundred and seventy-five kilometers, there are bridges, tunnels and automobile service stations, I urge you all to take a pen and paper, or to take out your cell phones and go to the application that has the calculator, because we will do some deeds, a numerical lesson. Before we go to these actions, however, I would like to ask a question to all the wings about whether it reminds you of something and especially you, Minister, on February 7, 2015. It is the day that, by Evros your head and president, he had announced the re-establishment of the Joint Reconstruction Machine Groups or, otherwise, the well-known MOMA. But what were the MOMAs? We need to make a small reference to remembering the older people and learning how the state mechanism operated without non-governmental organisations and big-workers. Following the enormous catastrophes that our country had suffered since World War II and the gang war, the country's Armed Forces were invited to take over and contribute to the reconstruction of the country. For this purpose, were these groups also set up What were the MOMAs? They were construction units, which were carrying out works, commissioned by the head of each county, depending on the problems they faced. What did MOMA do? He wasn't just making roads, building airports, building stadiums, building bridges, building all kinds of work. In fact, we have heard a proposal from the Communist Party, who believed they were proposing something original, to create a single body, which will study and implement any form of public work. This was and was abolished, in fact, by those who dismantled it. It is the people who are affected by the New Democracy, by their own law, by Article 18 in 1992, on the government of Constantine Mitsotakis and, indeed, by the pressure of great-workers. But go back to the arithmetic class I mentioned before. Take your pens if you want. We have said: it is a hundred and seventy-five kilometres, as I mentioned earlier, the specific work we are discussing, E65. If we make a division with the fifteen years I mentioned before 11.6 km a year. We're talking about 12 kilometers of bitumen a year. Let's go to MOMA. It was founded in 1957 and was dissolved in 1992. What's MOMA done these thirty-five years? He's done 15 thousand miles of gasoline. If we do the division, there are four hundred twenty - nine kilometers of bitumen every year. Make a comparison. And make a comparison with the costs resulting from the operation of these units. As I said, they were abolished by Article 18 of Law 2026/1992. It was abolished and dissolved, because a large number of machinery had been sold to individuals. The reasonable question, however, is why this huge state agency, with such a great deal of supply, has been broken up. The answer, not according to our own words, - I shall end, Mr President - but you can all go to the web site of the League of Liberties in 1976, where you will see, if you are looking, that there were a number of conflicting interests in the policy of the government at that time. Since the 1980s, therefore, governments have asked the Moroccan Government to cut appropriations for project execution. Thereafter, of course, the appointment of staff to the civilian staff of the MOD began to develop at the expense of the projects, so that many of these projects had to be considered economically unfavourable. Finally, as I said before, in the 1990s, following intense pressures by big-workers and publishers, the government decided by this law to abolish MOMA. Believe me, wanting to do a search on the internet by typing "MOMA scandal", all that emerged was "Roma scandal", the Italian football team. There was not a single MOMA-management scandal. The Golden Dawn commits that when God wants us to rule over this place, we will re-establish and reoperate the MOMA, because the MOMA had given too many solutions. Not only did it employ permanent military personnel, but it also had civilian staff, which had the corresponding know-how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u619	The Minister has the floor, Mr Christos Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sanctions for contracts and public contracts are usually specific topics in the process, in planning, in the preconditions for this, and they allow people to distort the truth. So we will try to highlight these points, because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and those who support you and follow you on your own tactics, such as Mr Maniotis, you have a courage to say what you are saying today in this House. Mr Karamanlis, in a parliamentary term, you have never completed a project worth 300,000 euros. I challenge you to tell us a project since 1974, since 1944, since 1924 that your prolongation, during a parliamentary term, has begun and completed. That was the example I brought to you with Menemena and let it be a 'little budget'. You keep mentioning inaccuracies, such as what you said before about the Patras Tower project, if we observe the law that we have passed, because there have been no expropriations. They've become expropriations. They were joined, Mr Karamanlis, all the critical works of the Ministry and not just. We do the same in the projects of the regions, the municipalities, in the 7A. And usually for which parts of the motorways are some MPs cut? For this, the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have exempted from concessions. And above all, the MPs, who are from the areas that came out of the concessions, that is, the road networks, Elias, Trikala, Phthiotisa, are cut off. The Members of the New Democracy and PASOK, who voted to get out these sections of the motorway outside the concessions, come here and cry now that we are late. I will exclude Mr. Barriotta's placement because he was in a completely different style. However, I would like to say to him that there have been very great changes in public works and with Law 4412, but also with Law 4413. In particular, there was no provision in these concession projects that there would be neither a budget nor a technology model published nor a social provision for the level of tolls you had established. They cannot now come out of competitions and end up in such contracts as happened in 2007 and 2006 and as revised in 2013 with the new institutional framework that we have. To be more specific, in the remarks made by Mr Barriots, I would like to say to him: Usually the delays are caused by manufacturers, by contractors. In this case, with the contracts that were intended - and we will analyse that later - there were not those who had won the tenders for the first time, the contractors, neither the contractors nor the concessionaires, but the Greek State. How did that happen? It's done in two ways. The first way was the commitment of the Greek State twice by the governments that did the contracts - and revised them - to complete the expropriations, to complete the archaeological work and permits and, of course, by what they accepted on bank lending, where they had predicted that financing from the banking system should be reversed, by the private banks, while there was the condition that the banks could stop financing whenever they decided that they would not cover the revenue they had provided for. I would also like to conclude by saying this: Mr Karamanlis, you said to the committee today that we do not have new contracts. I told you some of the new contracts we have, because we have too many. You have also denounced us for scandals over these new contracts and now you say that we do not have new contracts. It's to wonder. I will not repeat them. The Greek people know them, people know them, and they are watched for them to be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u621	You'll have new contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u622	No, we have new contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u623	Tell us one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u624	Let me tell you: The Triasio, which you reported to us with Mr. Maniatis and your friend for scandals, the subjugation of Sepolis, the railway sections of Corinth - Patras. I don't want to go on right now. It's too much like the Paramonian street. Don't go on. Let's go to today. You said the New Democracy made the planning of these projects. I would like to congratulate you on the amazing design that the New Democracy has done in 'protecting' the public interest in the tenders that the New Democracy has made - to congratulate you on the contracts that New Democracy has made. I should like to congratulate you, Mr Karamanlis, on the interruption of work carried out by the New Democracy conventions. I should like to congratulate you on the 1.2 billion more money, the toll level, for all that has troubled Greek society, until the Government of Alexis Tsipras completes these concessions. That's not just us. When we talked about it, you would come and tell us about armour. Let's go see what we're doing today, and how they come up with what afflictions and by whom they were given. Currently, the Amendment Agreement of the Concession Agreement is ratified by this plan, which was completed on 11 December 2018. The agreement concerns the construction, maintenance and operation of the southern part of the Western Greece motorway, E65, from PATHE to Lamia, to Xyniada. Before developing the differences that we are coming today to vote in favour of the public interest in relation to the Convention, which existed for EN65 and was ratified in 2007 by Law 3597, it was amended in 2013 by Law 4219 and Article 44 of the Law. 374/2015, it is useful to see the history of the project and the concession projects in general, to draw conclusions on public works, which are historically one of the main sectors to speed up the final exit from the economic crisis. Citizens should be informed and clean answers on the oligopoly, mistakes, omissions and purposes should be given, there should be no gray zones in citizens' information and we should all take a stand on these issues. The concession project is, as you know, part of the trans-European network. It has been characterised as a project of national importance since 2006 and is co-financed by the European Union and the Greek State. The funding - in order to avoid any doubt - is made from Community funds at 85% and from national resources at 15%. What was provided for in the 2007 Convention, which is proud of the New Democracy? It provided for the entire project - that is from Lamia, from PATHE to Egnatia - that it would end in sixty-six months, five-and-a-half years from the start of the concession, i.e. that it would end at the end of 2014. It also provided that the total area of expropriations would be delivered in twelve months, namely 2009 and the operating subsidy - look at this - it would be EUR 1.7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u625	Minister, that's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u626	What did New Democracy do next, who's proud of it? Because of what I told you about the 2007 contract, nothing happened. With the restructuring of the Convention, therefore, it was agreed that the medium-sized part of the project, which was the easiest one - had two toll stations within seventy-nine kilometres, had not, in order to know the reasons for the middle section - and to postpone the construction of the initial and final section. The object of the project was reduced by 55%. What we're telling you is not the evidence that we presented. They are the elements of the report of the European Court of Auditors. All the Members of the Commission have received them and will be tabled today in the Minutes, to see what initiatives will be taken by the New Democracy and the KINAL, which are proud of these conventions. The European Court of Auditors therefore reduced the scope of the 55% project. A total of seventy-four kilometres had to be built by motorway and the 2013 amendment agreed to build seventy-nine kilometres in two years. It is a trick to the previous governments of the Court of Auditors' report and, unfortunately, confirms what we have said. On page 35, Mr Karamanlis - I will read you out - it says: "It has been decided to postpone the construction of important sections of motorways 45% for Olympia Street...", - for Patras - Tower you say to him, that you took out - "... and 55% for the Central Greece Motorway". It says, "It also remains the risk of the significant underutilisation of the Central Greece Motorway..." - for what we are discussing today - "... and of the Leuktros Division - Sparta for the Morea, which is inconsistent with the criteria of sound financial management". Mr Karamanlis, the report of the European Court of Auditors refers to the period 2010-2014. And since it says a lot of financial information about how good you had in public projects, on page 40 it says about the specific motorway of Central Greece, that the object of the project was significantly reduced and therefore neither the southern nor the northern part would connect it to existing motorways. We'll testify to this in the two parties, so you can read it in detail. Now, what really has happened? He pledged the Greek State in 2013 for the second time to complete the expropriations and complete them in December 2013. The cost of the project in the original agreement was 2.375 billion. After the agreement, which reduced the subject so much, it went to EUR 1,594 billion. In other words, 45% of the project would be done with 67% of the initial cost. Instead of agreeing to pay EUR 1,068.000,000 in proportion, you agreed to pay 1,594 000 000, that is to say 526 million more than the original contract. This, Mr. Karamanlis, is a punk. You're right. You must denounce the Samara government, which agreed in 2013, the special negotiators, all those you had.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u627	In 2015, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u628	We'll go in 2015. I'll see you in the Chamber today. All of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u629	Lie, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u630	Is the European Court of Auditors lying? The European Court of Auditors says that. I'm not talking about it. Complaints to the European Court of Auditors. Send the prosecutor the European Court of Auditors, who is lying in your opinion. And yet this 2013 agreement you made has not proved sufficient to complete the central part of Xyniada - Trikala, which was less than 45% of the project. Immediately after the alleged reopening, neither the expropriations of the archaeological excavations nor the movements of public utility networks were completed at the beginning of 2014. Therefore, in December 2015 - and we are tabling the licence here - the environmental conditions of the connecting road and the Xeniad node were issued. It took another year to complete the expropriations, since the environmental conditions had not been approved. [[At this point the Minister, Mr Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So what does Mr. Screkas say? Even the environmental conditions had not been approved. In December 2015, they were completed. Almost a year we've been government at the time. It says Mr Karamanlis and New Democracy, that we are finishing what they started and finished, and we just started them. From 2007 to January 2015, 54% of the project had been implemented - we were very precise - and obviously, in two years, we implemented 46% in the crisis, in the capital control. Our Government is completely ineffective! We've broken the country! These delays also accumulated new delays and resulted in, in addition to the inability to complete the project, which was set by your second contract in 2013 and which had fully failed, to accumulate new compensation from the concessionaire and manufacturer. These are not in the Court of Auditors' report because they concern up to 31-12/2014. The European Commission raised a matter of direct return to Community funds allocated to the project and, indeed, wanted for this EUR 1 billion project to come back. So what happened in 2016? Significant delays have been recovered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u631	Sixteen minutes, and in ten minutes you'll tell us what you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u632	It's okay. There has been a reduction in the manufacturer's compensation requirements, namely, from 115 million to 50 million, a reduction of 65 million. The cost of rehabilitation was reduced from 67 million to 10 million, a reduction of 57 million. The millions of Greek people are not strings. There has been a significant reduction in the compensation requirements of the concessionaire, from 27 million to 7.5 million, another 20 million. In total, 143,911,953 euros were reduced. I shall present to you in the Minutes and in the official documents on what the concessionaires were asking for from the spectacular work of the New Democracy and to tell you that when we said that, New Democracy, KINAL and other parties and their friendly means, they would swear to us and say what they had predicted. That is, we cut nearly 800 million and they beat us. [[At this point Mr Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Who says that? The report of the European Court of Auditors speaks of the three concessions, about 1,200,000 000 additional costs. We are no longer talking about it, but the European Court of Auditors. The State, therefore, after the ‘good work’ of the New Democracy in E65, had predicted that within three years of completion, it would be possible to request the concessionaire and the manufacturer to build the south and north of the motorway, the deferred sections and had laid down conditions. The conditions it has set were the revenues of the part - that is to say, what we are going to build now - together with the resources available to the concessionaire, through the recycling mechanism for the public share on the incomes of the Ionian Road. They are not sufficient to cover the eligible costs of the deferred part and, therefore, the State would have undertaken an additional obligation to cover this deficit, through the State budget - congratulations for the contract you have made - and up to the maximum operating and maintenance costs, namely 1.7 billion of the original contract. Congratulations on that too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u633	That's not the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u634	Congratulations on that, too. So you understand that these amazing conditions of the New Democracy concession had to be amended. In view of the exercise of the rights of the Greek State, in order to move forward and have the contract and the amendments at your disposal today, we should ask for change, for additional conditions for the concessionaire in terms of the implementation of the southern part of the motorway of Central Greece. We made this clear to the Competition Directorate of the European Commission and laid down conditions and conditions for the concessionaire, which were accepted. In particular, what has been planned? What are we changing today for a vote? The first is that the cash flows for this project, whether they relate to construction costs, either to revenues or to operating and maintenance costs, will be quite distinct, in order to check, in relation to the middle section, and will be monitored with perfectly distinct accounting records. The second is the abolition of any public financial contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u635	You doubled your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u636	You're right, but they're important, and you need to know them, because they were talking to us here about scandals, to see what the real scandals were going on. As regards the deferral part, therefore, any financial support from the State to the concessionaire, i.e. EUR 1.7 billion, or the part corresponding to the southern part. The Greek State will not give 1 euros for the operation and maintenance of this section. If there's less revenue on this section of the highway, the concessionaire's gonna put it on. If there's more, the Greek public will take it. The third is the creation of a separate revenue account of the deferred section, on which the project lenders are not entitled to a pledge. An obligation arises for the concessionaire to draw up a separate financial model. What Mr. Barriot said before. A guarantee letter of good execution is to be lodged for construction and operation and maintenance. A criminal clause shall be imposed at the expense of the concessionaire in order to exceed the time limit for construction. Also compensation and the restoration of incomplete work go to EUR 5 million and the construction price was reduced to EUR 300 million, of which EUR 317 million was. And for the first time in a concession project, the State does not pay the independent engineer, which is an additional cost of EUR 4 million. It shall be borne by the concessionaire. There are provisions, so that the issue of delays and compensation is not repeated. They've become...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u637	Are we in Cuba? Is Castro talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u638	It's all right, Mr. Karamanlis. You'll get the Christmas spirit. I'll be done. You raised the issues, I must reply to you as the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u639	Yes, but we will. I mean, mercy anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u640	And archaeologists have joined 7A...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u641	Minister, Mr. Karamanlis wonders if Castro speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u642	Castro was more charismatic in his speech, I must say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u643	No, but Mr. Karamanlis is causing, he's become a fan of Castle. So the expropriations have joined 7A and the archaeological work has been put in the interministerial committee's monitoring, so that we do not have the delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u644	Many times, Castle's been in the middle of the night. Watch out, Mr. Karamanlis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u645	Do not do this to us, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u646	Like this. In order to summarise the conclusions, the concessionaire resigned from the operating subsidy and we are talking about a cost of EUR 12 million. The expenditure from EUR 317 million went to EUR 300 million and the manufacturer fully bears the costs for the independent engineer. He asked for Mr. Screkas to know - if I remember correctly - what would happen to the north. Negotiation with the European Bank has gone too far - we are at its end - so that this agreement can go ahead too, to start the northern part. I say this in order not to have any anxiety, although in the new Republic it did not have, when it was voting to get out of this section. We've started our study procedures. The final studies have been completed and we have given orders to make the real estates, to do the expropriations with 7A in a short time. Could the project be carried out differently? The answer is unambiguous: No. In 2015, the changes to the Funding Regulation of the co-financed projects were implemented. Therefore, in order to approve the financing of a motorway, it should have from 2015 onwards twenty thousand cars daily. This was known in 2013, which was agreed to changes in the original contracts. It was a crime to reduce the natural object and to get out of the highways right now. It is a double crime, with regard to the delay in the implementation of projects, but also to the approval of funding, and whether these projects could be carried out, that in 2013 there was not even the self-evident prediction that those parts that have been excluded are approved by the European Commission institutions. You didn't even do that! Thus, in Olympia Street and specifically in the piece Patras - Tower, the project was considered as a new project. There would have been no approval of his funding, Mr Karamanlis, if we had not had these coincidences, if we had not made these competitive procedures. The traffic loads were 15 thousand a day in 2007 and in 2013 they were seven and a half thousand a day. So you've been mocking citizens all these years. It wouldn't even be the play. You say you had the contest ready. There weren't even studies. Obviously, if they ever financed us, it would be a lane without separating islands per direction. With regard to the motorway we are discussing today, to have an image - especially Mr Skrekas and those of the counterpopulation - we will tell the burdens you had put into the amazing design that you had made in 2006 in 2007 and 2013! In the southern part you had foreseen in the 2007 contract eleven thousand nine vehicles a day. In 2013, you revised, they had fallen to six thousand vehicles and today they are in the six thousand two hundred vehicles. This is not cooking at all! In the northern Trikala - Egnatia you anticipated in 2007 ten thousand vehicles and in 2013 five thousand vehicles. Nowadays there are three thousand nineteen vehicles. Therefore, I should again like to congratulate you on the design, implementation and contracts of the New Democracy. We'll take the well-preferred version. We're not like you. We'll take the assumption that there was a failure of predictions and planning failure. Twice, however, commitment to the completion of expropriations, in times that were sure not to be completed, what is it? The increase in costs by EUR 1.2 billion said by the European Court of Auditors, what is it? You've been blaming us for three and a half years for scandals. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Mr. Manatis, we took them to the prosecutor's office for Patras tower. Then you blamed us for a scandal for the Trinity. I took this to the D.A. Let me give it to you for your personal record.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u647	The European Commission will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u648	Yeah, yeah, he's gonna tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u649	Four times you've increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u650	I'll give it to you for your personal record of the so-called scandals you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u651	The 20m euros for the studies...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u652	Calm down, please. We're done. There have been comments so many times. What do you want, Mr. Comrade? Can we turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u653	When we say change of the law on the responsibility of Ministers, we do not expect a constitutional change to take place. We do it ourselves, for ourselves. We expect you to do so, too, on what the European Court of Auditors said about your ministers, Mr Maniotis. Today, in fact, he also denounced us for a regional project....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u654	If that's possible! Twenty-eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u655	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u656	Can you calm down, ladies? The Minister will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u657	Mr President, ten minutes is time. Is it going to be 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u658	Why are you making a subject now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u659	It hurts what we're talking about. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u660	Minister, give me ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, do all of you have to finish on time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u661	Why are we talking for eight and ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u662	We're in time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u663	You, Mr. Black, may. All colleagues respect 100% of the time given to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u664	Here's to 280%!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u665	Please. Please. Let's finish. Don't make any impressions for years! Mercy! Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u666	It's Christmas and you must have another mood. The conclusion of the debate is that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is absolutely right. These are extreme right-wing concepts that don't concern us. We do not want and the Greek people will not allow you to come to the government for what you have done in the country and you want to continue with them. We will not get tired of saying - and thank you for partly accepting this principle - that the projects do not belong to any government, to any minister, regional or mayor. They belong to the Greek people, who pay for them. We are judged on the effectiveness, transparency and cost of works by the sole owner and works and on the only mandate that we - and not you - have - the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u667	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Tyrnavo Larissa. The House welcomes them. Thank you for being here and wishing you good holidays. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate is closed at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Standard of the Amendment Agreement of 31 May 2007 on the Concession Agreement for the Project ‘Study, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Exploration of the Automotives of Central Greece (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168), as amended by: (a) 28.11.2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention’, ratified by Article 2(2) of Law 4219/2013 ‘Structuring the Concession Agreements’ and (b) by the Agreement of 19.12.2013 ‘Agreement of the Amendment of the Concession Agreement of 28.11.2013 amending the Concession Agreements’, ratified by Article 44 of the Concession Agreement and on related issues’ (B) of the Agreement on Financial Provisions for the implementation of other Financial Provisions of the Concession (Agreements of Concession) and (B)’ (B) of the Financial Provisions of Other Provisions of the Financial Provisions of the Concession of Concession of Concessions and of Concessions on Financial Provisions of Others of Others of Contributions of Contributions of Contributions. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. To open up, please, the electronic voting system and, as long as it is open, to read the rules once again. The vote shall include the principle of a draft law, an article, an acronym, as well as the entire bill. Every time on the screen four articles appear to be voted on, the number of articles to be voted on at the top of the screen appears. So make sure it's 0 to vote, to complete it. Sure, because it's only four articles, you don't have to do anything more, so-called scroll down. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, the nominated article and the whole and after you have guaranteed your vote, you have the opportunity to check or review it, until the end of the vote. For any question, you can always ask the Bureau to assist you with it. I would ask that the general rapporteurs and special speakers wait for them to sign at the end. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u668	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u669	The positions of the parties as reflected in the vote on the electronic system are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u670	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure: ‘Modification of the Agreement of 11.12.2018 amending its Provisions of 31 May 2007 on the Project ‘Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance and Operation of the Car of Central Greece (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A 1968), as amended:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u671	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u672	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-20-S1-commons.u673	With the consent of Parliament at the time of 19.48 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 21 December 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: 1) Parliamentary control: topical questions debate and debate under number 8/7/19-11-2018; thirty-seven Members of the New Democracy Parliament to the Ministers for Economy and Development, State, Environment and Energy; Justice; Transparency and Human Rights and Finance; "Revelations on the action of the former Director of the Public Gas Company (EPC) Mr Theodoros Kitsakos; and the “Invisible hand” that caused damage of tens of millions of millions in the IPCC" and 2; legislative work: Continuation of the discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: “Enigged Arrangements of the Ministry of Migration Policy and other provisions”.
