ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 28 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1852-25-2018 topical question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Municipal Market of Chalkida". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1856-25-2018 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr Georgiou Vlachos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Exit mechanism for adjusting farmers' debts from loans from the former Agricultural Bank’. 3. The 1844/21-6-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Emergent need for the subordination of OSE railway lines to Larissa". 4. The 1883-26-2018 topical question by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the "conversion of the twenty-three (23) hydronomists of the "EKDAP S.A." in indefinite time and their inclusion in the Staff Regulations and Collective Labour Agreements (SE)". 5. The 1835/19-6-2018 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation of all forms of multiple sclerosis into the table of irreversible diseases". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1857-25-2018 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled ‘New Frontier Station of the Egnatia Road in the Regional Unit of Kavala’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1882-26-2018 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation that has been formulated about the problem of waste management in Corfu and Paxos". 3. The 1881-26-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation of the workers in the FPI and the rights of the authors of its members. 4. The 1836/19-6-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Independent MEP II Piraeus Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Minister Syriza appears as a Macedonian with an appeal against Greece". 5. The 1749/5-6-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyiannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Uncontrolled infringement in the environment of the Athens University Institutions and the wider area of the Area of Mars". 6. The 1834/19-6-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Backing trade union activity at the “IKOS” Hotel in Corfu and illegal retention of trade unions in the field of the hotel by the employer”. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1638/15-2018 topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In despair the residents of the Exarchates." 8. The 1812-14-2018 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga". 9. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Paionia National Road Department. 10. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 5821/10-5-2018 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Problems of farmers and farmers Law of Drama and the Ministry of Development Action Plan for the Prefecture". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent (M.I.)’. and other provisions.’; I also have the honour to inform the House that Mr Lazaridis has been received and will be submitted to the Minutes for the Independence of Mr Georgios Lazarides by the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent (M.I.)’ and other provisions.’; The above draft law was described by the Government as urgent. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade accepted by a majority that it was urgent, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 June 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. I propose that the debate should be uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u3	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Cameroon, I tell you something that you know about it, that those who want to sign speakers will do so by the end of the speech of the second rapporteur. So Mr. Ilias Kamaro has the floor from SYRIZA for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the transport equivalent today. It is worth saying that those who did not attend the discussions in the committees that transport equivalent is the measure, which covers the increased cost of transporting persons and goods from and to the islands, the difference that exists in relation to inland transport. How does that work? Studies and discussions have been carried out, months' consultation with institutions. Since it is the first time and the data are missing, it is not complete, so the implementation of the measure is expected to be pilot for the next half of 2018 and from 1-1-2019 will apply to all islands. In the first half of the year it will apply mainly to the islands of the eastern Aegean, other than Rhodes, and to the small islands of the Cyclades and the Ionian Islands. Its integrated form will exclude Crete, Evia due to size and Lefkada due to its connection with the mainland. How will it be implemented? Comparison is taken as the cost of kilometres moving in the inland with the CBEL. It is the most stable price, the most affordable price to compare it, is determined by ministerial decisions. This distance is converted into the sea in miles, a value per mile is fixed and, depending on the distance, the difference is attributed to the islanders so that the cost of transporting them to the sea is the same as inland transport costs. The funding will be from the Public Investment Programme. Beneficiaries will be the inhabitants of the islands and enterprises operating on the islands at the moment. There is an issue - to understand what we are talking about - about what amounts we are talking about. The first estimates and studies show that depending on the distance the island has from the center or the distance that the islander wants to move from island to island, from its own island to others, the difference varies. It can be the benefit of 500-600 euros a year at least and can be reached as well as 1,200 euros and more, so we are not talking about conspicuous amounts. Also, the latest article of the bill provides for the establishment of the Navy School in Kalymnos, which is a development measure not only for this island but also for the wider area and is worthy of being in Kalymnos for symbolic reasons, but also for the tradition of the island in shipping. Does the question now arise: This transport equivalent, which we are discussing today, is what we want? Oh, no. First of all, it is a transport equivalent to islanders. We want an equivalent transport for the islands, which means that everyone's transport to and from the islands will have the same cost as domestic transport. This is what you can understand that it is the development measure that must be implemented at some point for our islands, because it will also facilitate the transport of persons for tourist or professional reasons to and from the islands, which is now too expensive. But it's a first step. In the next three years, the bill provides for a national maritime transport strategy to be developed. So in this period of time we can see what we can do about this integrated plan, which will come as close as the ideal of the transport equivalent, given that the European Union does not apply anywhere in this way. In some countries to which it applies, it applies either in the form of coupons, as in Denmark, or in companies involving the State, entities, local authorities, etc., which have the potential to fix prices. We're not going to copy any models. We must, however, study a model which will adapt to the particular circumstances of our country, which is multi-seasonality, and with small islands, which does not exist in the European Union. During the debate on the draft law, some objections emerged from the institutions and parties' positions. The institutions as a whole were placed positively, making comments on how it will work better. We all know there's always the best. I explained before that it is a pilot project and after it is implemented we will see not only its improvement, but also its completion, its completion, so that it covers the transport equivalent in its overall form, as we want. On the part of the parties, however, I must point out and burn down their hypocritical attitude, because, while it is a measure that first relieves islanders in this pilot project and because they are in a difficult position to vote against, they are trying, in order to be faithful to their blind opposition tactics, to find various objections. One of these is that: 'You know, it is not complete, it is not transport equivalent, it is 'flavoured', and that is why we will not vote on it. We would like something much better." Who's saying that? Those who have been ruling for decades and have done nothing about transport on the islands. One question, then, is this: are you saying that you have never dealt with it? And a second question: What do you propose for its full implementation? Do you have any suggestions? Of course they don't have any proposals. In fact, New Democracy found the invention that "you know, we are not opposed to the philosophy of transport equivalent, but we are opposed to the philosophy of this bill". But it doesn't explain what the difference is. If the difference is, that they want it all, then they are consistent in the line they are trying to give to some of their regional managers, such as the North Aegean Region, who expressed the whole of the regions in the committee, was set: "Take it back and leave us the VAT". The following question arises here: Are you satisfied with the fact that VAT remains and does not apply the transport equivalent? Do you mind having both of them, namely the reduced rates of VAT and the equivalent of transport? Or - to say otherwise - if we cannot keep the reduced VAT rates down, then should we not even make the transport equivalent? And here, as far as the relationship between the transport equivalent and VAT is concerned, we have repeatedly said whether or not we have reduced rates of VAT, we see it as one of the measures to be implemented in the context of an integrated island policy, which is also tax measures - it may also be VAT and there may be other tax relief measures for islanders and businesses operating there - but there will also be other measures to do with the access of islanders to the goods they are entitled to, so that access to is the same as access to domestic residents. Allow me, of course, to talk about the link between VAT and the transport equivalent and to tell you something, because most people do not know it from what I have seen. Do you know that at the moment when the reduced rates of VAT apply to the islands - to what is now in force and to what was in place before - the rate of transport was and is increased by 24%? Do you know that, in transport, which is supposed to hurt the islands and which is where their main exclusion lies, they do not have a reduced rate of VAT? If we wanted to see a connection between the transport equivalent and the VAT, that's it. So if the reduced rate of VAT is abolished in all the islands, normally for this reason alone, there must be no increase in transport, because the rate of transport is already 24%. On the contrary, if the transport equivalent is applied, even if VAT rates are increased in all the islands, then the price of tickets will be reduced and not just because it will be reduced by subsidising transport costs, as we have said before, but because it will also be reduced in several other sectors because of the transport that will affect this price. I have to respond to another complaint which has been raised and which makes me very sad. It comes from the friends of the Communist Party of Greece, who also believe in their clear line "We do not vote for anything either from the European Union or because it concerns NATO and NATO strengthening or because it is from your own government, which serves the interests of shipowners and larges" he says "no". But what argument does it make in this bill? He says that the shipowners will get that money. If that's possible! So the question arises: at the moment we have monopolies on the coastline. Tickets are data. At the moment, the islander and transport companies are paying for them. Shipowners take it anyway. This money given by the transport equivalent goes to the users, does not go to the shipowners. The shipowners got the same ticket, the same ticket they'll get. If there are increases, the transport equivalent will also be adjusted. It will always cover the difference in the price of the CCEE in proportion to the ticket that occurs every time, because we will also have increases perhaps due to fuel, but we will also have reductions in other factors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a couple of minutes, Mr. President. To conclude, you will allow me to take the opportunity we are discussing this bill, to stress the need for this measure and its speed. That is why it comes with the urgency procedure, because they are all waiting for the relief of the islands that have been taken over all these years by those who have not taken care in the past years to implement a measure of island policy. We only had the reduced rate of VAT. And they are now coming to protest about VAT or accuse our Government of not implementing an island policy. We, for two years now and with the announcement by the Prime Minister in December 2016 of a comprehensive framework of measures for island policy, have begun. There's no time to report it. Perhaps the ministers will also mention it. You know very well the steps that have been taken to improve shipping, strengthen hospitals, health centres, and the rural hospitals we have not had before. We went to an island where there were twenty - five inhabitants, and their problem was that they didn't have a doctor. We were going to a cafeteria where two friends, on an island of twenty-five inhabitants, in Pserimos specifically, sat on one corner and the other on the other side to keep them from catching a flu, because they didn't have a doctor to examine them. We went to a small island and saw one or two kids at school and didn't know where they'd go when they finished primary school. That was the situation you handed over, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. And now you come, my dear, and you cry for the islands. I have no time to talk about the development of island policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u5	You really don't have time. Your time is up, Mr. Kamaterre. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Charalambos Athanasios, the special speaker of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I may need a few minutes more than a twelfth in view of the fact that seven amendments have been tabled, the three of which have been tabled since yesterday's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u7	I don't understand what you're saying, but I expect to see when you'll be in time, Mr. Athanasios. I'm waiting to see the first time you're gonna be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u8	A number of amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u9	I will give you a good report when that is achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to the committee, in the New Democracy, unless there are very important contributions to the bill - we will also see the legislative improvements - I said that we were negative and therefore we have reservations. I shall mention in detail the conditions under which the New Democracy would vote in favour of such a bill. Your representative in the committee was: New Democracy is voting against an innovative measure that helps islands and supports islanders. But that's not the way it is. Another question of the equivalent of transport - transport equivalent is quite different in itself as a philosophy - and the bill as it is introduced. And I'm explaining. The bill has a lot of problems which I shall be referring to, of course, in the debate on the articles. But, above all, we are negative for three main reasons. The first reason is that we disagree with the philosophy of the bill. Be careful, we do not disagree with the philosophy and application of the transport equivalent in the context of the territorial continuity of the state. We believe that the transport equivalent should be applied. However, in the way you enter it, which is only by name an equivalent transport, it is in fact another subsidy to be granted to certain categories of beneficiaries rather than to all of them. The New Democracy said that yesterday and we have done so on too many occasions. I am thinking recently of the big companies' bills and how much we wanted to help with proper legislation because it helps the country's economic development. The New Democracy is open to dialogue on a bill that solves problems, endurances time but also benefits islanders. We do not agree that the transport equivalent per household will be granted, but per person. And we do not agree with the income criteria that you will identify and which you dare not state directly but imply. We believe that the equivalent must be enjoyed by all the islanders and all the undertakings active on the islands. That is why we do not agree with the traceability criterion for companies, but instead we call for the criterion of real economic activity to be introduced, because the question of equal treatment between undertakings is also raised, since only companies that have their head office on the island are subsidised. I stressed the malfunctions to be created, Minister, and you said that you would bring about a legislative improvement today. We'll see if he pleases us. Apart from the legal distinction which implies such an action, the question arises of the fact that consumers from the islands do not benefit from such discrimination, since the benefit of subsidisation is not passed on to them, i.e. to the final consumers. It therefore raises the general question of whether the islands will ultimately benefit from the grant of transport equivalents, as is the fundamental philosophy of the bill. Otherwise, companies which contribute to the real economy of the islands and produce jobs are unfair. I will explain this with an example, an example of it. I mentioned it in committee yesterday. Let's assume that two hotel businesses have two hotels, one on island and one on mainland Greece, but one on island only. Then it will only be regarded as her. How is this fair and how is competition not distorted since both undertakings pay the same high transport costs for their staff and products? Since an undertaking is engaged in real economic activity on an island, it should also benefit regardless of size, regardless of its location. The second reason why we are negative is that the bill is completely vague and unconstitutional. This is not the first time that we have met such provisions from your Ministry, Minister. You are once again asking Parliament to sign a white cheque to the government. You bring in a bill that at best is considered a proclamation of principles. In the view it sounds important: we will be subsidising the transport costs of islands and islands. In practice, however, everything refers to the bells and ministerial decisions. One of your own, namely the Minister of Shipping, and six joint ministerial decisions. There is not even provision for presidential decrees, which, as legislative instruments, fall under the control of legality by the Council of State. Also, introduce vague concepts, such as autonomy in terms of the provision of public services, and you consider that by adopting similar terms you will disorientate this House. That is why I ask you directly: which islands will qualify for the transport equivalent and on what criteria? What islanders will benefit and what criteria? There are islands - don't forget - from the islands you mention, which have no single resident and others that have twenty, twenty-five and thirty inhabitants and are old. At least commit whether or not there will be income criteria. Can you tell us what will be the real impact of the measure? The average household, let's tell Anafi, Symi, Lesvos, Psara, Kastelorizo, how much will it benefit? Of course you cannot answer these questions, Minister, because you have not done any work and why you do not want the islanders to understand that they will actually receive crumbs. You have determined by diabetic criteria only the islands where your exemplary policy will be piloted, while the rest will not enter. Because from 1-1-2019, not everything will come in. This is clear and is also mentioned in the recent fourth final evaluation of the programme. That's exactly why you haven't decided yet. I told you the other day, tick the fourth final assessment, which says that everything will not get in. These micro-policies are a daily life, and the deception remains. Today I will not go into the ties. We will be given the opportunity to have the debate in Parliament on the pre-dated order of business. I'm going to go to our third objection. The real reason why you bring the bill and, at this point in time, the urgency procedure is to cover your noise and your consequences from the abolition of the reduced VAT rates on the islands, which will take place next week, a political option that brings the signature SYRIZA - ANEL to be unsuccessful, since you have proposed it and accepted it in your famous negotiation and you have finally signed it. No other government has ever accepted this political choice, and I told you that Troika and Paul Thompsen forced us both in 2013 and in 2014 to sign and deny us categorically and the abolition of reduced rates has never been signed. In conclusion, what you are trying to achieve with this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRZA and ANELs, is to take a handful of euros from all the islanders and promise them a few minutes without even saying what they are for and what they are for, because they are not all entitled to them. As the Zappeion show showed last Friday, you think the Greek people are hollow and that the Greeks do not understand what you are trying to achieve and how you are mocking them. It may well be claimed that the transport equivalent has nothing to do with VAT, it is completely independent. And I reply to you in advance, on the one hand it is a later political position, because the exact opposite you said a few months ago and, on the other hand, if that is the case, why are you bringing the bill right now, now that by the end of the week you put the definitive tombstone on the VAT rate for the islands and, in fact, on the urgent procedure, and there is no other reason to speed up the examination of this bill? This is your hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And I'm on my way. Let us accept that transport is not directly related to the abolition of reduced VAT rates. Since these two issues, as you are involved, have nothing to do with each other, I challenge you and your Government to immediately reinstate the amendment to this bill on the reduced VAT rate on the islands - the amendment we have tabled - and the New Democracy is ready to sit with you, to discuss a bill and a transport equivalent, which will be operational and, of course, will endure the time, as I mentioned earlier. And since I mentioned the amendment we tabled, let me tell you recent developments in Europe on the VAT amendment. At this time - and today, we are talking about - the European Union is holding a consultation on amending Directive 2006/112/EC on VAT rates, as stated in the draft directive entitled 2018-2019. This directive will be passed now, it is the proposal of the Council Directive. It states: "All existing reduced rates, including the derogations, are currently in place", the derogations may relate to hotel units, i.e. there may be lower VAT in hotel units, etc., "... they are legally applied to the Member States of the European Union. They should be maintained and can be available in all Member States, ensuring equal treatment, which is a acquis of the island regions of the whole of the European Union." By using this option, Portugal already confirmed the exception to VAT on its islands, the Azores and Madeira, and, of course, it is based, as you will know, on Article 174 of the functioning of the European Union and Articles 5 and 9 of the Treaty on European Union. In Article 1, as I said the day before, we have reservations about the unit benefiting, the company benefiting, because it excludes large companies based in the islands. In Article 2, which concerns the regulation of the financing of the measure by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme, I told you that this is forbidden by the fourth assessment. Because it says that the Public Investment Programme should not be compressed any further. That is what the fourth assessment says. Please, I told you to see these issues. So the question arises reasonably from what economic source will come from the financing of this subsidy in 2019. In Article 3, which relates to the definition of beneficiaries of ANNOO. I have mentioned the examples of the headquarters' business and the fact that it is referred to a turnover, while the law, as I have said, does not refer to a turnover, but to net profits. As far as civil servants are concerned, I told you in Article 2, paragraph d(9), concerning these civil servants moving to carry out a service and who, as permanent residents of the islands, are entitled to a grant. It is not clear whether there is a segregation mechanism between private travel and not, so that the State does not double compensate for the official carrying out the service. In Article 4 regarding the determination of the factors of the software for determining the insular cost, i.e. it is a theoretical construction without substance, because all are referred to ministerial decisions. In other words, the Minister will decide on his own - I am not saying for you, the Minister concerned - obviously by satisfying customer relations. Furthermore, the provision does not clarify how the economics approach to the matter is made. No references shall be made to the budgetary problem of resources, methodology for monitoring and assessing the results of the measure. Mr. Karras said the other day that you have no advance on this matter. Assessment of the cost of benefits by category of beneficiaries, wholesalers, retailers, private transporters, private transport. In addition, an important issue is made with paragraph (c), because a maximum number of tickets is set. And what if they're not enough for everyone? Who's to be ruled out? The concept of autonomy in terms of the provision of public services is vague, designed to serve the customer interests of the Minister concerned. I told you the day before that, you told me about the presidential decree calculating distances from the CCTs. It is a ministerial decision, but there may be a later presidential decree. There I do not want to object to something that can in any case be corrected. There was a political decision, but a presidential decree may have been made. I told you that I don't oppose this and that's not the big one. In Article 6 on the establishment of the tasks of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy of your Ministry in implementing the measure, the entire procedure you describe is unclear. There is talk of an electronic platform under the responsibility of the General Secretariat of the Aegean. Is this going to be implemented in 2018? Are you sure about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u11	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u12	I say this because there is no clear timetable for implementation. As far as I understand it, if the platform is not completed, this subsidy measure cannot be implemented. Specifically see paragraph 6, sub-cases 3a and 3c concerning the powers to which you are responsible for the control by the municipalities. Do they have any resources? Where will they find the resources? Do they have any staff? These are issues which have also been raised by the CEDEFOP Legal Adviser. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. These are important issues and they must be seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u13	No, you're also taking the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, in a debate we have had with Mr Chiara now, we are open. If substantial improvements are made, we'll see them in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u15	Well, that's why you're using your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u16	In Article 7, I told you the day before yesterday to see this for the payment procedure at ANOVO, i.e. the compensation for the insular costs. Paragraph 1 shall also refer to the possibility of direct payment of the ticket to shipping companies. This could be done on the barren lines because there is an exception. The subsidy directly to shipping companies, Minister, is prohibited under Union legislation, especially if it is considered to be a line subsidy, so I told you to see this problem. Article 8 applies to the suspension of the payment of the ANNUO. There's no check to see it. Since it is up to him, who is entitled to, to declare that he is interrupting it, who will go state it? This is an issue that needs to be dealt with. Article 9 concerns the establishment of the Ministry's obligation to draw up national transport policy for a period of three years. I would like to point out that it is absolutely unclear who is working on this policy which has neither a scientific basis nor a cross-party acceptance at the stage of its preparation. Article 10 refers to some islands. I told you before. I have nothing more to add. We have said that we do not agree, because the Minister concerned is a legislator, which is forbidden and unconstitutional. As for the amendments, I mentioned one thing, but in view of the fact that I respect time, I shall refer to the other amendments. But legally, Minister, it's not your business. I told Mr. Polakis. In this amendment which takes up positions, take note of it. Whilst there is a need for staff in both hospitals and CEDEFOP, etc. - we have no objections - I told you to see the Court of Auditors' decision declaring all recruitments which are successively renewed. Of course, that solved a different issue. However, I have a concern about the identity of the legal word in this case and everything is being cancelled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fourteen students and an attendant from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies - Royal University of Chicago. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor from the Democratic Association. Mr. Carras, I've had a few seconds to realize that you're going to represent the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, you called me, so thank you. So I said to the committees and said to you, if you wish, that the transport equivalent is a good measure, but it can be incomplete or fail if it does not have a good background and the good background is usually the legislation, which introduces this measure. In this case the question of transport equivalent was raised. First of all, we cannot say it's not good. Of course, in terms of time and under the procedure of the importing urgency, it makes us suspicious, because at least calendars coincide with the time the reduced rate of VAT is due to end on the islands. So does the government want to show it is a counterbalance for the islanders' losses? But he expressly refuses to do so. It says it has nothing to do with it, but it is now because it is attempting to put it as the compensation for the VAT that is being abolished. But let's see if that's true. The transport equivalent is, of course, for passengers travelling from the islands to the centre or cyclically between the islands and the centre and, at the same time, for goods, for the subsidy of goods imported or exported from the islands. Of course, the whole islands in this period are not covered, because we are talking about a pilot measure to be implemented in the second half of 2018. However, I would like to make a parallel here between the benefit of VAT on all residents and companies on the islands. It was a reduced rate, reduced costs, reduced service costs, freight costs, operating costs in general, while on the contrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u19	Is this a matter of transport?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u20	Let me finish, Minister. I don't want to interrupt you, but I'm ready. It wasn't about them, but you'll hear from them next. Let's have some patience to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u21	Don't hide that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u22	I'm not hiding anything. Here's what I'm going to say. So benefiting from the reduced VAT was the whole. Benefits from transport equivalents are less. Of course, the question arises, especially in terms of goods: is the cost of the cost of the cost being reduced, but is economic benefit being distributed to everyone? I have asked a question and I have never received an answer from the committees. While it is said to contribute to the development of the islands, how will this measure contribute to development? I haven't got an answer. Indeed, with goodwill yesterday and yesterday in committee, I raised a number of questions: why should the measure be piloted for the first half of the year and not be piloted for the whole of the country, since we are talking about island policy? In any case, I saw that this cannot go any further and I made another proposal. I said that it should be in the pilot period - for which the law does not mention its expiry, it only speaks of 1-1-2018 - the end date of the six-month period is 31-12-2018 and the beginning of a general application for the whole island from 1-1-2019. I have received the answer that there will be a legislative improvement. We haven't seen her yet. Let's hope we see her. A second question, which limits the scope of the transport equivalent, is that according to the text of the law, it says: 'In the island municipalities where the measure is to apply'. Neither are they named, but in relation to the text of the consultation, as it had been put to the public's attention, it said that it is the entire island country geographically. So we have a differentiation here in relation to the original announcement and the current legislature. I have therefore asked that this should also be stated, namely, that from 1 to 2019 it will be the whole of the island country. At the moment, the accelerating body - let us say - is the Ministry of Shipping and the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. So I asked the question, why does it not have territorial powers beyond the south and north Aegean, as is at least on the Ministry's website. I have received the answer, vague but I hope that some time it will be implemented: 'Do you know what? We promote a draft Presidential Decree to change the competence of the General Secretariat of the Aegean, to extend it to the entire island country." I wouldn't have had enough of that. I would say that we can put it into the law from now on that the application of the measure concerns the entire island country, so that at least it can move forward, so that there are no divisions, no room - I would say - for flexibility, which we can get to the exceptions of large areas. After all, if the measure concerns islanders and goods moved to and from the islands, why should there be no equivalence and equivalence between them? Of course, the question of the big companies raised by the committee and the Scientific Service of the House will not concern me much about the reason that an example was given yesterday and I understood which great company it is. It is a company that operates throughout Greece. I do not think it will have any impact on this point. Anyway, I'm coming back. I am therefore waiting for the legislative improvement and the question of extending the measure as a whole from its first new year to Greece. I also expect something else that has been considered: the way in which the compensation is paid. She has two alternative ways. Indeed, the legislation leaves them to the Minister's choice. It will either be directly on the beneficiary's account or it will be via the agent by reducing the ticket. We do not agree with the reduction of the ticket. We want it to be done through 'TAXIS' so that there is transparency and transparency. Finally, the beneficiary should know what he is receiving and what he is not receiving. Do not do so through agents and shipping companies whose accounts work in many different ways. Not that I have doubts about their honesty. I have doubts as to how the measure is effective, whether it will eventually lead to reduced tickets or reduced tariffs for those who have the right. I think, therefore, that with these remarks and the fact that there are many authorizing provisions, I have to say that the Democratic Partnership awaits legislative improvements to assess its final position on the bill. What I would like to say, of course, and to which I wish to stand, is a matter which also touches me personally because of my island origin - you will allow me to say this - is maritime education. Maritime education is a major issue for Greece due to the position of Greek-owned shipping in the international economy. 20% - 25% of the world's maritime transport is made by Greek-owned ships. In the meantime, we now see that there is a need not only of introversion, of creating high-level crews for Greek ships. In order to stop unemployment in seafarers, they must be ready, they must be well trained, so that they can enter ships not only under another flag but also under other ownership. To be able to upgrade Greek crews. The Kalymnos School, which is a solid request which, obviously, as I have been informed, has been here for many years, is currently being proposed by means of the provision to be established. Boat school, though. Is that enough? I had a discussion at the hearing of the bodies with the mayor, because his view and mine are that, if we want to upgrade maritime education, there must be synergies so that we have a better level of education, but we must also have better use of educational instruments or staff training. So he should go with mechanic. It is not enough for the masters to go. After all, there must also be contact from the educational stage, given who command the ship? The master and the first engineer. They run the ship. They must have a training ID. Unfortunately I don't see there being a School of Engineering in Kalymnos right now. It is an issue that raises doubts about the measure. The Kalymnons have the heat. From the statistics, which I have, it seems that a large number of young Calimonis turns to the navy profession. A large number of them, of course, are themselves in the direction of engineers. Let us remember the word "mechanical", which was the sponges with the scanner, so that we could go back a little bit further. I therefore think that we should also see to it that a School of Engineering is set up so that it can work. Of course, with regard to the infrastructure which I have heard there will be grants from shipowners and so on, on the one hand, I do not think that a state operation can be covered only by donations, and on the other hand, EUR 190 000, which is mentioned in the report from the General Accounting Office as the first amount of equipment and, on the other hand, the disposal of a building from the municipality - of which we do not know its real situation, let us accept that it is good - I do not think it is enough at this time. I would like to say, however, that we cannot be negative on the provision for maritime education. However, I would just like to remind you here that the former mayor of Kalymnos has also repeatedly raised the issue, and indeed the reasons why there must be a School of Engineering, by letter from Dimitris Interpartisi to all parties and ministers. There are the answers to these questions I have raised and I shall submit it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the amendments, I will take my term of denial, Mr President. In attempting to summarize the bill, I have been calling the legislature imperfect so far, suspecting the time of legislating, waiting for legislative improvements to weigh our final position. I note only this: that this is another example of the transfer, transfer of Parliament's power to the relevant Minister of Legislation, because he has four or five issues of joint ministerial decision. In view of the importance of this issue, we would propose that a presidential decree be adopted so that it can also be put under the control. Of course, with regard to technical matters, I will not insist on the fact that, in the context of the detailed draft legislation, we will insist on the adoption of a Presidential Decree so that it can also be put under the suffering of the Council of State, given that the adoption of a Presidential Decree is also contained in the same bill, because the legislation on maritime education does not allow the operation of a Naval School if it has not been adopted before - even if its establishment has been legislated by a law of the House - and the Presidential Decree which regulates the operation of the School. With these thoughts I shall conclude, Mr President, and I await the government's replies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kouzelos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the equivalent, a first approach, a first study carried out - and for us it was completely wrong - was in 2012. It was a study that he did was to get data from countries such as Scotland, Norway, France, and was related only to the barren lines. In fact, what comes today is a Greek transport equivalent that tries to approach the problems of the islands of our country. Our territorial peculiarity creates many problems in the matter of maritime transport. Now I want to go to article 1. Transport equivalent, Article 1, definitions: ‘It is the measure which seeks to equate transport costs, which corresponds to passengers and goods by means of maritime transport with the costs to be incurred in the means of transport on land for the same distance’. This particular article and the definition, but the objections we have in this particular article are: You say it equates. As I said to you in committee and I have explained to you, it does not really equate. I will not only go to VAT 24% referred to by all the rapporteurs. I will tell you that the cost and the problem of the islander is not just that. It is the reduction of duty-free, it is the increases in insurance contributions, it is the increases in the raw materials that exist. You tell me, it's not positive. Yes, it is positive that the equivalent from the moment it comes and when it does not come the way it was proposed in 2012 to come. That's the key to us. That is why we say that the definition is not correct, it does not actually equilibrium. We have 60 million for this year, up to 2019, mainly over 150, a key issue to develop our islands. I'll go back to your statement. It is a question of finding and strengthening the real scale of the burden on the island merchant and of touching the main causes. In the main causes, apart from the previous ones I mentioned, I would also like to add the cost of fuel, the cost of ticketing ships, in which they are in and in the shipping fuels, where in the committee, what we have said is that we must now see what happens with the increase in shipping fuels of at least 10% to 20% by changing to low sulphur. All this will be a burden on the transport equivalent. Essential preconditions for the continued existence of the transport equivalent. And we should also see the cost of fuel on the islands. It's not just transport, it's transport on the island. A truck that'll get potatoes from Naxos from the field to take them to the port, it's costing. You need to lower that cost, too. It's not just the ticket. In Article 9, "National Transport Equivalent Implementation Policy" what you said and claim is that we came out of the memoranda. And in three years from now we will have corrected whatever problems we have created in the transport equivalent, and there will be no problem. I stress again, we didn't come out of the memos. Supervision will continue to exist, austerity measures will continue to exist, others say by 2060. So what concerns us about the whole transport equivalent is this: you say that the funding will be from the Public Investment Programme, a programme that all the ministries say we will get money from there. The transport equivalent should be paid each year. Sometime they won't stop there being money? Can you finance the transport equivalent from this fund from this programme? Basic questions. Will it be piloted for three years, will we see the weaknesses that exist and then will there continue to be money? And above all, it is how much this poorer Public Investment Programme will last. Everyone puts a hand in there, everyone gets money from that. We also expect to see the KLAs which you said as a ministry, especially on the issue of fuels and the agreement with ELPEs, to see what will be the case. I'm going a little to Article 3. The worrying thing about us is: What does Article 3 say who are beneficiaries? Apart from the permanent residents of the islands, they are foreigners who have a residence permit. We all know what happened to the social dividend. It was only the Greeks who took it. With regard to Articles 4 for the calculation of ANOO, Competent Institutions - Enforcement procedure Article 6, Payment of ANOB Article 7, all improvements will certainly take at least one year to see what will happen on these issues and see exactly where the whole system is hurting. That is why we do not want to rush to draw conclusions on this. We got some answers to the committees. We believe there will be little problems, but at least they will remain small. Mr Santorinier, at the 14th Regional Conference of the Production Reconstruction of the North Aegean, you said that "with the transport equivalent we are meeting a consistent request from the islands". That's right. You said to the committee that 'it is an institutional section'. However, I will add something else which will be a small correction that should exist. It is constitutionally regulated by Article 101 of the Constitution, administrative decentralisation: ‘The joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are required to take into account the particular circumstances of island and mountainous areas, by ensuring that they are developed’. And because we are talking about growth, and because we have also raised this issue and that the transport equivalent is at the beginning and to slowly come growth on the islands too, the conditions for growth are all that I have put to you. In other words, we cannot have increased insurance contributions, with a tax reduction, at a high fuel cost on the islands. So how's growth going to be? You will have to deal with this after the first half of the year, in fact. There has been a lot of talk about Article 12. It is a constant request for the Kalymnos School, a very large request from the shipping community, for more schools, for more academies in the country. There are already studies that say that in ten years' time the world shipping community will need some fifty thousand officers. Our country has a high education, a highly skilled staff and, above all, a word that no one has in the world and no one can understand, only we have this - seasickness. So it's positive. We believe that the School of Masters of Kalymnos will work in September - October to welcome the first-years. We believe that in a year from now there will also be a school in the Dodecanese, if not in Kalymnos. There is indeed a problem in the Dodecanese, where there is no school. I have lived as a freshman at the Schools of the Commercial Navy to have children of Kalymnos all over Greece and especially Dodecanese, who imagine that they were in Preveza, Kymi. That was a great cost then. So he's going to solve a very big problem right now. On this occasion, we must stress that we are in favour of public maritime education. We don't believe in private maritime education. Some circles in recent years have tried to promote private maritime education. We do not agree with the NSEs and private programmes. Because that's how they're trying to get into the game right now, with private programs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u25	Don't these circles have a name?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u26	Wait. What's your hurry? I'll come with evidence next time. If New Democracy wants to make an up-to-date question about naval education, we can all come with evidence. Because for the transport equivalent this question was asked, it was simply not answered by you because it came as a bill. But because you have put it now, as Mr Santorini has said, you also have to do your promise. Who finally brought the VAT? You said you would bring evidence and testify to the Minutes of the House. Can we finally see the VAT who brought him, you or the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u27	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u28	I'm gonna need two, three minutes of my dentistry, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I'm closing down with the territorial cohesion you said, Mr. Kurubli. Let me remind you - and for those who do not know - that there is a press release in May, where you met in the European Union Committee on Transport and Tourism and you spoke about territorial cohesion. You said that Europe, when it talks about territorial cohesion, must mean it. The reduction of cohesion policy funds, even for the current period, is exacerbating inequalities. That is where I want to fill in with your transport equivalent and your next move. Because, as I said to you, I wonder how much this poor public investment programme will last, how much it will have money and be able to do, because we are talking about a cost of at least EUR 150 million per year. We're starting over there. So what you say, 'our friends', should they look at Greece's peculiarity, the peculiarity we have with our polynesia? We have so many islands. They come, they enjoy everything, they enjoy tourism, they enjoy our sun and we actually pay them with the memos. This is the next issue you should raise in the European Community. We've got a lot of islands. We've taken all the weight with illegal immigrants. We see the reactions that exist throughout Europe at the moment. And what is happening is that Europe, through this specific policy, based on GDP, will actually reduce our funds. I close with this: As long as there is a memorandum, supervision, hard budgetary policy, austerity measures, development in our country will come too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers of Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy and Tourism, the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Human Rights and Economics, as well as the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Economic Affairs, have tabled a draft law on 26-6-2018: 'Security and pension arrangements - Fight against undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers - Commissioners for Unaccompanied Mental and Other Provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. MEP Mr Theodoros Karaoglou asks for a short-day absence abroad from 27-6-2018 to 1-7-2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Tassos has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, but also of other urban parties, and of social policy issues, despite your individual differences, the core of your policy is the same. And this core is that the poor pay the poorest. The various countermeasures and equivalents in practice carry resources from the many poor to the few rich and give some crumbs to the poorest. This, of course, is combined with covering up what is really happening and with an attempt to deceive and manipulate the people. A characteristic example is the transport equivalent, where, in the face of the need for islanders and the whole of the people for cheap, unpredictable, modern coastal transport of thirty-five days a year, with crews with permanent and stable work, full work and insurance rights and organic structures, which will fully meet the needs of ships and the safety of human life at sea, against exile tax measures and rafts, the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands, wage reductions, pensions, seizures, auctions, commemorative policy, no memoranda, but a memorandum policy, that is, the same policy - the government responds with the challenge of transport equivalent, bringing Parliament and the bill, which is nothing more than just another form of grant to shipowners. It should be noted that shipowners for barren lines since the beginning of the year have already received EUR 120 million as a subsidy. Vessel capital is rich with the increased prices of tickets and freight and car fares, with privileges, with fifty-six tax exemptions - even the whiskey they drink in their yachts is tax-free! - which give them many billion euros each year - which you certainly do not understand to be affected, because these are the 'early cows' - and state subsidies which have exceeded EUR 1.2 billion since the vote on Law 2932/2001 on shipping, in the context of the implementation of the European Union's Anti-Fraud Regulation 3577/1992 on the liberalisation of inland shipping. In the form of the shipowners' bill, not only do they bear nothing, because what has been collected will be collected, as many government MPs have said with great emphasis, using it as an unspeakable argument on their part to relinquish the JRC for its negative vote. We, Members of Parliament, are opposed to this logic that the poor pay the poorest. The transport equivalent would be a redistributive measure, if the cost of it was borne by the rich - in this case shipowners - and it was incurred by means of a drastic reduction in the prices of tickets and freight for the transport of vehicles by 50% on the coastline and free movement for the unemployed and their families, soldiers, MEDAs etc. But you cannot do that, because you and other urban parties drink water in the name of capitalism and the European Union, NATO and other imperialist organisations. You are proud of and advertise the slap in wages, pensions and labour rights to attract investment. You are the capital of imperialism in our neighborhood, hence the "bravo" that you receive from the right and from the left. At the same time, the government, with fair growth and sustainable development, is falsifying the workers and the people, namely those who produce the wealth that they too will become rich if they do not deny themselves the wealth they produce, to the shipowners, to the industrialists, to the bankers and in general to the famous markets. The workers and the people on the islands suffer from anti-population policy, and the government is trying to make them unreasonable, presenting a virtual reality, as they do with so-called "developing conferences" or here the bill on the transport equivalent of the Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy, which attempts to make the white one. The transport equivalent is projected to compensate for tax fraud against the popular layers of the islands, reducing the transport costs of trafficking in human beings and goods. The criterion to determine the amount of transport costs paid is the cost of tickets from mainland Greece's CBELs. The amount to be reimbursed will be a difference resulting from the comparison of the price of the ship's ticket for the financial position with the cost of the CBS ticket for a corresponding distance from the mainland, using various parameters. The transport equivalent excludes those who work on the islands, as well as those who have declared to the tax office that their permanent residence is in the mainland. It obviously excludes the popular strata of the mainland that they need or want to travel to the islands. If, in other words, someone wants to go to an island to make tourism, they will not have the transport equivalent, because it is only about those who live on the islands, about moving them from the islands to the mainland. These are luxurys that are not allowed for you! The JRC calls on the labour-popular strata of the islands to respond to anti-population policy and government stifling. Enhancing now their struggle to directly claim a drastic reduction in the prices of tickets and freight transport of vehicles by 50% on the coastline, free movement for the unemployed and their families, the soldiers, the AIFMs, seamen with sectoral collective labour agreement with increases and structured labour rights, which meet the real needs of the industry, launching modern ships for the regular connection of the islands with the ports of mainland Greece and insular connection for the whole year. To restore the reduced rate of VAT for all the islands and to abolish for people's consumption, duty-free individual limit for all 20,000 euros, increased by 5000 euros for every child, deducted from taxation and health, PPC, heating, water, telephone, etc., abolish the ENPIA and all characters, banning seizures and auctions for the working folk family, exclusively public maritime education and post-training for all seafarers. The battle of people's forces must be given a great deal of determination for all problems, for collective agreements, wages and pensions, labour rights, health and welfare, education, transport, in order to demand the recovery of the losses of the period of crisis and the satisfaction of all modern popular needs. The JRC is at the forefront of organising popular struggle in the workplaces and branches, in the House, in the municipal and regional councils, everywhere to promote these claims, revealing the anti-popular policy and the goals it serves. At the same time, the JRC is struggling and calling on the working people's forces to co-operate with it so that the working people's opposition and social alliance to overthrow anti-popular politics and power can be decisively strengthened. Only with the labour power, the socialisation of all major businesses, the central planning can open the way so that the economy can serve the needs of the people and not the interests of the monopolies. Only in this way can modern, safe and cheap ferry transport be ensured for all islands. As you can see from what I have said and as we have said to the committees, we are voting against this bill in principle. On the articles and the amendments we shall be putting into our dentistry, but I would now like to take note of a serious issue relating to Amendment No 1268/43 by the Ministry of Health, which, incidentally, we shall vote in favour. The amendment gives an extension of the term of office to ancillary staff who were recruited until 1-8-2017. There are, however, 20 subsidiary in the 4th Thessaloniki Region, who signed their contract on 9-8-2017, without this being their fault. As you can see, it would be unfair for them to be excluded. That is why we call on the Ministry of Health to include these 20 assistants too, so that they too can extend their term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u32	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Tassos. Mr Helios has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment relates to an improvement in the last agency of the Labour Inspectorate. As you may be aware, with the last Organisation of the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour Inspectorate closes a series of wounds that had been opened with the Organogram of 2014, after a series of new sections were created, which had been closed, such as the Legal Support Department, as well as new units. What is added and has already been submitted to the dialogue and unions of workers, but also to many inspectors, is that precisely because the Head and Director of the Labour Inspectorate has a very crucial role and control role, but also for internal control issues, it is necessary that people who are judged as heads and directors, in addition to the other criteria set by the Public Service Code, have at least three years' pre-service as Labour Inspectors, so that they can really meet this task. That is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u34	The Secretary of State for Culture also wants to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u35	Good morning, honourable Members. I present today Amendment No 1632/37 on the property management framework and in particular the refreshments of the country's archaeological sites and museums. Some eighty refreshments operate in the country's archaeological sites and museums, forty of which are in the largest areas that attract millions of visitors and in particular fifteen in the very large areas that are also the front of the country. The management framework for these refreshments has so far been established by Law 2557/1997 which, in fact, only provided for renting of these areas. In the first place, we are broadening the aims of the Archaeological Resources Fund, so that, in addition to drawing up revenue through leasing, the fund can be aimed at highlighting cultural heritage and providing high quality products and services, so that specific conditions can be laid down for the operation of these real estates and refreshments. The tools with which the Archaeological Resources Fund can make use of these refreshments are also expanded. Apart from leasing, public contracts, concession contracts, especially for social and solidarity economic operators, and the possibility - which will be considered if it is beneficial - of establishing a legal person who will undertake to manage exclusively some of these refreshments after study. This will be implemented after the adoption of the Central Archaeological Board, i.e. after scientific confirmation of this whole programme of use and development. The big question arises as to what we are doing with refreshments that are currently empty, closed, because the previous round of contracts has ended and the previous leasers have left. We therefore recommend an excellent regulation based on the following facts: first of all, there are strong reasons for public interest. Archaeological sites and museums are a visit from millions of visitors around the world and health issues are raised, but also issues of defamation of the country. Secondly, we consider that leases in themselves are excluded from the scope of the legislation, the European and Greek, on public procurement. Thirdly, such legislation, which does not apply as a letter of the Leasing Act, provides for exceptional arrangements in cases where there is a public interest and there is no responsibility of the contracting authority. So we propose, with the amendment, that there should be a possibility of short-term contracts of up to eighteen months for just once and with strong wage assessment clauses resulting from this process. We then maintain various other provisions of the existing legislation concerning the expulsion of employees, the framework for the granting of real estate by the Ministry of Culture and, of course, the licensing of refreshments exclusively by the Ministry of Culture. The archaeological sites, museums, monuments of the country are specifically a refreshment in each of them. Only the Minister of Culture can authorize the operation of these areas as refreshments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendances from the "Platos" Schools. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. To get together, today's bill is about 15% of the country's population. I believe that it does not have one country, neither in the Eurozone nor in the European Union. It's only Greece. I say again that it is about 15% of the country's population. I listened very carefully to all the special speakers. I have good words to say. After the first reactions, I see a milder treatment. However, I would like to speak with information and say: what has really prevented the governments at that time? In 1981, when Greece joined the European Union, other countries, such as Denmark, Ireland, Great Britain, later Spain and Portugal, gained privileges and achieved special conditions for their islands. You who were then what privileges did you have? Soon after that, with the Maastricht Treaty, there could be little mention. While the island regions of France, Spain, even for the overseas islands that they have, what reference was then made to the Greek islands? Article 158 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, signed in 1997, also aims to reduce disparities in the level of development of the various regions. I guess the islands should be inside. Nothing! You come here and indicate. Well you do and point out, it's not bad, to see what you did for the 15% of the citizens of this country. Also, Article 101 of the Constitution didn't come yesterday, it's old. It refers to the particular circumstances of the island regions. Did you take advantage of it? Did you step up there? Furthermore, Article 106 of the Constitution speaks of promoting regional development, particularly the promotion of the economy of mountainous and border regions. What did you do? You didn't do anything. I'm sorry to say that. I think that the debate that is taking place today is a good one. Should I inform you, should this government inform you that the cost of life on the islands is 23% more expensive than for everyone else, the common mortals? It's no coincidence that the Deputy Minister, Mr. Santorinios, is from an island. Me and Mr. Kourublis are from areas that don't have islands. Elias Cameros is from an island. Yannis Giannelis is from an island. So they know very well what it means to live on an island. I will only give you one example which will surprise you and you may not even believe it. Do you know how much it takes a truck to leave China and come to Piraeus? He needs 500 to 700 euros. That's how it takes. Did anyone ever tell you all these years that the same dalika to leave the port of Piraeus and go to an island costs 1,200 to 1,700 euros? Did you say anything? What did you do about them? They're old stories, too old, they can't be. What have you been doing all these years? Listen to me. I was first pleased to hear that 15% of the Greek population was the beginning. I didn't hear any triumphs or too much talk. And in the suggestion made by the Minister and the Undersecretary and the rapporteur, I have not heard any triumphs. Here we go. In the last six months of 2018, 60 million. Let the islanders hear that. Let's rethink your position, because you're very acid on the first day. I have to say that every day, tons are softened up a little. So they're a little - I'm gonna say that with numbers to get together - first on forty nine islands piloted and then on all, except in Crete, why do you know that they have a population of more than five hundred thousand, except for Lefkada and Evia who are not islands why they communicate with the land? Is it a little bit for a four-member family in Psara - poverty - without tax, without IKA, with nothing, without a rural doctor, without, without having seven trips go - come and save, say, 958 euros? Is it a bit? If it's a little bit, tell me. Because I hear you're talking about crumbs. And this is not only about residents who are first written. It's about business too. Is it a little in the first semester, again, in 2018, an island business to benefit from the pilot project in Alonissos, Ikaria, Kalymnos, Kos, Lesvos, Chios? Can I read you the numbers? They're big enough. What does that mean? Was it or weren't these people inherited from the rest of the Greek society? It was. For the first time they're joining us! What did the Ionian islands do to you? What did the Sporades do to you and you had it outside? The islands of the Argosaronic, what did you do and have them out of all these stories? I just want to be precise with numbers. It's not just about passengers, because I heard here that they're going to the ferry companies. I think the Minister answered very sharply and did well. Don't twist reality. Is this all about merchandise? Yeah. Are these fuels involved? Yeah. I'm going further. I'll calm down, when these islands really get taxi and IKA and rural doctor and school again. What happened so far not to say, you know. I would respectfully like to say this: Some are making patriots in here and well they do and may be. In practice, however, they should show it. So the Lady of Rao sat alone on this island. It is of great importance to the neighbor, because it is a matter of national importance, that there should be even one permanent resident! And it's for us all the heroines, the Lady of Russell. You know, however, that from 2002 until now, while inhabited by the six thousand islands were the hundred twenty-seven, today is the hundred ten four, because people there feel abandoned completely. One of the islands not inhabited is the island of Ro. In practice, then, patriotism, not in words. I mean, I mean, no one triumphed. Can I say something? We're late. What can we do first? From morning to night I hear dangers, excesses, unbelievable things. A deal was signed three days ago. I mean, half a word about it. I leave what "BLOOMBERG", I leave what "WALL STREET JOURNAL", I leave what the "FINANCIAL TIMES" say, which are the holy ones, which give a message to the markets, leave the upgrade of "Standard & Poors", I leave the good words of "Moody's", I am not talking at all about the good words of politicians, because they may have had an interest in vomiting everything. These centers I told you, what's the interest? None. A misunderstanding in this story is the Party of Officers and Ms. Fofi Gennimata, because a small part of the office's politician, that is, from 6/6, 1/6 denounces the agreement, the other 5/6 is in favour. The parentheses are closed. I would like to refer to an article written on the headline of its financial paper 'KATHMERINI'. He signs it - and I'll beg you to read it - Costas Calitsis. I repeat, "KATHMERINI" writes it, don't think I'm wrong, it doesn't write it "HAY". Read this article. It's a bidramical article. No Member has spoken with such positive words about this agreement. I say all this to finish with the following: I hear all the time about VAT. New Democracy's pain has worked for the five islands. I'll agree with you. I'm with you, Mr. Athanasios. Didn't anyone tell you about VAT, HICPIA, the 45 billion cut-off pensions 11 times, did anyone tell you about all this memorandum story, which you should once do your self-criticism, how it bankrupt the country? Baroufakis went bankrupt in six months? Do you think that even a citizen other than your fanatical fans believe you? Collective conventions have destroyed all of these. So there was a lot of VAT. You have reached the country's unemployment at some point at 28% and have disappeared the property of Greek citizens. I don't like big talk. The apologies and all that, I think, is a little nonsense. Self-criticism is a reliable self-criticism, 'children, we made these mistakes. That's what happened.' And you're coming now and you're talking about VAT. Can I tell you something? I agree with you. VAT should be zero with migration history. At least for the big islands it had to be zero. Is that something we can and we don't? Be patient, you and all the Greeks. In this country, in this room some people have put a bet on two things. Firstly, they did not come to the House to get rich, and secondly, they did not come to make public relations with the hundreds of families who plundered recycled for forty years. You should put this right in your mind. We're a little careful because the deal's still evolving. The first was what happened on 21 June. We are also waiting on 20 August because some who have been successful, who have been exaggerated as their permanent pattern, I believe they will have no reason to have any say, will have no credibility anymore. That is why we are very careful about VAT. Do a little patience for that, and for the reduced pensions that we have actually signed for the tax. Do a little patience, because I believe that something is changing in this country and that government is determined to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you that from the left chairs of the Bureau, Mrs Irina Gerovaya, the first Vice-President of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and the Ambassador of the Russian Federation to Athens, Mr Andrey Maslov, are following the meeting. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u39	I wish you success in your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u41	Our colleagues from the Greek Parliament can also hope and look forward to cooperation with our own parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, it doesn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u43	He wishes us success, and we can hope for good cooperation between the two parliaments. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr Stathakis, to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u44	These are two extensions of time and two verbal legal systems. The first time-limit is for the finalisation of first registrations of land registers. They are the ones who had been closed for fourteen years. A three-month extension was made, mainly in response to the late entry on the part of the public. An additional extension for another six months is hereby granted, so as to finalise the possibility of avoiding a risk of consolidation of disputed legal relationships. The second extension of the suspension of execution is for the IGM. I would remind you that a year ago we voted for the twelve-month suspension of seizures against the EGMG, raised by retired people of FYROM. It is proposed that this extension be extended for four more months, having as a given - then we promised - that there will be the new law on the IGM, which is ready and in consultation in the next few weeks, so the extension of the four months is too long, because the new law on the IGM has now been passed, which fully reforms this body and at the same time also protects the IGM's mobile and immovable property for obvious reasons of its more obvious public interest. These are the two amendments and they are also two legislative amendments concerning errors on the first extension. This is deposit number 1629/44/26-6-2018. The two legislative proposals are therefore: 'The first paragraph of the article entitled 'Extension of the deadline for the finalisation of first registers' - what I said before - 'the sentence of paragraph 1' is replaced by 'paragraph 2'. in the second subparagraph of Article 2, ‘30-1-2018’ is replaced by ‘3-1-2018’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u45	Minister, one clarification. Are these amendments that you have said you are bringing them into an amendment with two articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u47	Why are you doing this? One sounds good. I don't know, of course, I'm not in charge, but it's not working. How will you bring two amendments separately? Let's see. If he's in an article, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u48	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u49	Is it two different amendments or one?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u50	One amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u51	But it's two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u52	They shall be voted on as one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u53	But that's not things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u54	Mr Spyridon Dannelis, a special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with an observation that I have made about the various qualities I have at times had in public life. Insularity, i.e. the different terms, conditions and additional difficulties faced by island communities in terms of ensuring a decent and quality life, and in relation to any development and action, are not understandable to everyone. It takes the experience of islands to understand the special conditions of the islands. Greece is the ninety-seventh to an extent in the world, but the eleventh to a coastline. It is the largest country in number of inhabited islands throughout the European Union and the four of its thirteen regions are purely islands. No other country in Europe, however, presents this synonym, the multi-insularity that Greece has. The particular morphology of the coastline of the mainland is known as the thousands of islands, whether inhabited or uninhabited or rocky islands. Maintaining island populations as well as addressing demographic anemia at a time when mobility is a norm, is a matter of great national importance especially in our case. The islands with fewer than five thousand inhabitants is not only that they have infrastructures that are generally less than desirable. Life in the small islands because of their geographicality has never been as easy as in larger cities. The island populations have always encountered problems in transport and hence in trade, in the economy, in tourism, in all activities and, of course, in their consistency with the continental regions, because the development potential of the island regions is delimited by the small size of local markets and the problems of access to larger continental markets. Another key point, as it is obvious, is the connection between the islands and, above all, the continental trunk of the country, both for the transport of passengers and the movement of people and, of course, for the transport of goods. Due to their geographical isolation, insufficient transport infrastructure and non-performing connection, in particular, small island communities have greater difficulty in travelling and must, of course, pay far higher transport costs than the services on land. The average distances between health and education areas are generally larger than those in the European Union. However, transport is an integral part of development, if not a sufficient treaty for the progress of a society or region. In the context of a favoured state, therefore, we must ensure a minimum socially acceptable level of transport for all the islands, a link between them and the interior to continue their commercial activity, exports, tourism and, of course, the permanent access of their inhabitants to the continent, to their social lives, to employment, education and to provide health services. We must add here the phenomenon of dual islandity, which we have very much in our country. A lot of islands have a relationship of dependency from some larger island in which they are close. But what do we define as the transport equivalent, which is the basic idea of the draft legislation under discussion? The transport equivalent shall constitute the principle that seafarers, from and to the islands, are required to pay fares equal to those charged for the use of other means of transport, road and rail, for their journey at similar distances. The transport equivalent shall aim to harmonise as far as possible the tariffs for the user of maritime transport with that of terrestrial transport and to obtain a similar service, irrespective of the means of transport used in terms of frequency, cost, travel time, distance travelled, as well as the quality provided. It is no coincidence that the theory of transport equivalent has already been developed since the mid-1970s and has been applied for the first time in the tariff system of Norway, a country which is very insular, without that, of course, meaning that international experience is immediately exploitable, because the differences and specificities of each island region are very large and vary. The transport equivalent is not a simple case and, of course, it varies considerably between the most important European cases, such as France, Scotland, Norway, where it has developed. This is because the networks of the countries to which the Transport Equivalent applies are considerably differentiated from the Greek network in terms of their structural and qualitative characteristics. In any case, the logic of the application of the transport equivalent was that the citizens of the island country with the payment of taxes, like the inhabitants of the mainland, offer the possibility for the state to build and maintain infrastructure such as roads and bridges. However, the roads and bridges link all over the mainland, outside the islands, on a daily basis serving all citizens other than islands. The islanders, who, like all other citizens, pay taxes to them, cannot use this network of roads unless they undergo additional costs in order to move from their islands to the mainland, an important price that is the fare for transporting them by ship. Of course, in discussing the equivalent of transport, we cannot make a reference to the unforgettable Tasos Aliferis, the last-year Mayor of Tilos, who actually gave the struggles of his life to transfer this great political practice to Greek reality. It was the one who laid the basis, the first attempt to implement the transport equivalent in Greece back in 2000 with the "Sea Star Tylos" which operated the route Tilos - Rhodes with eight routes per week, except for winter periods, owned and managed by the Municipality of Tilos. It is worth noting that during the 2009-2010 route with the Sea Star Tylos fourteen thousand island passengers were moved within one year. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to face today's bill as what it really is, as a step only, a first step towards tackling all the problems that islands have as effective as islands. It is clearly not an integrated island policy and clearly does not remove the existing inequalities that characterise life on the islands. In addition, there are very few funds to be made available. But it is the first step after decades of public debate on this useful tool. This is a primary application, an application that will help us draw conclusions for use in the future, in order to change it, amend it, broaden it. Obviously an island like Crete could not enter the first pilot run with so limited resources. But when we talk about islands, it is obviously necessary to address the islands that characterise the entire populations of the islands. However, the pilot implementation of this idea should not become a field of barren micro-party tactics and be compared with other tools to mitigate islandity such as reduced VAT rates on islands. The common feature is that both are protectionist tools. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be clean with the Greek people and also with our consciences and with a view to fundamentally reintroducing politics. The hypocrisy of the convenience of counter-population to think that such issues can be dealt with by an amendment does not help. And it does not help to strengthen the credibility of the political system in society. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the simulation of our VAT rates is a burden on us in the third memorandum. It was a Memorandum obligation. It starts to run from 1-10-2015, where the first group of islands - Mykonos, Rhodes, Santorini, Paros, Naxos, if I remember correctly - simulates VAT rates. There's a second team next. And now we are talking about the third group which, from the day after, has been deprived of the reduced rates of VAT. What we must consider and do as a criticism, but also as a self-critic, all of us - who, in order to save the country at that time, supported the third memorandum - were then to realise that we should not be talking about the abolition of the low rates but about a 'false' of the low rates in order to have the window when the conditions are improved, but rather about reconstructing the use of this tool. Let us not forget, too, that the implementation of the reduced rates did not produce the desired results because it did not always result in the benefit of the consumer, the user of a service or consumer product. And that is another issue that we must see again without hypocrisy. I also want to say that we should not ignore the fact that there is another tool to lift part of the island that has to do with island farmers and farmers, which we have decades now and which is not properly implemented. We have not been able to make use of the 24 to 26 million available every year to support farmers, farmers on the smaller Aegean islands. In other words, the whole Aegean islands except Crete and Evia. And I am referring to the programme of support for agriculture on the smaller Aegean islands. I need to shorten my place. Ladies and gentlemen, transport equivalents are compatible with European Union law in the field of maritime transport. In the context of the possibility for Member States to impose public service obligations, the transport equivalent principle is one of the methods to determine the price of the ticket for those services. We must not forget that the proposal on equivalent transport has for years been tightened by private operators and local communities on the islands. For years there have been efforts to adopt good practices from countries in Europe, the others that have implemented the equivalent of transport, but these efforts have always been stumbled at the insurmountable difficulties they have had with either bureaucracy or the failure to specialise in these tools. The final objective of the island policy is the need to offer our islands the same potential for development that is enjoyed by all the other European regions. And transport equivalent, I say, is a principle, incomplete, but it's the first attempt. In addition, the State's job is to shape the conditions which will enable private communities to develop without losing their character to transform the possibilities they already have into tangible projects and results. And in relation to the large islands of the country and our continental regions, the small island economies do not offer the opportunities that people who live in them deserve. The European islanders of Greece are looking for uninterrupted new ventures and ideas in agriculture either in tourism or in trade, which will enable them to prosper, and why not divert, without having to separate their place. So let us help them, and let us look at this bill as a minimum principle, so that we can build in the future other larger-scale interventions that will, as far as possible, lift the imbalance that characterises the island population in relation to the population of the rest of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Saridis, from the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, just three years ago the Greek Government announced to the Greeks that it would give them the opportunity to express themselves by means of a referendum. What happened in the country from that moment on, from that day on, everyone remembers it and describes it in their own way. The three years may be little to heal the wounds of the Greeks, but enough to draw some conclusions. One of the findings, which are not easily questioned, is that the Greeks' confidence in the existing political system has been shaken. Today, just three years after that referendum, the government denounces to the citizens that the Civic Opposition - in cooperation with the names of business interests of Piraeus and Thessaloniki - carries out a predetermined apostasy plan, attempting to buy or even blackmail MPs. Three years after that referendum that many believed would change the image, the reality of the Greek people. Three years later, instead of the political system, he has found a way to defend the interests of the Greek people, rather than solve his problems, instead of supporting him, instead of standing up to the situation, instead of doing what he has to do, he continues to hurt our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to return to normality is not a simple need but a matter of life and death now for our country and our people. Our first obligation in here is to the Greek people. Our most important responsibility is to support the functioning of the institutions of democracy and strengthen justice so that it is effective in its work. What we have to do in here is stop the Greeks from fleeing and abstaining from any democratic processes, from these democratic processes that will change their future. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed to fulfil these obligations. The government is talking about normality, but today we are legislating here under the urgency procedure. The Opposition every time it considers it accepts an inappropriate attack, it talks about the dismantling of the rule of law in Greece. On the other hand, the Government speaks of a net exit from the memoranda, but at the same time, it legislates through ministerial decisions. Four of the current bill, which also runs within a few minutes of the better described by the fellow lawyers in this Chamber, is what I could describe. Opposition on the other hand fails to answer the simplest question - which we have been asking for a long time as the Central Association - which of the three hundred memorandum laws would have changed if they were in the government today, who would have been abolished by those who have been voted in this Chamber since twenty-five MPs in August 2015 handed over the country's national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, how much do you feel about us abstaining from normality, how far from the concept - which we are used to now say about social issues and our national issues - of the pillar of stability? Do you think that we're a pillar of stability for Greek citizens? You cannot see this distance when three years from that referendum date the word you use is the word apostasy. In discussing today's bill, it turns out that both the Government and the Civilian Opposition fail to address the individual challenges presented. The government with today's bill, literally, is trying to share money, money on the islands, but money that its Memorandum obligations forced it to cut, as was the reduced VAT on the islands. That's what she does. It tries to fill the big gap created by this Memorandum, a red line, another red line of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence that they were unable to keep. And while she does this in her way, she feels at the same time and has to try to convince the islanders that this decision has nothing to do with the increase in VAT and she will claim, she will continue to claim the reintroduction of the previous favourable regime. But it makes sense for the citizens to be misled, because other assurances have been made in the past, too many assurances and you, ladies and gentlemen, have not been able to respect what you were saying in the election. How many of what you were saying in the election, how much of it as reassurances that have been heard in this Chamber could you keep? I would say to you a simple example, as I am at the moment, on the issue of the extrajudicial compromise, which you were telling us would include four hundred thousand businesses. A bill failed - we discussed it the other day in this Chamber - with too many vulnerabilities. It did not help the Greek people at all, it did not help entrepreneurship at all. How many commitments has the Greek Government made? We are therefore legislating under urgent procedure through ministerial decisions, to try to share some money. But you also share this money with pilots. You're saying we'll give it to pilots to see if the system works, what are the vulnerabilities of the system, if it wants to improve, if the economic reality can stand, I would say it, and if the hard memorial surveillance allows us. On the other hand, the Civic Opposition and the parties that have ruled this place continue to deny us what they could do better and given that they have a share of responsibility for the situation in which the country is today - no matter how large or small it is, each one considers this particular share of responsibility - is finally incapable of protecting the Greek from what is happening to him, now, at the moment we are talking about. This is what you do not understand, nor do you, that Greeks expect and demand answers from the political system about what is going on not tomorrow, but what is going on now, what is going on today, what can change not once under conditions but tomorrow morning and by concise procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, or you must confess to the Greeks that you do not intend to do something that would significantly change their quality of life within a short period of time, or you should realise that you are out of the question and therefore the Greeks do not care what you say. You lead them to apathy, abstention, abstention, distance, real, that is, enemies of democracy. The Union of Centres, ladies and gentlemen, has not voted for memoranda. We have earned the right to be in this Chamber with truths, hard truths not lies, not promises. This way we will follow, because we continue to have contact with the citizens and reality. That is why we consider it more important than giving our vote on today's bill to be excellent, to vote against it, in order to highlight the most vigorous way that democracy offers us that, when we cut the maximum and try to give the minimum, this is not our job in this House. The government must stop legislating in the urgency process and by providing the ministers with overpower for the purposes of communication management of problems. We want you to tell us whether we are in a pre-election period or if we are not in a pre-election period. And the opposition must finally, from the point of view of starting to propose, start looking at how it can help this place, how it can help to improve things in this place tomorrow morning and not when it becomes government. I would like to say a few words in the time left for the amendments. For the amendment of a general number 1626, the Centro Association will vote 'no' because it gives the two Ministers the power to determine the composition of the board of directors. There is no democratic legitimacy by giving the ministers a white check, they may place people of their choice in this company. With regard to Amendment No 1628, the Union of Centres will vote'residents'. We understand the needs of staff, but we believe that this evil cannot continue indefinitely with the emblematic solutions. At some point, one class should be entered into the recruitments, made in accordance with the AACC procedure. We therefore vote 'at present' precisely because we want to stress that we insist on the principle of legality as regards recruitment. In Amendment No 1629, the Union of Centres will vote'represents'. He could, if necessary, vote 'yes' if the two paragraphs which constitute two different articles were broken. As far as Amendment No 1630 is concerned, the Central Association will vote 'yes', because we agree with the incompatibility with the accounts of the beneficiaries of these services, as they must have economic viability for the execution of these services, which are a relief for visitors and residents of the feral regions. I should like to end by ending with Amendment No 1631, where the Union of Centres will vote'residents'. This is a regulation that makes suspicions of a photographic provision and possible placement of people of the government's likeness. To sum up, I would like to say that the Centro Association will vote 'no' in the bill. He will, of course, vote for some articles, just as it will follow in the process of voting on the articles. It will vote 'no' on the whole and on the amendments, as I have put it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill apart from Transport Equivalent and the establishment of the Academy of Merchant Navy, in my opinion, makes the debate on islands crucial. The truth is that despite the fact that we are the country with most inhabited islands in the European Union, we have never actually claimed and never achieved anything about island policy. So, in my opinion, it is impressive how the Qualified Opposition scams the bill, which directly concerns the relief of islanders. Mrs Bakoyannis, in an incredible position in the committees, has repudiated the bill, noting it nor much more than a'structural'. "Take it back," he said the district manager of the island region adjacent to the New Democracy. "Take crumbs with the transport equivalent, get much more VAT on the islands," said the rapporteur of the New Democracy. He explained his attitude just before me, the representative of the Centro Association: "We cut off the maximum, we give the minimum. A miserable debate without underestimating the economic problems that our islanders have, a miserable debate that has nothing to do with reality." And the reality, in my opinion, is that, in fact, in a global and European context, we need an integrated strategic planning to strengthen the development of the island regions. In this direction, and on this subject I would like to put forward a few proposals. Firstly, it is the institutional safeguard of the island clause in the European Union. We have, as a country, to guarantee the islands' status, as already since Greece joined the European Economic Community at the time, no special provision has been made for island regions, as has been the case with other Member States of the European Union. In the context of actions within the European Union that have as their main objective the economic, social or now, and the European Union's territorial cohesion with funding and aid through the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund, the Community Initiatives, I think we have an interest in pursuing the planning and financing of specific measures for island regions only and possibly the establishment of a Special Fund for Island Development. A second element, in my opinion, which we must insist on at European Union level, is the networking of the large islands of the Mediterranean, whether these are separate states - I am referring to Cyprus and Malta - whether they are states parts of the world and I am referring to Crete for Greece, Sardinia and Sicily. I believe that our country must go ahead with such a networking of the large islands of the Mediterranean and thus play a key role in a common European island policy. For this networking, all productive and creative forces of island regions, professional groups, wine makers networks, rural tourism networks, women's cooperative networks, the collectives of creative economy should be enabled. This networking seems to me to put political pressure on even the creation of a special fund for the development of the islands, equivalent to the Fisheries and Maritime Fund. In this context, we also need to see our policy on the European network of coastal and island regions CRPM. In this context, it is also important to contribute to cross-regional, interregional and transnational cooperation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to make a comment on Crete and its role in the Mediterranean. I'll need your tolerance for a few seconds, Mr. President. Apart from what I have said, Crete as one of the large islands of the Mediterranean, as a lever of pressure from our country for measures - beyond declarations - on islands, it is an opportunity to enter the campus, from its place - with tourism as an additional element in its favour - to enter the castle as an area of safe, peaceful and quality power of the Mediterranean, to enter the centre of regional and insular development. We need to use it as a whole for our intervention in the European Union's island policy. Secondly, Mr Minister, I have - and I am closing with this - a question mark: does Cretan citizens not use ferry transport? Are the Cretan companies for the transport of their raw materials or products to mainland Greece not using ferry transport? Honestly, I answer my question why it is excluded. Obviously I understand the need to strengthen the smaller or smaller islands or islands with less populations, but I think that in our long-term planning they should be all the islands, all the inhabitants of the islands. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the upgrading of the concept of islands with geographical, cultural and economic dimensions is an element of the country's identity, which the new development model must take into account and, in my opinion, will take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Mr Metarakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are wearing a tie or not, whether we are in or out of the memoranda, or you think that you have come out, the truth about the islanders is one: on 1 July you are abolishing, on your own sole responsibility, the island VAT and on the last islands of the north-eastern Aegean. You started it in 2015 with the "superior" negotiation of Tsipras - Varoufakis. Completed in 2018 with the signatures Tsipras and Kammenos. The abolition of insular VAT is a commitment that you have brought to the end. You got tied up to the lenders and you did it. Do you think there were no pressures on the previous government? When we were in the government with Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Brutsi, Members of Parliament, was we not under pressure? But then, in practice, there were red lines. We as a New Democracy have often tried to give Parliament the opportunity to correct this mistake. We tabled four amendments: in November, December, last April, in the bill on immigration, and now in today's bill. I call on the government at this very moment to accept it. I have heard some colleagues - and let me have a little parentheses - talk about the need for self-criticism. We will not accept such comments from a government which, firstly, returned to us in the recession, had to take unnecessarily measures, signed the third and fourth memorandum, which today leads to the abolition of the insular VAT. Today you come and say that the transport equivalent is something different from VAT. Of course, it is not by chance that you are voting on it today. You are trying for communication reasons to tell the islanders that yes, you are abolishing VAT, but you are giving something equivalent. In practice, however, in the amounts, procedures and scope, it is only not equivalent. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I ask you directly: Do you have an integrated proposal for our islands? We see you don't. And I read in the explanatory statement that "our islands form an area of the Greek area, characterised by low accessibility and attractiveness for housing or economic activity as a result of contaminated and fragmented political choices and monumental measures". Who brought these fragmentary and emblematic political choices? Who has now brought about the abolition of the most important measure to support island VAT? Who is responsible for the vast and uncontrolled accumulation of migrants and refugees on the islands, for which you still do not have an integrated plan to deal with? Who has been responsible for the sudden development perspective in recent years for the lake infrastructure? All of this has your signature, the signature SYRIZA - ANEL. The transport equivalent, as you make it, is unfortunately an emblematic policy, crumbs in relation to VAT without a financing plan for the coming years, but only for the coming months, without a substantial project for the development of the islands. It has a character of subsidisation, and indeed a fragmentary character. It is not part of an integrated proposal to support islands. Also, Minister, I consider it very important that a key competitive advantage which our islands, which is the tourist product, is not supported by the measure you propose. Instead, both hotel prices and catering package goes seven VAT points up. We become uncompetitive in relation to neighbouring countries, such as Turkey, for example. You have presented a paradoxical picture in committee. You said a four-member family in Psara would receive 958 euros from the transport equivalent. It will spend much more, of course, on these trips. But, to earn this amount, one must make twenty - seven Piraeus - Fish trips within a semester. Mr. Minister, Pssara - Chios is a free ticket. You know that. The old governments did it. Old governments that did not support islands, which had the island VAT, had a free ticket for the permanent residents to go from Psara to Chios. If they want to go twenty-four trips to Piraeus, welcome!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u62	The old governments didn't do Piraeus - Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u63	Of course, the abolition of insular VAT, Mr Minister, is a concrete measure. For every 100 euros spent by a resident of Fish, Chios, Oinousses, the Dodecanese will spend 7 euros more. You bring an upsurge of inflation, you are acquainting the lives of our locusts and you have no plan to support these islands. Of course we don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 27-6-2018: Criminal forensics concerning the former Minister of Health, Mr. Maki Voridis. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have learned among other things and why the main support policy for the islands is being abolished. Mr Igoumenides told us that he needs a European island policy. Therefore, according to its logic, the abolition of reduced VAT on islands is a conscious option, which will in future lead to the search for European policies. Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner for Finance of the European Commission, Mr Moscovisi, in reply to a question from our MEP, Mr Androullakis, said that the choice of abolishing the reduced VAT rate on the islands is a choice of the SYRIZA Government. You cannot come here any of my fellow Members - whether they are in government or elsewhere - and say about commitments from a third memorandum, second memorandum or anything else. It's only SYRIZA choice - ANEL. We have long tabled a proposal for a law to maintain the reduced rate of VAT on the five remaining islands in such a way as to preserve this policy, this idea, which has supported the islands since 1986, and then without delay, to discuss the ways in which we will be able to reintroduce this regulation as a whole as a compensation for the particular problems faced by the inhabitants of the islands, precisely because of islands. I want to make it clear, so that our fellow citizens are not made - the inhabitants of the mainland easily victims of populism, that insularity is a serious issue. The consequences of isolation from the discontinuation of communication are very serious. The effects are burdened with the lives of everyone and all the people who live on the islands as a whole. The islands are not only the fancy photographs and images of summer holiday advertisements. The islands are also the difficult conditions that people live during winter and not just. It is also the difficult conditions under which small and medium-sized enterprises operate. In this sense, therefore, it is a country's obligation - and that is why it has been included in Article 101 of the Constitution - to take care to compensate for these negative consequences. But here, instead of further care, there was the steak of the policy applied on the islands at the reduced rate of VAT, not only for economic, development and social reasons, but also for national reasons. I repeat that we have tabled a proposal. We are asked to come to the House immediately and they tell us that the co-legislative ministries refuse to come to the debate. This is the explanation given to us by the services of this House and the Bureau itself when we ask why this proposal is not coming. They refuse the co-legislative ministries to come to Parliament to discuss the proposal for a law. This is democracy. Come and turn it down! But come on, gentlemen! I shall now refer to the bill and the transport equivalent. The transport equivalent, as our rapporteur very well analysed, is a good idea, a mature proposal, but it comes with a bad to moderate legislation. The government claims that it does not compensate for the abolition of VAT and we do need to see it independently of this as an additional measure to deal with the islands. Sadly, however, it combines it. The urgency, that is to say, to discuss with the urgency procedure... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Five minutes, Mr. President? Has it been decided?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u66	For everyone, Mr. Kegeroglu, no exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u67	I did not see it, but at least the first speakers from the parties had to have a little more time. It must indeed be independent, but unfortunately it has combined it. It's urgent, he says, why the VAT is being abolished. That's how he whispered. I think we should cut it off and look at it with a different eye. Of course, it needed more comprehensive work. But, and so on, let's experiment the ministry to see, draw conclusions with the pilot program and see how it's going to be implemented. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] But I have some basic remarks to make. Look, gentlemen, you're creating a new mechanism in the Ministry of Shipping to do the work done by HICP with the CRL - and other programs - which may have made it to you without any cost and without even creating another programme. ID's got the know-how right now to do this whole program. What is the point of creating a new mechanism? Secondly, because you separate the inhabitants of the islands financially and say that not all residents will benefit from VAT, but only economic patients, I would like to ask you something. At the moment, the Ministry of Labour is aware of the islands and has registered all people who receive social solidarity allowance on the basis of income criteria. From where and yet to the weak man who receives a social solidarity allowance, you tell him "go pay the tickets and then come and get the discount"? No, gentlemen! Once he's the beneficiary of the CRL, he should be the beneficiary of the discount and you should go find them with the companies. What you are doing is unacceptable. It is contrary to the philosophy of supporting weak people, as we have introduced it since 2012 with the guaranteed social income. These are services provided to beneficiaries of guaranteed social income. I don't think you're doing right. You're creating a new bureaucracy for no reason. You can today modify that the beneficiaries of the CRL directly have a discount from the transport companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u68	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u69	I'm hanging up. Thank you, Mr President. I didn't know about the five-minute, and I wasn't prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u70	After we had a whole fuss at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u71	I wasn't involved in the fuss this time. I usually share. The Deputy Minister and the Minister said that the islands of Lefkada, Evia and Crete are excluded. Listen. Under the European definition of '94' and on the basis of the amendments up to 2016, they are not considered, within the meaning of economic, social and development, to be islands which are permanently connected. Evia, therefore, and Lefkada, which have a permanent, stable connection with the mainland, are not islands, within the meaning of the European Union, to strengthen them by means of specific measures. You put this as a veiler to cover the exclusion of Crete. No, gentlemen, you are not saying that the transport equivalent is for the small islands, not up to three thousand per cent, not up to five thousand or nothing. You say it's for the islands. So there is no exception here. It is unacceptable that you exclude Crete, which has the same charge on transport costs as any other island and, moreover, has too many relations with the other islands. So we have a double charge for islanders from the transport costs borne by those products, passengers and transport are going through Crete. I would therefore ask that you do not repeat this exemption for Crete because it is a political exception. It is neither legal nor is it based on any other criteria you have set in the bill. Set them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Kegeroglu, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u73	So I explicitly ask for Crete to be included in it. After all, it would be a good thing to have from the pilot application what exactly there are and what exactly the cost is for passenger transport, but also for transport of products to and from Crete. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the "Platos" (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like to ask a question. Why did you put five minutes of speaking time while in all the bills we have seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u76	Because the bill on the initiative and with a majority of the government MPs in the Conference of Presidents is being discussed as a matter of urgency. In the emergency, under the Rules of Procedure, it's five minutes. So don't complain to us for not voting on the urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u77	We can go to the seven-minute. We're not prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u78	In any case, from what I realized, Mr. Bored showed a tolerance. I am also going to show a tolerance, because there are not too many colleagues in this House. You're twenty-four MPs written, so we're fine. But, typically, when the Presidents' Conference is voting for a bill as an emergency, the speaker's speaking time is five minutes. That's it. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin the bill, I think that Mandra should also enter the benefits of the transport equivalent, since you have made it an island that is constantly flooding. The situation is tragic. Your senator does nothing at all. She is constantly exposed to her works and words. Greece, as an island country with thousands of islands enclosing its mainland, sounds like something very beautiful and very nice. However, the reality is somewhat different, because, apart from a few - measured fingers on the hands - islands which have economic prosperity for most months of the year from tourism, but also from other things, the vast majority of the islands of our country, thousands, have to do with people who, unfortunately, are increasingly frustrating, with many difficulties and adversities, especially during the winter months. Hence the notion of islandity and the benefits of which the Aegean islands and Ionian islands should receive, our Greek islands. Here I agree with the previous Member. Why is Crete excluded from the benefits of the transport equivalent? The island is also the island, which offers a great deal to the Greek economy. That is why it should not be excluded. Insularity should be the first on the agenda of each Greek government, along with the cities and villages of the border and in general the countryside, because that way alone we will be able to maintain and intact our territorial integrity by those who impose, be they neighbouring states, either the invasion of illegal immigrants, or the invasion of illegal immigrants. Instead, what do we see? In particular, in the years of the memorials, a large number of measures should be taken, making life and living on the islands of Greece a year and a year more difficult, culminating in the reduction, abolition of reduced VAT on the islands. I guess that's why you're doing this, so you can get ash in the eyes of the world with the transport equivalent. The transport equivalent is a very good energy, which would have a very great value if it were not in a time when you would not increase VAT, but would be equitable with the VAT of mainland Greece. This increase in VAT took place jointly with the New Democracy. Now, if it were five above, five below, or more than three memoranda, it was clear that VAT will be increased, that leaves us indifferently in the sense that we have not voted for any memorandum and will never vote, unlike you now, where with four memoranda you have voted on - another two, others together - you have made the lives of citizens on the islands particularly difficult. It's not fair that you're setting up criteria for the equivalent of transport. Why criteria? What difference does it make? And what are these criteria? It is like the extrajudicial compromise we were discussing yesterday, the other day, when they applied for tens of thousands, finally only twenty-three benefited, because the criteria were such that they effectively rejected everyone and everything. We see in the last few years in the islands closing services, leaving services, relocating services and being forced by one island, especially in the Cyclades and the Dodecanese, going to another to process something that would be much easier if it were not an island and the country was continental. We see difficulties that no one can imagine. We see fuel on the islands being extremely expensive, which, now, with the so-called abolition of duty-free on fuel, means that travel by means of tax on shipping fuel will be further imposed. We see the reductions in pension wages, which have also affected islanders, of course. We see a social dividend that you provide, which when given once a year is a crumb. You've got them ten, and you give them one, and you think that's how you satisfy who they take it. We are constantly seeing new taxes. We also see the flooding of illegal immigrants, who have flooded in particular the islands of the north-eastern Aegean, with what huge problems they have now created in societies there. And by the way, I see illegal immigrants taking the transport equivalent because they will meet the conditions and criteria, your criteria, and in the end - as is done elsewhere - the Greek citizens will not meet them. For the vast majority of islanders it is a heroic case. We also see in the bill a number of issues relating to maritime education, a very important chapter. It is very positive that they are reopening old schools or perhaps opening up others. This will certainly benefit local communities. Of course, there is one question here: What about the Academy of Merchant Naval Macedonia, which is in Thessaloniki, with your wishes, that is to say whether it will remain the Academy of Commercial Naval Macedonia or whether it will also have to change its name, according to your checks, if you prevent, because you probably do not have time. In conclusion, it should be possible in the context of islands - and some thoughts have been made in the past, but it has never been done - that there should be a subsidy. And there are volunteers to go there and some without a subsidy to reside rock islands and small islands and help entrepreneurship in any way for national security reasons. Insularity was, is and will be the A and O for our homeland and unfortunately, with your actions and your memorials and everything that you remove you have put it back a lot in relation to other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u80	Two other colleagues will speak, Mrs Theopevtou and Mrs Megalo-Economics, and then we will join the Parliamentary representatives. Mr Amyras has asked for the floor as a parliament, who will speak after Mrs Megalonikou. As we always do, three - four colleagues will speak, and then one parliamentarian, in turn who is asking for the floor. Come on, Mrs Theophevette, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen, our country extends to land and sea space at around 60% -40%. So we have a large part of the country that consists of the sea and within it there are three thousand islands, which are inhabited by more than a hundred. Indeed, as previous colleagues have said, this phenomenon is unique for Europe. However, what had happened in previous years on this issue of islands was fragmented. While our islands are contributing to the country's GDP, we have already started the necessary arrangements to recognise this disadvantage in islands. For all of us, the permanent inhabitants of the islands, each activity is linked to movements or even nights in the center of our region or on land. For health, services, courts, the purchase or sale of products, we have to move by boat. Also, this difficulty of moving is deterring to come to the island either employees for the services or teachers and teachers for the service of our schools or doctors, nurses and other staff for our hospitals. This fact of islandity also works inhibiting the primary factor, since in the islands we generally have small lots. So this disadvantage is already recognised by the Constitution of the country under Article 101 and by the Treaty of the European Union in Article 174 for territorial cohesion, that is to say, for development in a balanced manner between those regions which are disadvantaged and by Article 32 of Law 4150, that is to say, that every legislature should consider the impact it has on our islands. Our government has recognised this powerful role that the islands should play in the development of the country. The Ministry of Island Policy has been created and the necessary arrangements have been put in place to ensure that solid bases for the conduct of island policy, i.e. recognition of this disadvantage, are introduced in order to move forward in specific areas. As we all understand, this requires coordination mainly among all the ministries, as has been the case with the Ministry of Health, in order to provide incentives for the maintenance of the health units on the islands, with the Ministry of National Defence, for doctors to perform their duties on our islands, as well as with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, i.e. islands to be appointed as a priority. So today we are talking about the equivalent, a request which has been being discussed for decades on our islands, that is to say, it can go back to the passenger or to the one who moves the goods, the difference that the maritime transport costs in relation to that in the land area. That's a big incision. It is the basis, it is the foundation for this measure to be put into effect. Of course, it makes sense to pilot in the second half of 2018 and in all our islands from 1-1-2019 and through an electronic platform to return this fee. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that, as provided for by the law in Article 7, either the passenger pays the reduced costs on the ground or through a bank account that is inappropriate and does not require tax information. I would also like to stress for us, the people of the Ionian Islands, that, until beforehand, the measures on island were not concerned with the Ionian islands. We recognize the specificities of the Aegean islands, but nothing has ever been done about the Ionian islands, nor about the reduced VAT rate, nor about the availability of those that had been the case by previous governments. This is the first time that this right has been recognised on our Ionian islands, and that is why it is very welcome, because of course our islands have their own specialities, such as the Aegean islands and this measure contributes to their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Theopevettus. Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is the personalisation of the speech that we - or even most of us - wanted to become MPs of the Greek Parliament. What do I mean by that? We wanted to offer the necessary support and assistance to our fellow citizens. Thus, the initiative of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy created a transport equivalent for the inhabitants of the islands of the Aegean. This proves the practical support of the government to the islanders, the people who have chosen to live permanently and work on one of the many and wonderful islands of our country. To date the previous governments have had little - very forgotten the inhabitants of the islands. They only remembered them when the elections approached to give them a greeting. Although many of these islanders live in remote remote Aegean islands, they are the true guardians of our sea borders. I know very well what it is for someone to live on an island, because the origin of my husband - which I now see after forty-six years and my origin - is from the island of Kythera, the island that is a beautiful and blessed place in the summer, one of the earthly paradises. But in the winter that everything is devastated is really difficult to live there permanently. That's why I've always admired islanders for their devotion and love at the place they've been born, regardless of the conditions they've been experiencing. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in general terms, I would like to raise a matter for you. Now you are cut off for the VAT of the major islands, the Dodecanese, Kos, Rhodes, etc. Why then, ladies and gentlemen of Piraeus, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, Kytheras with three thousand inhabitants and Antikytheras with only a hundred inhabitants, have always had VAT on a continental area while they belong to the Ionian Islands? These people had never lifted their heads to resist? You Piraeus I MPs, who belonged to Kythera, could not say 'no, also have reduced VAT as a remote island'? Do you know where he is? In the middle of the sea, between the Peloponnese and Crete, as are the Antikytheras who have a hundred inhabitants and now go for twenty. You never thought of reducing VAT on these people. Now you're cut off for the big islands, Rhodes, Kos, who have an eight-month tourist season.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u84	Kos is big, huge!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u85	Yes, sir. At Cythera, who's been a month and a half, you never thought about how these people were going through. When you were a government, the New Democracy and the PASOK, the Kythiras and the Antikytheras you had forgotten. It didn't help you to cut them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u86	They don't have a transport balance for Kythera.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u87	I know, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u88	They'll have 1-1-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u89	They'll be after 1-1-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u90	Mrs. Big Economics, don't have a dialogue, because then you'll say you don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u91	These people are coming to support today, not with a temporary measure and a patch, or to provide them with a provision that may be possible tomorrow to get it back, but with a substantial move, permanently, launched on some islands and extended horizontally to three years throughout the Aegean Sea. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that we are responsible for and serious strategic policy designed for the future. In this way, the inhabitants of the islands and those who have business on the islands will be able to move their own goods and goods at the cost of land transport. This is an extremely original idea in the conception and execution that will give the islands a huge impetus. In fact, given that the islands of the northern Aegean have been financially depressed by the influx of refugees in recent years, I believe that this today's legislative initiative will be an important aid to the islands' businesses. I therefore think it goes without saying that opposition should vote in favour of today's bill. Unfortunately, however, the opposite is true. Anti-Politicism raises objections here and, indeed, the Qualified Opposition disagrees with the philosophy of the bill. But we are not talking about a philosophical debate, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about an absolutely practical and not philosophical or theoretical assistance to islanders. And I ask you: What is New Democracy's responsible practice? I give the answer myself. To object indiscriminately to all the bills, to all that Greece has achieved on the inside and abroad. In governmental success in the issue of debt you asked for a debate, in a desperate attempt to make a stand out just for voting reasons. In other words, you once again put your party profit against the interests of homeland. Unfortunately, I am not surprised at this choice. Desperate makes moves vexed. And as the popular word says, "the choked by his hair is caught." However, as much as I can understand the pressure of Officer Response, I do not understand how you could justify to the world, to your voters and to all Greeks that you do not support today's bill, which is the first and very important step towards the financial support of the islands of the Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, you must finally behave according to the times and situations, show the responsibility our country needs in difficult times. The Aegean islands need our support, and today's bill is an excellent attempt to completely change the cost of transport to the islands. Whatever questions, objections or doubts one cannot recognise that it is an excellent bill to be voted on by all of us. It is another tangible proof that the government's work continues with decisive steps in restoring the economic and social equilibrium of our country. Every day I see that we come closer to the goal, bringing our homeland to the situation that she deserved, what she always deserved, many decades ago. For you, ladies and gentlemen, with the destruction of public money, the immunity and the involvement for which, of course, you are only responsible for the bankruptcy of our country, today from the chairs of counterpopulation, only make a sterile criticism for impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u92	Mr Amyras has the floor as a Parliamentary representative from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, shall begin with my favourite Kythera. In fact, it brings me salt from the kythera chain. A shocking, blessed place! You accused PASOK and New Democracy of leaving Kythera in their luck. Let me remind you that last year, throughout the summer season, the Kytheras were uncovered by a ferry connection from Piraeus. He didn't go on a boat from Piraeus to Kythera all summer. Let's consider the misfortune of suffering a fire that burned twenty-seven thousand acres. Yesterday we had the Mayor of Kythera Mr. Charhalakis at the Committee on the Environment and we discussed the regeneration of the island. The island is doing great. It's green again. We all go to Cythera this year. There will be hopeful boat this year. There is, so far. Last year, though, if you wanted to go on a trip to Kythera, you should either go alone or have a car and go all the way to Naples and go over there across the small boat. From Piraeus were excluded Kytheras during the summer season. So, it's a good thing transport equivalent, but in our minds this comes in this way. Why did you abolish VAT reduction?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u94	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u95	I'm not addressing you, Mr. Big housekeeper. I'm addressing the government. The question therefore relates to the misrepresentative speech of many Government ministers and Mr Tsipras himself, which says 'we are taking you out of the memoranda on 20 August'. And I ask: why did you put us in memoirs? Two Memorials of Tsipras - Burnt. A plus a memorandum. So we can now discuss the introduction of the transport equivalent, but this is done in the middle of government celebrations. Fiesta in the Prespecies for Skopje, ties in Zappeion for the Eurogroup, feasts in ministries for the end of the memoranda, except that this euphoria climate is narrowly limited to the limits of Maximus, and even under the strict protection of police forces. Have you, ladies and gentlemen, been outside the Herod of Attica? Have you seen the kings of Vassilis Sophia and Herod Attica, who are closing access to the Maximus Mansion? You've seen the crabs. It's like tetris the game. One way, the other and the other one a platoon of the MATs. Where are those revolutionaries? "Open the streets, be close to the people," said Mr. Tsipras and blamed the previous ones when they closed Herod Attica. Now, the Herod Attica, the road that passes in front of the Prime Minister's Office, is permanently closed with police cubes - "tetris". The vast majority of Greek citizens, as it appears from polls that came out in the last few days, are contrary to the Ambassadors' agreement. It considers concessions of language and ethnicity to be harmful to national interests to its neighbours. The markets reacted, as if there had been no deal on the debt, the stock market is slowing down, and interest rates to ten years of bonds are over 4%. The taxpayers will be working this year for eight more weeks to pay taxes and contributions, taking as their return the worst health and education services between the OSCE countries, as is apparent from a recent study by the Centre for Liberal Studies. Even within the government behind the festivals, however, a careful observer sees the climate of decay. So why does the government triumph and at the same time the citizens perceive triumphs as debacles? The answer is very simple: the truth is stronger than propaganda. Unfortunately, SYRIZA and ANEL made promises, made promises to the citizens and violated them all, with the sole criterion of remaining in power. The examples are many. How many times had the co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, swore before God and people, that any government would have given the neighbors the name "Macedonia"? How many times did Mr. Kammenos not say "I will drop the government if the Church asks me"? In addition, Mr Kammenos recently said that 'if the agreement on the scaffolding in the House comes, I will vote against it and so the government will fall'. So these latex scenarios - about destabilising the government from suspicious circles, etc. It's all air cut. The Kammenus has said eight hundred times he will throw the government away. Of course, he doesn't, because love for the chair goes up to infinity. I would also remind you how many times the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, has said that "the prolongation of the loans is a lifesaving hole and that he is simply extending the rope to be hanged by the lenders". That is what Mr Tsipras said about the debt, and now they are celebrating a ten-year prolongation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u96	Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u97	None of what you said you did. I am pleased, Mr SYRIZA, that you have given me the title for what you have done. Nothing! Also, how many times did Mr Chakalotos, my dear colleague, not say he would resign if the tax were reduced below EUR 9,000? Finally, he signed his cut to 5,600 euros. How many times in the past did Mr Katrugalos assure pensioners that pensions will not be reduced, while from December they will see reduced pensions of up to 18%? And not only that, I would remind you, Mr Katrugalos said: 'From 1-12019 pensions will be increased.' And we said to him, "How can that be done? Since your law includes cutbacks’. He said: 'We will increase, because the economy will go well, we will increase GDP and we will increase'. Beads and mirrors for natives. So that's the government's problem. He celebrates what he had denounced and, of course, cannot be believed by the citizens. Unfortunately, the Memorandums do not end, when pension cuts occur, tax increases through the tax reduction - they are in front of us - and the commitments for high surpluses - the 'broken', according to SYRIZA, will be in force by 2060. How, however, could debt be solved when we have lost ten growth points since 2015 in relation to the other Eurozone countries? Ten development units we've lost, my dear colleague! That's nothing, isn't it? He's a boulder. The government has therefore loaded new loans through the third and fourth Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos: the issue of the name of FYROM has not only been resolved but has, on the contrary, burdened the climate in Greece. Everyone recognises - and I myself first of all - that this issue needs to be resolved, but this agreement contains provisions, which I fear will create conflicts in the future. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to tell the truth and not communication terrestrials. The Greek citizens have been exhausted by overtaxation. They see the future pessimisticly and the more the government represents the success, the more it goes away from society. That, you will tell me, perhaps to a certain extent is good, because the sooner we finish with this SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the better for the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u98	I too, Mr Amyras, for your very brief but essential speech. The next four colleagues to prepare for this are: Mr Antonis Balomeni, Mr Nikolaos Syrmaleneos, Mrs Anastasia Gara and Mrs Fotini Vakis. Here, Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, both the time and the structure of this bill are dictated - I think this is clear - by two needs. One is to apply, in principle, pilot projects in order to test any ways of implementing and correct any gaps which may exist, to set up these mechanisms, and during the six-month period, I think it is perfectly logical. And the second need, to which this bill obeys, is of course the country's budgetary situation. It is very specific and very important that, in the context of budgetary closeness - which we all know, the government has found a way, found money, brought forward this constitution, ultimately, which has an obligation to defend equality in its general expression, the equality of the islands' inhabitants vis-à-vis the inhabitants of the mainland. The New Democracy claims, rather awkwardly, that we would like - it says - a project in general, to convince us that you are scheduled for the development of the islands and lets it be understood that it might be there that it could agree. It is difficult, of course, but I would like to remind her that, at least for the Aegean, three regional conferences have been held, extremely productive. If I'm not mistaken, the two have not appeared at all or tried to sabotage the New Democracy. There were specific roads, specific methods, and concrete proposals were made for the definitive development of the islands of Archipelagos. The stated purpose, which I think we should focus on, is that, in addition to tourism development, people will be favoured mainly by dwelling on people who have so far hesitated, for reasons of cost, to dwell on the islands, with what this may mean for population growth and longevity and the fixing of structures for society and national structures there. Of course, economic activity, particularly small and very small enterprises, will benefit. This is the stated purpose of the bill and I think it is, at least in its start, very importantly and with thought, one would say. All these years, this obligation has been an institutional obligation for those who have ruled. As has been pointed out several times, there is Article 106 of the Constitution, which does not merely establish a possibility or justify a retrospective treatment of the inhabitants of the islands, but lays down - I repeat - the institutional obligation, which has been ignored, completely. And when did he get missing? At the time of prosperation. And it is very important that the Greeks should know that, when there was an excess and when these scary wastes, which we see now and face them, as the cancer of the past, no one thought of giving an excess of the surplus, which was then - even the artificial surplus - for the implementation of this constitutional check. I think, therefore, that an important step is taking today - we must stress this - and that all the denies and oppositions have only a micro-participatory, pre-formative character which, unfortunately, does not show - I am not saying the word serious - a sense of responsibility. I would now like, in the very short time, to place myself on what has been heard about the enlargement issue, and I am referring to Crete. The wording, adopted in the explanatory statement, is that Crete is excluded by size. I do not think that is right. I'll try to argue. The most correct thing would be - and we would accept it in any case - that it is excluded because of costs. Since the explanatory statement refers to the present situation, the costs would indeed be perhaps unbearable or difficult to deal with. What matters to say is that, precisely because of its size, Crete has specificities and that consist of distances within the island. This is something that needs to be taken into account since the explanatory statement also makes it as a criterion of support for island regions to cover the cost of transport time. Because it is not only the port transfer to mainland Greece, it is also the transport from one point to another of Crete. For example, with regard to Ierapetra or our region of Kundoura in Paleochora, it takes at least one and a half hours - the infrastructure is not yet so suitable - to transport the product to the port. This is a cost both in time and in money. Of course, from what I read in the Scientific Committee's report, only if the products are not produced elsewhere cannot be supported and subsidised and supported. Here I tell you that, especially the vegetable products of Crete are of course competitive and are currently losing competition because of these distances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I do not propose this directly, and I would like to separate myself from those who have said that we can implement it at the moment because of the financial possibilities - but I say this as a perspective, precisely to take account of the time factor and, of course, to hope - and I believe that we will succeed - in the best days, where this aspect of need will also be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u100	Thank you too, Mr. Balomannakis. Mr Nikolaos Syrizas, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in committee today, it is a great day for the islands. And it's a big day for the islands, because it was a request for decades. And I should like to remind you, like other colleagues, that in plenary, the late Tasos Aliferis, mayor of Tilos, was the first instigator for the equivalent of transport, something which is beginning to happen in the vote on this bill. Some colleagues from other opposition parties said that it is an incomplete step and, therefore, it will not be possible, it is unclear, vague and so on. They are prophecies in sins. With regard to the posting of Officer Opposition, I have to say once again - in mild terms - that it is unexplainable and, in fact, outrageous. It will, of course, be judged by the islanders. I said again that in the name of falling the New Democracy government has subjugated everything and has become, from a historic party, a protest group of 'not all'. And I say it on account of knowledge. Unfortunately, Mr Carras also said'substantiated time'. I hope that, at the end of the day, he will vote for it, because I believe he will understand that islanders will see significant benefits after a year of pilot implementation. Pilot implementation is an implementation which should, in principle, be carried out on forty-nine or fifty islands, because the real facts will come from the experience of piloting. And because it is not a simple problem, which you can apply very easily overnight and there are many technical issues that need to be solved, I think that there has been an important preparation from the Ministry and with conferences and the information system, which will work. I therefore think that, after a year, the major benefits to islanders will have been shown by the application of the transport equivalent. Of course, we want the transport equivalent to be completed, not only for permanent residents - who are of course the first to benefit and who do well to benefit from the permanent inhabitants and businesses of the islands - but we want it to be extended to visitors to tourists and to all islands and to Crete, as colleagues have said. The Cretan Members are right, but it is clear that the budget - so I understand it - is not up to Crete as well as 1-1-2019. We must be well, fight, complete the transport equivalent at all levels and to the people who want to go and come from the islands, but also to goods and fuel, which is a very important and complex issue about how it will eventually be solved - but it will be solved - and, of course, all the islands. So I do not understand the opposition parties - they will be judged, as I have said, by the islanders - neither the New Democracy nor the JRC, which, without any argument, tells us that the money will go to the shipowners. These are funny arguments when there is no collection procedure by ferry companies for more money through the transport equivalent procedure. So I think that arguments like VAT are highly hypocritical. There is also a connection between New Democracy and, in part, the Democratic Partnership with VAT. In fact, Mr Kegeroglu made a speech on VAT and not on transport equivalents. In any case, I tell you to read page 27 of the Cardouvelis mail, so that we can be realistic and know what we are talking about. It refers to a review of the reduced VAT rates on the islands - read it! - both English and English. It is Hardouvelis 27, which says that VAT rates will be reviewed in the island country. That was Hardouvel's mail. Do not come now, therefore, to say that SYRIZA has brought about and is responsible solely for increasing the reduced VAT rates. All these amendments are totally hypocritical, which you are bringing. And you know very well that we will be the first to fight effectively for a comprehensive European policy on the islands, including the incentive of reduced rates. However, I would also like to say that the transport equivalent, which we integrate into island policies, does not come from heaven alone. They have been, since the Prime Minister's visit and the announcement of island policies in Niseros two years ago, important steps have been taken both in education and in health and in development and in energy and in the environment and in spatial planning and in rural development. Go and read. This is not the time and I don't have the time to tell you in detail what we have voted on from this House for island Greece. Who really cares about island policies will be judged by islands and by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u102	We're moving on with Mrs. Anastasia Gara. Mrs. Bakis is in the Committee on Friendship with Tunisia. I won't erase it, but I won't give it up. Next, Mr Ursouzidis, Mr Brutsi - let him know - and Mr Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, can I have the floor for legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u104	Mrs. Gara, wait a minute. Mr. Undersecretary wants to present legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. That's enough. I'll say the most important ones. In Article 1. In the case of Article 1, the words 'their turnover' shall be replaced by 'the net amount of their turnover'. We have also discussed this in committee. Article 2. In Article 2(2), the last subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Management Authority of the project and the intermediate body shall be designated by a joint Ministerial Decision adopted in accordance with paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 11, in order not to be considered a different Ministerial Decision. Article 3. (a) in Article 3(1), (b)(1), (b) and (c) after the word ‘trainers’, the words ‘as well as the working training staff of the Academy of Merchant Navy (AEN)’ shall be added. In paragraph 2 of Article 3, the words ‘medium-sized enterprises’ shall be inserted after the words ‘or entities’ and after the words ‘in L.4308/2014’ shall be deleted. In essence, the words ‘the entities’ above shall be transferred. In Article 3(2), ‘their turnover’ is replaced by ‘the net amount of their turnover’ again. In Article 3(2), the words ‘in the municipalities’ shall be replaced by ‘on an island’. In Article 4. In the first paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law, the words ‘In a decision of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy’ shall be replaced by the words ‘by a joint decision of the Ministers for Economy and Development, Economic and Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, adopted in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 11’. In this way, as has been discussed in committee, all the ministerial decisions in Article 11 are being drawn up. (a) in Article 4, the words ‘the capital’ shall be replaced by ‘the port’. (b) in Article 4, the words ‘between each island and the mainland’ shall be replaced by the words ‘from the island to any destination and from any destination to the island’. Case bb is deleted. There's more law-making. I'm not going to bring it all up because it's just corrections. I give the basics: Article 6. Paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the draft law is replaced by the following: ‘The municipalities to which the measure applies shall designate an official as a reference person: Article 7. In the first subparagraph of Article 7(1), the word ‘whether’ and the words ‘whether by direct payment at the time of issue of the ticket, with a corresponding reduction in its price and a return to the ferry’ shall be deleted. The second option, that is, the return on the ferry company. In the last subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 7 after the words ‘or legal entity’, the words ‘which fall within the scope of this Law’ shall be added. In Article 10, Mr Karras, at the end of the Article two subparagraphs are added: ‘The pilot implementation of the Transport Equivalent measure shall expire on 31 December 2018. As from 1 January 2019, the measure shall be fully implemented for all islands of the territory of Crete, Evia and Lefkada.’ So I think all the sects you've put on leave. Article 11. At the end of Article 11, Mr Dannelly and Mr Carras, which you have both requested, paragraph 5 is added as follows: '5. The Joint Ministerial Decisions of the Committee of the Regions 1 to 3 are issued within one (1) month of the publication of this Law in the Official Journal of the Government. The Joint Ministerial Decision of the Commission. 4' for fuels, i.e. 'is issued within two (2) months of the publication of this Law in the Official Journal of the Government'. In Article 12(2), paragraph 2 is added as follows: The last paragraph of Article 4 of Law 2638/1998 is added as follows: ‘The positions of permanent educational staff in AEN Kalymnos amount to 12 (12)’. So the staff issue is also covered. In Article 17 at the end of paragraph 1, the words ‘regardless of the time of their registration in the above Schools’ shall be added. "To you, ma'am. 2 is replaced by the word ‘full’ with the word ‘retrospective’ and the words ‘in the previous paragraph’ with the words ‘from the Faculty of Officials of the Hellenic Coast Guard and the Faculty of Port Guards who, at the time of entry into force of the present, bear grades higher than the Chief of the Port Body - Greek Coast Guard and the Port Guard respectively. "At the end of the parl. The second subparagraph shall be added as follows: ‘The retroactive administrative restoration referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall come independently of the existence of empty organic positions and by way of derogation from Article 81/2012 (A' 139) and any other provisions’. There are other small legal interventions which, ladies and gentlemen, you will read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u106	You don't have to. And that's a lot you read. I would ask that they be taken over and distributed to all my colleagues. Thank you, Minister. Mrs Gara, after thanking you for your waiting, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we now have the power to discuss a framework bill, which actually touches the concept of islandity, a concept that is inextricably interwoven with Greece, its geographical structure and its characteristics, but at the same time a concept which, unfortunately, was absent from the policies of the previous governments, in the context of supporting and strengthening the inhabitants and entrepreneurs of our islands. For us, the proper use of islands is a development feature, but also a concept based on equality, but also on iso-politicalism. Our concern is to remove the disparities between islands and the rest of the inhabitants, to provide easier and more affordable access and to move citizens and goods, to connect with the Greek onshore and to the European area as part of European cohesion. It is also worth noting that European and state funds are already being used for the development of public structures, the integration of basic infrastructure, the energy segregation of the islands and the increase in the number of public officials on the islands. Our concern is also the formation of development incentives on the islands, as well as the support of islanders in all the manifestations of their public life, in order to inhabit and develop activities on the island where they want and insist on dwelling. We must admit that transport equivalent is an innovative framework, as it is designed and implemented for the first time, not only for passenger transport, but also for the transport of goods and fuel. This is the first time, therefore, that State aid of such size, horizontally, is granted to such a large number of enterprises in island Greece. This intervention is intended not only to balance and retain prices on the islands but also to create an incentive to set up new businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, this framework is called a transport equivalent because it harmonises the cost of transport by sea of passengers and goods with the cost of inland transport, for the same distance. Therefore, transport equivalent does not act as a counterbalance for something, as the Opposition claims. On the contrary. The transport equivalent is a permanent measure, horizontal and universal for islanders and businesses based in the islands. Besides, it was, it is, and it will be a constant request for decades from the islanders. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to the main points of the bill and to make it clear that there are no income criteria to become a beneficiary of the measure, provided that they maintain their tax base on the island concerned. Members of the family are given the opportunity to make use of all the tickets available according to their needs, as they determine them. Beneficiaries of the measure are also made of the Deputy Oriental Teachers, as well as of the auxiliary and rural doctors in the health and education structures of the islands. Also, the process of registering and receiving the unique number of islands is simple and not bureaucratic, as documentary or other documents are not required. Finally, the sums, both for residents and for businesses, are inconsistent and tax-free. I believe that these references respond to the objections of opposition, which speak of the existence of income criteria, which do not exist, for the sums of "fly" - in in introductory words the word - which we share with the islanders, for bureaucracy and vagueness of the measure. At this point, I would like to mention - and let me - the island of Samothrace, which I represent, because I believe that each one of us should refer to specific examples, with specific figures, so that the benefit of this measure can be understood. So Samothraki is a special and beautiful island - and from this Step I invite you to visit it, since it is summer and to get to know it closely - it is one of the forty nine islands where the transport equivalent will be piloted from the beginning of July. According to the studies and measurements made by the Ministry, in Samothraki of about three thousand inhabitants it is estimated that the amount corresponding to a four-member family, equivalent for every six months, is of the order of 526 euros. Therefore, around EUR 1.050 a year will be entered into the account of each four-member family, which makes use of the full amount of tickets available. Moreover, the benefit from transporting goods for Samothraki operations is estimated at around EUR 100,000 per year. I believe that these are not the sums "fly" for the local economy of an island. Mr Ministers, on the occasion of the establishment of the Kalymnos School - a very positive news - I would like to invite you to work more intensively on the planning of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis, as we have discussed in detail, by strengthening the quality of maritime education and development in the Evros region. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour and to strongly support this bill and this measure from its implementation. At the same time, I urge colleagues and colleagues from the Opposition to contribute productively and to be part of the country's economic, institutional and social development. Greece is turning a page. We are coming out of the size of the memorials and we are now being called upon to design our own - and only our own - policies that will be addressed to society. In this process, therefore, no misery, no misery, no pessimism, no pessimism. On the contrary, we together need to design policies with productive thinking and suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Mr. Loverdo, because I had spoken to Mrs. Vaki, you will be given the floor as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u109	It's a pleasure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u110	Because, in fact, it is from Corfu, which is currently having problems, Mrs Vaki takes the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u111	Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased today that a request for decades of the inhabitants of the island regions is finally being implemented and for the first time put in place at national level and without exceptions a measure to support insularity, which is protected by Article 101 of the Constitution, as well as by Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which expressly refers to the aim of combating the delay of the most disadvantaged regions, such as island regions. It is a fact that islanders have been feeling second-class citizens in our country for decades. The eight-year crisis and the imposition of memoranda burdened them even more. The lack of infrastructure, difficulties in moving and high transport costs have now become unreasonable. Under these conditions of budgetary stability, but also having left the comitology, the government proceeds to legislate on the transport equivalent, proving to us that islanders do not belong to a different category of citizens. The transport equivalent is institutional innovation both for the country and for the European acquis, because no other country in Europe had to implement an integrated and single island policy, since no other European state has so many and scattered islands in its territory. The application of the transport equivalent is intended to harmonise the transport costs of passengers, but also of goods, by means of public transport, with the costs of means of transport on land for the same distance to and from the islands. I would like to stress, as a Member of Parliament, that for the first time the Ionian islands are also part of the island policy. And I say at last, because as has been pointed out in the past, the Ionian islands were somehow considered to be 'non-Islands'. On the previous governments the Ionian Islands were ignored, while remaining on the margin of any government choices. The fact is that they were excluded from the measure of the reduced rate of VAT, although the inhabitants of Istanbul were affected and affected equally with the inhabitants of other island regions by a definition of their geographical location. They were also affected by serious problems that came as a result of political choices, such as constant attacks previously accepted by gradual transfer of state services from the Ionian Islands Region to the continent, the tragic reduction in PASOK and the New Republic of funding through the Public Investment Program or the continued undermining of health structures, which, in the case of Corfu, also meant that many residents were forced to address hospitals in mainland Greece and, in any event, the fact that insularity is a factor in the functioning of the health system. At this point I would like to stress that the beneficiaries of the Island Cost Compensation - that is to say, the amount paid and resulting from the difference in actual transport costs from the amount that would be paid if the transfer were made to the mainland - will not only be the permanent inhabitants of the islands, but also categories of population which, although they are not permanently resident, are often moved from one country to another. They are mostly doctors and teachers. We all understand how much this will feed the islands. Let us not forget that the already subordinated health structures on the islands, in the case of tourist areas, are called upon to provide their services in multiple numbers of patients during the summer season. Nor should we forget the acute problems faced by small islands in the regions with the so-called dual islands and the hard winters that have passed without doctors in the countryside, such as the inhabitants of the intermodal islands. A further incentive is also given to substitutes and mature teachers, as they are facilitated in their transport costs to and from the islands where the school units are serving. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the current government, in spite of the adversities, has chosen not to ignore islanders and, in fact, to recognise them something that should be self-evident in a country with such island complexes as Greece. For the Ionian Islands, the equivalent is coming to complete and, if you like, the good news of the ferry line which has been connected for the first time since May to all the Ionian islands and, as the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy said, it was to break the blockade between the islands of the same region. This government has chosen not to ignore the inhabitants of the islands. He chose not to discriminate between areas eligible for compensation for islands and areas that were finally considered only by name islands. Finally, he chose not to ignore Article 101 of the Constitution, taking serious account of the particular circumstances of the island regions and ensuring that they are developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u113	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, who has just arrived at the Step, has made a special reference to your island policy and the islands. Okay, not with bad things. But didn't you find a word to say about the waste on your island on the island you represent? We have become a laughing stock worldwide with a situation that is really hard to explain. It's hard to explain how we got there. But after three and a half years of governing the place from you, to four now, you had nothing to say about it! Ladies and gentlemen, we want to express a positive opinion on the changes made by the Minister on the basis of the proposals put forward by Mr Carras. We have now been distributed to the relevant text. I would like to remind you of what Mr Karas said about this draft law in committee, where, with today's intervention, it makes sense after his own proposal. In other words, there should be a universal application from 1-1-2019. Because, otherwise, pilot applications for many topics have been seen, we have not seen a lot of them. As far as other matters are concerned, Minister, we are now reading in financial newspapers that you intend to take a legislative initiative contrary to Article 107 of the Constitution, as far as a particular form of taxation is concerned. We read them, read them again. We do not know whether or not they apply. If what we are reading is true, beyond what compromise thoughts you have made - if you have done - with people in the field of armaments you are discussing, you should not complain. If you make such a decision, ignoring the Constitution and surrounding it with the type of law to give it prestige, you will protest after a few months when some courts say that your law is unconstitutional, you will invoke agreements that you had at various levels and protest some of you angry about the positions of the courts, while you will have violated the Constitution on your own and knowing the violation you have made. You should give an answer. If you've done it, and I haven't seen it, well, but if from what I've investigated you have not taken a position, it'll be good at some point to make a reference to your speech. I was aiming, ladies and gentlemen, because the news has many issues - many of them included in my specific speech anyway, many of which are not - from the illusion of the events that are running around this Chamber, I would like to stick to some things that I am surprised to read from speeches by Mr Kurubllis in the committee and I do not think he understood exactly what he was saying. I begin with them on popular songs "for fake words and great forty years". Forty years? Twenty years of these forty ruled PASOK, Minister. "False words of great nature" said the Opposition, then, when it was obviously elected with its false and great words, and you say, "should you say a word of criticism for them and forget that you became a government with false and great words and even many timely words. Because you say it and each of us bears the weight of what is before the National Representation, perhaps you should have a restraint when you refer to an up-to-face finger in the theaters and chairs and if you have any questions why I ask you, please ask any member or executive of the PASOK and the Change Movement for you and I think you will be very typically answered. So a finger raised by a member of a government who in five months records the floods, the management of water in Mandra, a government that contradicts itself yesterday and retreats to one issue behind the other, a government where it should be present, is absent? I think - to say a little bit more straightforward - that you're not taking responsibility in opposition lessons. You have attempted these in the Standing Committee. And while you have broken every record in your retreats by yourself, you have reached a point to celebrate things that you were the absolute enemies of, as far as the parametric changes to public debt are concerned. You underestimated them, you said "nothing", the elongations you said "skin to hang Greeks and Greeks", and now, as I will say below, you are coming and proud of them, and you have three and a half years to cause a deadly blow to the social and economic fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, you of the majority, listen to what your Minister said, addressing the opposition in general. I don't know if he was doing remedial after his arrows headed somewhere in particular. "You care" says Mr. Kourublis, addressing the opposition "the chairs, because you had learned to live only with the chairs". He says it himself. "You couldn't live another way. You now have this stress and it leads you to the depression that you do not have the power as leeches to masturbate the blood of the Greek people." Verbatim. It's just, in quotes, what he said. I don't know who he said it about, who he was looking at, I'm not a member of the committee, but, by addressing the opposition, one must respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u115	Apologise for the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u116	You're not saying that! I've got them here. I've got the minutes and I'm filing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u117	Apologise for the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u118	I've got the minutes here and I'm filing them! I got everything here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u119	Apologise for the New Democracy! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u120	No, Minister. You should find it inside. Find out where you're talking about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u121	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u122	Please! Find out, you say, "New Democracy" there. If you find it and show it to me, we'll have it over again. He has even pushed, in his own terrible speech, to talk about stabilization of the economy, instability of security for the citizens, etc. I would like, therefore, because he has said all of this - and with his contempt - to remind him that he is a member of the government that has been abolished by the CSCE instead of giving a third pension, that he has increased the indirect taxes himself, VAT to 24%, and especially to the islands that we are talking about today. Increasing the pension health contribution, karmatization of duty-free - and it is well known that it goes - down the heating allowance, increasing the price of tickets in the transport sector, reducing the dividends of the public pensioners, cutting the pensions of the disabled, increasing the contribution to medicines and diagnostic tests, generalising the clawback, reducing even those of the lower pensions of the IKA, the old pensions of the IKA of EUR 486, burdening those who have wages and blocks. And for the minimum of all this philology it still holds, let's ask the people who are taking even this minimum laid down by law to give you the right answer. Finally, the enlargement of the EMCDDA rather than abolishing a measure that, as the then head of the opposition officer and current Prime Minister said, is a measure that is abolished and not corrected. And now we are going to what you have decided and celebrated and are going on, and that is why you have given this reason for taking part in the Standing Committee. You opened this dialogue, not us. Debt, therefore, extended by a decade, a measure determined by the debt parametric regulations 2012-2014. No nominal debt reduction. And you are in an unacceptable way against the PSI. These are the same speeches of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, which now tells us that I have the aim of the New Democracy. You despised PSI 106 billion in your speech now, while you are a member of a government that even Venizelos has been recruited to defend it and the state's legal advisers are defending it. Did you make a nominal debt reduction that you promised? None. No reduction in interest rates. No reference to the famous 'development clause' in the French proposal, which you were supposed to incorporate. Of course, stay of capital control and also a commissioner in the middle of the year. With this as an act now you celebrate and celebrate without the world. I said again in this Chamber the day before yesterday how it is possible for a man to celebrate and the 'benefitful' people to be absent. And instead of the "benefit" people being the platoons of the MATs to protect your vegetation. However, the most appalling point in Mr Kurubli's speech - and I conclude with that - is that which abdicates the opposition to the recent motion of distrust against the government, expressing the question 'what would have happened if that proposal had been voted in favour?' This is a question, ladies and gentlemen, in which, manifestly and self-evidently, an answer is appropriate: elections would be called. The Greek people would obviously feel unmistakable rejoicing and immense relief and the ministers of this inefficient and bad government would go to their homes and the country would make the future more optimistic. That's the answer. Just parliamentary things of the first grade in parliamentary education. When a government is voted down, it leaves. That would have happened. Don't freak out. Nothing else would have happened. And now - I am closing with this, Mr President - it is an astonishing impression that yesterday's no paper from Maximos, explaining the reduction of the parliamentary majority against a Member of Parliament, with various scenarios of economic interest. The known thighs that each one who loses the ball that loses the ground under his feet, which moves the ground under his feet. He's trying to find something to say. It's some people's fault. In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clearer. He said: 'Let me tell you what is going on and what is going on in this House'. At the same time, some of your Members said this morning: 'Okay, some are leaving, some are coming'. In addition to the arguments that make you laugh, I want to ask you a question: the one who leaves you gets money. The one who comes to you doesn't he get? You must be serious and you must understand that this kind of mud, against whomever it is addressed, is not the right thing. We have nothing to do with the former ANE MEP, nor politics, nor ideological, if you wish to be a parliament for the years that have passed and have been in the Chamber with us. However, when you find people on your side that leave you, you also swear yourselves and all of us, and you must take care of them. You have lost all your ruins, your political curtain has zeroed and the garlic leaves of this government do not gather, no matter how many words you say, no matter how many such categories you do. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Incorporation and Change Movement in relation to this draft law have been expressed once again seriously. Its proposals were partially accepted and we welcomed that. Our vote is up to this whole parliamentary procedure. I close my speech by saying this: Minister, whoever lifts the finger and speaks in the inappropriate way you have spoken - with Mr Venizelos you have also been partners - will receive the appropriate answers to Parliament every time. The people hear, the people hear and nothing will save you, neither the fascist nor the accusations nor the mud you are trying to fly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u123	We shall proceed with the speeches of three colleagues, Mr Ursouzides, Mr Brutsi and Mr Arvanitides, and then Mr Kasidiaris will speak as a Parliamentary representative of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy on the implementing mechanism, supervision and conditions for the implementation of the transport equivalent for our islands, the Aegean Islands and since 2019 for all the islands of the country, except for Crete due to the size and completeness of infrastructure, Evia and Lefkada due to land accessibility. Despite this, since there is room for manoeuvre, I think the case of Crete should be assessed accordingly. But what's the metaphor? What's this about? It obviously has nothing to do with VAT. It's a different thing. It is a measure which seeks to harmonise transport costs for passengers and goods by means of public transport in relation to the costs to be incurred in the means of transport on land for the same distance to and from the islands. By Joint Ministerial Decision will be adopted each year, the maximum number of passenger tickets for which the actual transport costs will be met, taking into account the distance from mainland Greece, the administrative centre, the existing infrastructure for health, education and so on. Those islands that lack infrastructure and media will obviously enjoy more routes, especially the remote islands where life is really difficult. The philosophy of the measure is based on the principles of parity and equality, it removes inequalities and strengthens those groups of people who do not have the same opportunities and who have been deprived of them for too many years. We are talking about the Aegean islands, which are a complex of three thousand fifty three islands with a total development of nine thousand eight hundred kilometres from the fifteen thousand forty-seven that our country has, i.e. 65% of the wonderful coastlines belong to the Aegean islands. The total area corresponds to 17.1% of the country's territory, i.e. twenty-two thousand square kilometres from the hundreds of thirty-two thousand square kilometres from our country. For many years, therefore, islanders have experienced unequal conditions of competition, confronting serious problems, such as high transport costs, lack of infrastructure and difficulties in travel. This resulted in, among other things, the incomplete exploitation of natural wealth and the problematic promotion of the unique products produced and standardised on many of our islands. Many of these islands have experienced conditions of abandonment and desertification, the result of the indifference of the central administration for many years, the inefficient political and memorandum measures of recent years, such as the whole country. All the above were directly violating the principles of equality and territorial cohesion, but also Article 101 of the Constitution on respect for island regions. They brought our islanders the feeling of isolation, fatigue and aging. This must undoubtedly change. I think it is not possible to have healthy competition, when, obviously, the cost of transporting people and products is at the expense of island Greece, as is the case with fuels which are additionally and disproportionately burdened by islands in relation to mainland Greece. Consequently, by inactivating for many years, the Greek state has basically stood in the way of the development of our islands, especially the small instants, despite the fact that there is the uniqueness of products and natural beauty, at global level I could say. So we all lost out of this proverbial inertia. But what is the point of taking the measure into account? For a four-member family of between EUR 600 and 1000 per year, that is to say one and a half times the pension received today by the pensioner of the OGA, such as my father or any other low pensioner. For businesses, on the basis of the estimated transport work on the islands, I will give you a few examples of the subsidies they will receive: For Astypalea up to EUR 426 000, for Lesvos up to EUR 660 000, for Lesvos, the corresponding amount is EUR 695 000 and, of course, for all those working on the islands in education, the National Health System, the Security Body. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the transport equivalent to be voted on, as is now understood, is not only about islanders. It's about the whole country. Apart from the obvious economic gain, I think that national reasons are still more obvious. They are about inspiring a climate of optimism and continuing life on our islands, our small atrocity islands with those wonderful Greeks who feel as an inviolable duty to preserve the traditions of our people, making our islands valuable to the whole world, our Aegean diamonds. I can only be grateful. So, with great pleasure and excitement, I support the measure that is finally being implemented, for the first time this year, in 2018, after many years and even in the midst of a crisis, removing an injustice of many years. Measures such as this will follow much, as always by measure and without borrowing, as used by previous governments that bankrupt the country on the altar of interests, self-protectives and protectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u125	We continue with Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, Member of the New Democracy Cyclades.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking, first of all, as a Member of the island country, a Member of Parliament from the Cyclades Prefecture, who first suffered the painful decision of the Government - I shall refer briefly - to abolish the national benefit which all governments have supported for decades after 1982, the reduced VAT for the island country, for the Aegean Sea. Secondly, it is trying today, as I will prove, to make transport equivalent, a time-consuming request, a constant request, a fair request for islanders, to be abused in the most brutal, most insidious way on the part of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And I'm explaining: A few months ago, PASOK MEP, KINAL, asked the European Parliament a question and asked who was responsible for the loss of VAT in the Aegean Sea. The answer was catalyst: ‘It was a decision of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL the abolition of VAT in the Aegean.’ The reduced VAT in the Aegean Sea was the oxygen that for decades supported families, households. He gave economic breath to all the inhabitants of the Aegean islands. It was a decision taken in 1982 by Constantine Karamanlis, when we joined the EEC at that time. He looked forward to the future and said that the Aegean Sea, due to the island specificity, must enjoy a special status. It then exchanged, with the agreement of the other nine Member States, the Aegean VAT as a gift for our accession to the EEC at that time. So this gift, the special regime, has been maintained for decades. In 1987 the PASOK Government first applied VAT and then joined the new regulation and the economic framework of Europe. He did give up oxygen. Think that from the 9% that was the reduced VAT in the Aegean Sea today, with SYRIZA's policy, 24%. Fifteen points in 100 is the loss for each islander. But let's see the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u127	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u128	Gentlemen of government, do you have the courage to speak with what you have done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u129	From 9% to 24%? There's nothing you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u130	Sure. From 9% to 24%. And I keep going. Indeed, the troika asked for VAT to be equivalent to mainland Greece. Neither the Papandreou government, nor the Papademos government, nor the Samara government ever thought about delivering the VAT. And he did it the next day in gift packed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Indeed, it was Mr. Tsipras' extremist provocative provocative that was electionally bound and spoke about the Aegean's VAT and she was crying, supposedly. And whether or not Mr. Kammenos, who came out of the Maximos Mansion and wept, was supposed to say "over my body" to the islanders. And the next day she voted for it and went to Syros and talked about criminal energy. Mr. Kammenos said, Minister, it's criminal and unconstitutional. Mr. Kammenos, your partner, the other part of your government. Removal of VAT. We lost this valuable resource for the Aegean Sea. Today the government comes and tries in practice with a communication bubble to give air to the islanders. He's bringing a bill that - look out! - First of all, it's vague. Secondly, there is no timetable for implementation. Thirdly, it refers to six ministerial decisions, four and two, which - although - will be implemented. Fourth and most critical: Resources ensures? I ask the Government: Where are the resources to fund this programme? There's no resources. It's air uncooked, I repeat. He's attacking, takes the money of the Public Investment Program from the Ministry of Shipping, which is to make projects on the islands, and goes to give them in the form of an allowance. Who's doing this? SYRIZA - ANEL Government. the known tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u131	Rectal liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u132	How would it be right to do that? The right thing would be to do in November 2017, when we voted on the budget, to have a specific code to plan and format expenditure on this measure and follow in their budgets. Did he do it? Of course not. Because in her mind it was this communication planning, in the pre-election period that we are already going through, to compensate for the anger and anger of the islands with a measure that is in the air. The resources are not guaranteed and the timetable for its implementation will be presented in the future. That's the reality. How, ladies and gentlemen, do I, as an islander, support a measure, a government legislative decision that is a mockery for islanders? We are therefore telling you that this measure will be changed. We are going to conduct a real island policy, the one you have violated and criminalised against the islanders. We will have a constructive debate with all the islanders, with the district managers you have not listened to. You saw what they told you. "Leave the VAT", the abolition of which begins today in the five remote islands, the last blockade to defend the real island policy "and do not take this measure". You have ignored the district managers of the Aegean Sea. They told you at the conferences you did. You ignored them. You bring this legislative structure, which is ineffective, it is also unfair, it is bureaucratic and it creates a state with new bureaucratic structures. All of this soon we'll change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u133	That's not a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u134	Very soon we will change them and bring in a new framework, a new network which will actually deliver an island policy to islanders and not communication bubbles by election, as SYRIZA attempts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u135	Do not interrupt, Minister. You do this on a number of occasions. What we heard before is right and we didn't react?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u136	Well, calm down, please! In both ministerial and parliamentary seats. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u137	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u138	When you take the floor, tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u139	Now, what do you want? Can I raise the voice to calm both the ministerial seats and the parliament? Well, we're going with Mr. Arvanitides, and then Mr. Cassidy has the floor. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government day after day seeks communication equivalents to disorientate and hide its collapse. The collapse of the electoral, parliamentary, but above all its collapse in the Greek society. And while government degradation and demilitarisation continue and accelerate, SYRIZA - ANEL during their friendly tactics build communal equivalents and lifesavings from the floods that have erupted the summer. They make communal equivalents and lifesavings to escape their heavy responsibilities on all fronts. Both on the front of national issues and on the front of internal management issues. On these fronts, then, they are trying to escape from their responsibilities for negotiations in the scop, negotiations with Albania, debt negotiations, negotiations on garbage in Attica and the Ionian Sea. You bring holistic plans, but especially on the issue of waste, we are talking about holistic failure, holistic failure of SYRIZA against SYRIZA and delays of three years, delays paid by tourism and citizens in Corfu and Athens. The negotiations on anti-military works, which have not yet begun in Mandra, Attica. The negotiations for the return of the Parthenon marbles, which we should also be concerned about. To avoid a substantial debate in all of this, there will be a diversion. All communication life on the altar of disorientation and support for the account of the good and incorruptible government fighting the old evil system. When the revision of the Constitution and the separation of church and state, when the charges for apostates and destabilization plans, communication fireworks, are forged as equivalent to the moral advantage that collapses, too. A moral advantage that the eyes of the islands in particular have now ceased to exist by abolishing the low VAT rate on the islands. Why don't you, gentlemen of the government, bring in the proposal that we have put forward on VAT? The increase in VAT on the islands is a decision taken by the government on its own responsibility and now seeks transport equivalent as a counterweight. After losing the moral advantage in the islands' eyes, it now presents a right measure as a panacea that will solve everything. Golden the pill, that is, not the islands as a whole. Let me remind you that it was our party that started to claim the transport equivalent within the European Union, and then it was never raised the question of reducing VAT on the islands or cutting down any other beneficial measure. The government's decision to increase VAT on the islands, which are already suffering from the refugee and the tourism competition that exists and will be intensified by Turkey and Egypt, will result in negative consequences for the entire Greek society. And we will find this before us in the next few years. Finally, I should like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. I have spoken in this Chamber several times about the imaginable way your Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is legislating. In particular, for the first time amendments to the 'left' amendments, one is presented with amendments that have not even been tabled, and the other is rules in the accompanying reports, which do not exist in the body of articles, the third is cryptology, and this time the case comes again from the dear Minister for Energy and the Environment, who tells us by number 1629, which brings us two articles, one for the Register and one for the EGM? In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, it calls for the adoption of a law within the next few days and even for the vote to be deferred. It's a precedent for the House too. This time you're done with it. All of this while you had brought the law on maritime planning a few days ago, an amendment that you finally withdrawn, to regulate the debts to workers. Mr Stathakis had even said attributes - and I will read you out of the Minutes of plenary - when the law on the completion of maritime spatial planning was passed, he said: 'There was a provision we were preparing but it was not completed. One way has been found that will make the commitment to judicial decisions compatible without any legislative regulation." And now what do we see? We see EUR 220 000 for interest on late payment, so will the cost of further prolonging the suspension of administrative and forced execution against the FGMD. Prolongation to prolongation, no more permanent than the provisional. The burdens are also increased for Greek taxpayers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want little time, Mr President. And all because you delayed applying judicial decisions and find solutions to come in the day after tomorrow and change all the legal status of the UFO. A year has passed since the first amendment which has given rise to the extension which expires in a few days and you have not given any solution to the problem of FIFG. You kept throwing the ball at the platform. Workers need to know what you intend to do with the institute. The IGM, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly downgraded and at an economic deadlock when the most important experience of its staff is lost due to the retirement and insufficient staffing to be absorbed, to transfer this great experience. And all this at times when the development of European mineral resources is one of the Union's first priorities. In almost all the countries, the relevant GMOs are the main players in technology research and development and, at the same time, advisers, not only governments, but also industry. Finally, these institutes have managed to have the majority of their revenues from private projects rather than state subsidies. We are therefore waiting, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for your proposal on the evolution of the EGMM in a modern institute with a flexible structure that will adapt to the scientific and economic priorities of the country and the union in its scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u141	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u142	We experience days critical for the nation of the Greeks, days critical for the country, days of wrath. It is the days of Greeks' fair wrath about the national treason that has committed the motif of Tsipras and Kammenos. No one forgets what Tsipras said in 2011 about the then memorial rulers, that they would dare move neither into cafés nor in social events and be proud and celebrated. And today the crew of time came, with Tsipras committing an even more shameful national treason where it cannot be released at social events, either within or outside Greece. And he faces the fair wrath of Greek citizens. Until London the grace of "Dear Alexis Tsipras, Too hard to die". Throughout Europe, the factors of this terrible conflict that has betrayed our national interests are treated in the fairest way by Greek citizens. And it really is ridiculous that the Syrians protesting violence, the praisers of violence, those who have denounced the paramilitary violence against their political opponents and especially the Golden Dawn. The ministers, such as Skourletis, who declared proud because his son was arrested, tried and sentenced by a paramilitary gang that broke the offices of the People's Association - Golden Dawn party. So the praisers of violence do not complain today. Of course, we also see the other vicious and oxymotor, those who would abolish MATs - I watched photos with Voutsis at the ERT to fight with MATs - today to praise MATs, cannot come out of their home if there are no over-appropriate MATs, which with clobs and murderous synergies open the heads of the citizens who claim self-evidently, claim popular sovereignty, because popular sovereignty in Greece today requires that Macedonia's name should not be allocated to the lousy state of the cottages. I have to tell the symbiotes that it is not the problem of these incidents, which may exist. Their problem is the popular anger that will erupt very soon and explode as a bomb into the poll. And there Tsipras and his undocumented gang will be sentenced by the Greek people to one-digit rates, at the real rates of SYRIZA, to 3% -4% at the most. What the polls, which are not made public for good reasons, show, are that today - and I say this in the name of knowledge and inform the Greek people - throughout Macedonia and Thrace, Kammenos does not exist as a party, and SYRIZA has collapsed into one-off figures and the second party is Golden Dawn, with more than 15% of them. This fact, this decision by Greek citizens is the great hope for Greece. For with a powerful Golden Dawn, with a Golden Dawn in power, not only will the Ethnic Tsipras - Zaev be canceled, but the Greek will again take Greece into his hands. By the way, I should like to say that the Secretary-General of the People's League - Golden Dawn is the only political leader who has already been mobilised and by an official letter sent to the United Nations Organization, NATO, the government of the state of Skopje and the governments of the major states of the European Union, clearly states that with the Golden Dawn in power we will not take into account the ethnic-progressive signature of Chipras in the Prespes and we will be de facto canceling this disgusting, unscrupulous, oppressed and ethno-progressive agreement. This is Golden Dawn. That is why it is being strengthened every day. That's why you're fighting us in every terrible instrument. It is no coincidence that from 2015 until today, once again elected by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, no public step has been taken on any of the channels of interlocutors and pimps. The whole system, all parties, all channels, all major players of economic life, pimps of public life, fight with every means the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We have seen the wretched images, the ridiculous images of Tsipras with the tie to Zapeio, - the epitome of ridiculousness, these very images describe the political life as the disgraceful co-existence and partnership of SYRIZA - ANEL - who said it takes Greece out of the memorials. We would laugh if things were not tragic for the country, if in 2019 there were no new reductions in the pensions of the poor Greek citizens, if in 2020 there was no new tax-free change, which would affect even the poorest Greeks, who, in the absence of poverty, are trying to survive against the blows caused by your Memorandum of Conflict. The major danger, however, is not the economic frustration of Greece. The major danger, the project that they have been carrying out, with excellent design and obeying orders from foreign power centers for decades, is the demographic death of Greece. It is what you are doing today to send the Greeks abroad, to force them to become immigrants, but also those who are staying in Greece to force them to be immigrants, refugees and second-class citizens within Greece, exalting those who come inside Greece illegally. Within this draft law that is being passed today, in Article 3, you are giving the allowance to foreigners who live on the islands. In 2019, in fact, this allowance will be for all the islands of Greece except for Crete. Have you gone to the largest islands of the Aegean Sea, before the tourist season begins, to see that the Greeks are a sad minority and the Albanians are majority? Not to talk about Chios, Lesvos, where they have come from the depths of Asia, they have come from North Africa, they have come all the criminals of the third world and they have taken over these islands and every day they are violent, robbing, criminalizing, at the expense of the Greeks. This situation that has been formed on the islands of Greece today is your goal to expand to the whole country. And that is the major danger, the demographic death of Greece. It is your goal in a few years' time that our homeland should not be inhabited by Greeks, so that not only will our nation die demographicly, but above all that foreign loan sharks, who are today deposing Tsipras, should remove our national wealth. All the means of international tachography, all the governments that, until now, you called tachyphics, today have opened the arms, welcome Tsipras as the absolute man - the key to the conquest of Greece by foreign power centers. Hope - I say again - great hope for the nation, great hope for our country is the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which today proved to be the second political power throughout northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace, and very soon this phenomenon will be extended to our entire country. On the other hand, of course, we are hitting SYRIZA, we are hitting Kammenos, the non-existent political Kammenos, who is not even 0% presently in Greece. It only works as a laughter on the channels to say nonsense to disguise the country's political situation. On the other hand, we have many truths to say about the New Democracy party that is allegedly claiming power, because it has given foreigners "go and water", just like SYRIZA. The party of the New Democracy, therefore, Kyriakos Mitsotakis' leader publicly confesss that he is not disturbed by "North Macedonia". It does not bother him - and rightly says it - that the performance of the term 'Macedonia', Macedonia's betrayal in the state of Skopje. After all, this has been the official line of the New Democracy for too many years. It is the use of the term "Macedonia" by Skopje. And in his last interview, Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of ethnicity, he spoke about language, but he said nothing at all about the assignment, about the betrayal of Macedonia's name and the use of the term "Macedonia" by the state of Skopje. And he said, of course, a great lie, that this agreement is not annulled. Of course, this agreement can be cancelled by a genuinely national government. And this must be heard by the Greek people. Because it is an illegal agreement, which has abolished popular sovereignty, has abolished the majority principle, it has abolished the basic principle of the Constitution, on the basis of which all powers are derived and derived from the Greek people. For an absolute majority - over 90% - of the Greek people the decision is explicit: no transfer of the term "Macedonia" to Skopje. A symbian recruit came out and recomplicated the Golden Dawn and said: "They who were after me to beat me and swear me - and rescued the MATs - were goldens". And they ask him, "How do you know? Do you know them by name?’ And he replied: 'No, but they said the slogan 'tunks, traitors politicians'. So, in order to make it clear, once and for all, the Greek citizens, who are rightly calling you bums and traitors, cannot all be golden, because then the Golden Dawn would have more than 90%, it would be the absolute majority and would have cleaned up once and for all the corruption, fraud and all these ethnic-progressive plans, which you are working against Greece. There was a symbiosis once and he told me we were going back to the country for five hundred years. Of course, she accepted... And when the same factors came in, they took the country back a thousand and a half hundred years. You haven't taken us to the Middle Ages, you've taken us to the Cave era. You have destroyed Greece, you have destroyed our country. Of course, what the Greek people hold for you, your political future, is your ultimate political disaster. It is 0%, it is the final farewell to SYRIZA, the ANELs and all these ethnic-progressive parties from Greece's political things. You have done within these years a mass of crimes against our country: Illegal immigrants' settlement, the absolute decline to dominate all over with gay parade, according to the cohabitation arrangements, with all these disgusting legislation. Continue to promote rhysphetology. I see that you have tabled an amendment to the heads of RSH, which must be three years old, namely, since 2015, and therefore it is only those who were appointed in 2015. They're your kids, who've taken over the entire state mechanism. And within all this, you go to make separation of the Church - state. You're going to hurt the Orthodoxy with lousy in it. Because what hurts the international rulers is that the Greeks in 97% have a homogeneity of nationality and religion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u143	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President. Beware, we were the only state in the world with such homogeneity of nationality and religion. The inhabitants of this country, until this country was affected by the destructive parties of Postmopulation, were 97% Greek and Christian Orthodox. And this, of course, will return to Greece and Greece will cleanse those who have understood it illegally. Greece will clean up the corrupt political system when Golden Dawn takes over the rule of the country. I conclude by saying this: because you have a candy that you are using on a permanent basis for the destruction of a culture, I regret to say to you that the city is now abolished and destroyed in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u145	Finish, Mr. Cassier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u146	The guilty of this crime are SYRIZA and ANEL, because since 2015 with the referendum, when the resounding "OTI" of the Greek people has been imprisoned in the most illegal and unconstitutional way, so far with the betrayal of Macedonia's name, where the people's sovereignty has again been assigned, the only guilty ones who will be tried and condemned for the catastrophe of the Greek civilisation in Greece are Tsipras, Kammenos and all their terrible gang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u147	Before you leave the Chamber, Mr. Cassidy, I want to say something. You hear it, and all colleagues hear it. I'm saying it by the way, but it's true for everyone. Rule 66(8) states that the speaker cannot be removed from the matter under discussion, otherwise the President invites him to return to it. If he fails to comply, the President warns him that he will take the floor and if after this new label the speaker does not return to the matter, the President shall take the floor away from him. It is another thing to talk about two or three minutes on a topical issue, and another thing to talk about another bill, and another to be the placement, completely irrelevant, of any speaker. I would like to make it clear that at least if it happens again with me in the Chair, then I will apply the article that I read to you. That's all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, what you are saying is, of course, correct. I accept it. I referred, of course, to amendments and articles of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u149	All right, Mr. Cassidy, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u150	I would like to stress that as a parliamentary representative of the party - because I have not only the role of the speaker but also the parliamentary representative - I have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u151	I didn't tell you not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u152	...to talk about the major issues concerning the people and the homeland. That's what I did without breaking the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u153	The Rules of Procedure are clear. Another thing you say about me and another fourteen minutes talking about the bill. And I beg you to erase them from the Minutes from... and then. We shall proceed with Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Palli - Mr Meikopoulou will probably speak last because he is in another obligation - and Mr Dimitriadis. Then, if he is another parliamentary representative, he will take the floor. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to refer to the bill and the communication policy of the Government which brings it up only a few hours before the abolition of VAT on the islands which have been left, but also to refer to an intervention by the President of this House, Mrs Voutsis, who has just been attacked at the offices of the MEP, Mr Katsiki. Mr Voutsis, in a proper position in all respects, called for the disapproval to be pandemic rather than selective, netting and rewarding views that lead to violent action. It happened today, shortly before this statement by Mr Voutsi, to find a post which refers to ten attacks on Members - mainly PASOK - and the corresponding statements by the SYRIZA Press Office. SYRIZA said in the attack against Mr. Petsan, our Member: 'We know them that their policy instigates social protests'. Mr. Kammenos said of Mr. Pachta: “Pachta must not be released. Lindsay him. Me with you." So welcome to Mr Voutsi's appeals. We take them as a remembrance of SYRIZA, but it must be done against all those who strangled us, who hung up the posters in the squares with the slogan that we were unwanted and gathered under our offices with violence, because we had a specific political view. I'm coming to the bill now. Our rapporteur, Mr Carras, said that a good idea is put into a very bad wrapping, this bill, which will be incomplete, and highlighted the reasons why it will be incomplete. Apart from bureaucracy in return for the equivalent in terms of tickets, what matters is the cost that is accumulated to the consumer, particularly after the abolition of the reduced VAT. This cost is no way of being replaced, as the equivalent is to be deposited in the account of the companies with regard to consumer goods. I'm not talking about tickets. Consequently, how can it be ensured that the one who bought any commodity for a lasting use, for example, and bought it cheaper on the islands, why did he have to have a lower living cost there, will it be transferred through the equivalent? This is a subject on which too many objections have been expressed. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters to SYRIZA is that it comes and theorizes the abolition of reduced VAT. I have already heard Mr Kourublis interrupting our rapporteur by saying: 'You are hiding that it was not about transport'. Nice to see you, the kid! You know that Mr. Kourublis was a hundred years of PASOK before going to SYRIZA and every three and a little praises Andreas Papandreou, who is the one who established, through the negotiation he made during the application of VAT to Greece, the exception to the islands that were extended by the Aegean Sea and the other islands after. Mr. Curublis, where was he then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u155	You didn't react when these gentlemen were saying other things. You didn't react when they said Karamanlis set it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u156	Minister, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u157	Let go, let go. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u158	You should answer that. Say what you want. But you cannot blame those who have destroyed for forty years Greece, as you say, of which the twenty ruled PASOK. Mr. Loverdos told you earlier. And you're part of this disaster. Don't think it's Siloam's swimming pool because you cashed in a chair your transfer. It's not Siloam's swimming pool!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u159	Calm down! Domestics outside of Athoussis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u160	You know how to mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u161	Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u162	You've got a loss of temper. I get it. But what can we do? That's the hard reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u163	You're an old parliamentarian. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u164	So I am actually coming here, ladies and gentlemen. The Democratic Reconciliation has tabled a proposal for a law which, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, had to have come for discussion and the majority came and said that it did not accept it. What does this proposal of law say quite simply? It says that for the islands, for which the reduced VAT was extended up to 30 June, it is extended by one year. And what is the assessment of the General Accounting Office of the State, whose report we have here, and I submit it? It's 78 million. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, when the government told us the day before yesterday when we voted in the medium term and is now spreading through the press that it is working on various plans to divide over-excessive people, cannot it make available 78 million for islanders, those who are suffering and because of the migratory crisis? I think it can, I just don't think it's negotiating. It does not negotiate this because it considers that the reduced VAT on the islands had been poorly paid. Do not make the mistake of calculating the costs in relation to the difference that existed in the past, because VAT has now increased to 24% and a group of broad-popular consumption products has transferred to the highest rate, which was at the small rate of 13%. So it is the great cost to the consumer, the permanent resident of the islands. In any case, if I am wrong about this assessment, you have nothing but to bring this proposal for a law that we have tabled, to discuss it to finally see what your views are: Or inability to negotiate, or in theory you say that this was a mistake, which is why we are abolishing it. But you can't go tell the islands. On the islands, you say they blackmailed us. I shall conclude, Mr President, in order not to trouble you any more, with this: Minister, Mr Kurublé, you have privileged relations with Catalonia. We all know. So, the Mayor of the Tower, Mr. Liatsis, the Latsis Foundation, based in Katakolo, told you nothing about the request at the Faculty of Commercial Navy in Cataco? I think you've been told. Politics, Minister, is not based on the origins of the Ministers and the State Secretarys. Welcome to Kalymnos School. I wish it would work! They have a maritime tradition. However, do not underestimate Catalo's offer and its overall contribution to the shipping and shipping of the Catalan, who have been magnified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u165	What I did about the Tower, you should have the courage to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u166	We'll wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u167	Six years you've been government with New Democracy, and the garbage fell into the houses!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Curublis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u169	I've told you before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Kutsuko, close, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u171	I've told you that if SYRIZA hadn't taken over the dumps, the garbage would have been solved many years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Kutsuko, close up. We don't care about your personalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u173	Thanks to us and the FLOWER, the theme of garbage has been solved, and you're here to get the plaques!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Kutsuko, thank you. Listen, Minister, I've told you that when I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, when it comes to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u176	You're gonna ask for the floor, according to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u177	Anyone who comes to me will also get an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u178	First of all, put down the tone of your voice, because it won't pass on to me. Secondly, ask for the floor in accordance with the parliamentary order on staff and I will give it to you. What I don't allow you to do is stop and ignore me all the time. It's over! Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u179	He said, the President said before about what we're going to say in our speech, but Mr. Koutsoukos from nine minutes spoke only one about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u180	All right, Mr. Palley, and you'll have the relative tolerance, just like everyone else. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u181	No, it's not a matter of time. Ladies and gentlemen, you realise that we are once again talking about self-evident things. It has now been shown that every effort by the current government will be confronted with the self-spiriting and shocking reaction of counter-population. What excuse, however, do you have, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, when it comes to legislation relating to positive action, safeguarding and guaranteeing the individual and social rights of the citizens of that country? Questions of the press have still been heard from committee meetings: why are you bringing the equivalent of transport to the vote? What's the philosophy of the bill? Why were you so late? Why are so many actors involved? If you had the money, why did you remove the reduced VAT? Can you imagine that these kinds of questions hide a single purpose, to divert discussion at the expense of a measure which seeks to pursue a substantial development and social policy? That's why I'm so sorry. To avoid any misunderstanding, however, I am explaining. The transport equivalent is not a countermeasure of VAT. This measure is independent, autonomous and has its own logic. He should have come to the House many years ago, regardless of VAT. And, if you want, it is more targeted to restore the competitiveness of islands and islands. Finally, transport equivalent is a policy provided for by European Union policies that claim or have implemented other European countries with a much smaller issue of islandity. As to why it has been delayed, it is one of the many things you have not dared to do all the previous years and to blame us for not doing so during the first three years of our administration in parallel with the efforts of the Government and the staff of the ministries to carry out the programme that was completed a few days ago as a follow-up to the programmes and the bazaar you had caused. Ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department and PASOK, the transport equivalent is another proof that it is our Government that works for a better tomorrow in this country, and it was yours who kept Greece behind all these years and that they finally bankrupt it. You could at least remain silent. As far as the philosophy of the measure is concerned, as well as the difficulty of implementing it, I will focus on two key points, in my own crisis: the collective and coordinated effort of government officials and public administration and the overall attitude of the government towards the specificity of the Greek island area. Starting with the second, it is important to point out that the transport equivalent is not an individual measure - fireworks. On the contrary, it is a systematic effort to exploit all available resources from the administration and coordinate state institutions, services and local bodies for the benefit of island Greece in order to combat social inequality. Insularity continues to act as a disadvantage giving rise to social inequalities. The exclusions and discriminations that every citizen who chooses to live on an island are not inevitable, as much as desirable. Consider that once ship transport of people and products was the only one, certainly the easiest and most economic solution when there were no road networks, when there were no railways. And as motorways facilitate access to the dark mountain continent and Macedonia, solutions should also be found to the geographical specificities of the islands. The specific nature of transport lies in the overall influence on the socio-economic activity of the areas in which they are developed. They form more favourable or less favourable conditions for the provision of services and for the production and marketing of competing products. The transport equivalent is therefore expected to contribute positively to the quality of the services provided. It will act as a back-up to all the parallel actions promoted by the Ministries on the islands, in the areas of health, education, energy, culture and sport. At the same time, the simulation of the cost of transporting goods with this land Greece will enable island companies to compete with the companies of mainland Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. I'm going to the second issue. The calculation of the island cost compensation, the definition of beneficiaries, the financing and the monitoring of the measure, the planning of national policy requires an unprecedented effort to coordinate all public bodies. Whilst using IT technologies, procedures are being achieved and administrative burdens are being minimised for the citizen, I am glad to see that the public days that the right hand did not know what the left hand is doing have gone unreturned. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this is not a tested measure, despite the fact that it has been implemented in some European countries. This is the first time that it has been applied in a country with hundreds of inhabited islands. The pilot run in the early fifty islands is expected to start immediately and in practice it is reasonable to have several corrections. This is also the concept of the pilot project. I believe that this should not discourage, on the contrary, this is the most appropriate way to go. The difference with the previous governments that just lived in the discussions is that this particular one believes, dares, and eventually does. I want to make two comments before I close. I was listening to Mr Brutsi, who was also an islander who said 'whether or not to be implemented'. I'm sorry, gentlemen, this is your practice all these years. We bring something and we apply it, we do not announce it and we never apply it. I have heard Mr Koutsouko that we are going to VAT as a whole at 24%. As throughout Greece there are three categories of VAT. The only thing which, unfortunately, was cheaper on our islands was the medicine, because the price is determined by the state and was discounted. Because otherwise, we did not enjoy the islanders - and you know that very well - reduced prices because of VAT. He probably held back prices, despite reducing them. I'm going to close up with something that's so sad. The attitude of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u182	You don't like it, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u183	The JRC's attitude makes me sad because the JRC was one of the first to claim the measures on island policy and VAT and on transport equivalent. Unfortunately, the JRC has recently abandoned its fixed positions and struggles...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u184	And you do them now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u185	...in an effort to get Mr. Mitsotakis Prime Minister. And I'm hanging up with Mrs. Kaloger. Let him read Article 10, see that they are all the islands of the northern Aegean in, applying from July onwards to talk about something that will never be implemented. It is a disgrace to the North Aegean region with all the islands in it making such a criticism of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u186	We shall proceed as follows: The Minister will now take the floor, and then three colleagues will follow, Mr Dimitriadis, Mr Syrigos, Mrs Kafantaris, and if a parliamentarian like Mrs Manolakou wants to speak after the three colleagues. Then there is Dr. Dritsas, Mrs. Karakostas, Mr. Psakakis, Mr. Boukokouros and Mr. Pavlides close the speakers, and there are three parliamentary representatives left and the Deputy Minister. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a popular saying says that love and cough are not hidden. And the love of some on the right seems to be unbearable. I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, by following the debate three days, that unfortunately the lack of bravery, misinformation, micropsy and recital lies were the elements with which a third sober and calm observer could characterise the positions of counterpopulation. And I'll explain myself in a certain way. Ladies and gentlemen, was it or was it not a matter that was mentioned and mentioned in the election programmes for forty years the transport equivalent? In fact, some parties who are currently very interested in this, I doubt they were in their last election program and the equivalent of transport. And a question arises. All right, to accept that it is not the best it could have been, under the specific restrictive budgetary conditions that the country lives on. You were most ministers - not just MPs, but ministers! - to the governments that preceded them. And I am not saying about the time of the crisis - not to tell me that I am wrong for you - I am talking about the period of fat cows, who have taken the public debt from 170 billion to 300 billion. Why didn't you apply it? Why? What are you going to say to this world? Will you say, 'You know, do we consider the 150 million that the government has decided to make available for the transport equivalent, that they are crumbs'? And you generous ones who wake up and sleep with your agony for the islands and islands, when you had that possibility, why didn't you apply it? What are you going to say to this world? Second, why misinformation? Ladies and gentlemen, the government had made an election commitment to the equivalent of transport. And so he came in this period and proceeded with this process. We didn't go that way, because the metaphysical illusion came. We had a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. Eight organised meetings were held with all directly involved, involving the most valid scientific body of the Aegean, which is the University of the Aegean. Can anyone question that? Oh, no. For they have done so, you have heard them from the institutions. No body came yesterday to say "you know, you didn't call us, we didn't talk". We've all talked to each other, exhaustingly. And so this effort went on and it arrived here today. Why lie recital? That sounds like great things. Idiot verbs. 9%, he says, became 24% VAT. But you never told the world that VAT had never been abolished in transport, where it is also the cost associated with the quality of life of consumers. You never said so, you hid it. And here comes the government to implement a measure and it is also an observatory to monitor whether this measure really touches the citizens, whether it reaches the citizens and not the pockets of the few. That's what we're doing. Did you have it? You are talking about VAT, which did not apply to a number of actions and actions in the Aegean. Has there ever been a system that watched whether this abolished VAT benefited the citizens or the pockets of a few? Because I heard you fight because we don't have inside and some big companies. You cannot be weaned by the great interests. That's the truth. Even here you're here to tell us something like that, and you don't grow up in front of me when you say it. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we mean when we call transport equivalent? What are we trying to do? We are attempting to reduce the cost of passenger and product transport and to adapt it to the greatest possible extent with the cost of inland transport. This effort proves to have a particular benefit for citizens. After all, I said to you: we are recommending the observatory to monitor, so that it does not become what is usually done where all the policies implemented are finally in the pockets of the few. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So the evidence comes and shows that in Alonissos, we will have 3,000,000 to benefit from the transport equivalent in Mytilini 6,000,000, in Chios 5,000,000, in Ikaria 2,000,000, but also in all the islands. There was one comment - I accept it well - that, if it concerns all the islands, this government is moving to a decree, which is the President of the Republic, and we can be checked in a few days, if you like, by any of my colleagues on what it is about. The General Secretariat of the Aegean Sea is extended to all the islands. However, he told you that within the islands of the pilot program they are also Ionian islands. Therefore, it is not limited to the Aegean. That's why I don't want it sometimes, but I'm telling you to come here more well-reading. So I say, ladies and gentlemen, that exactly the transport equivalent is trying to reduce the cost of transporting citizens and products to the greatest possible extent and to equilibrium it with the cost of transporting citizens, passengers and products to land. This is really a very important measure and people will see it. You know, sometimes man easily on the altar of destiny self-determination in order to defend things that they do not stand. The world will see it when it is implemented and applied respite, not in the future. Then we will see what he will say about you who have never implemented it and what he will say about us who are now applying it under the very specific restrictive budgetary conditions. Article 2: The source of funding is the Public Investment Programme, sixty million for the six months that comes and hundred and fifty million for the following year, where the programme will be extended to all the islands of the country, thus implementing Article 101 of the Constitution for the first time. That's the truth, and that's the reality. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, you will be asked to apologise for what you have done for those who have been ministers and governments in order to ensure that the European Union is given a specific programme for the implementation and implementation of the Territorial Cohesion Programme, for which, many times in European declarations and conditions, there have been specific references, as has been in the Amsterdam Treaty for some twenty years now. So, in cooperation with the regional authorities of Greece, the four regional directors of the purely island regions of the country, we activated the twenty-three regional directors of the purely island regions of Europe, the eleven ministers of the countries to which these regions belong, as well as our MEPs, whom we called on the permanent delegation and asked them to act on these issues. All these efforts are converging to reach the Valletta Summit of Transport and Maritime Ministers and reach a unanimous decision. And so now we are pressing the Commission to have a specific programme, which will come to button with this programme to support precisely island policy. These are the policies. We went to the district headquarters. The Greek district officials know that. He had never been a Greek Minister there to activate the regional directors of the European Union. These are our initiatives and our efforts. As I said, there is also FRONTEX. Because for ten years Greece has been living an unequal treatment compared to other countries, claiming precisely the right to equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proceeded with these provisions in setting up an Observatory in Article 6. In fact, there is an opportunity to monitor the implementation of these measures, so that we can have a real picture of whether they really touch and serve the citizens of our islands. In Article 9, we give three years. In this period, the implementation of this programme will also show positive and weaknesses, so that we can see exactly how we can cure any weaknesses, in order to make the programme more useful and useful to the citizens. With Article 12, we establish the academy in Kalymnos, on an island that you all know how it is linked to shipping. That's not because the light came to our minds. As you have said, and you have claimed, this academy is a request for many years. Yes, but you forgot or did it deliberately - as you often do - that you must first apologize and say why you do not. And that government comes and that's not all it does. There was an abandoned naval training. We've been alarming for the last three years. I don't want to say names now and say Ministers you never went to schools. There were maritime ministers, not to say MPs, who were in districts with schools, who had never been to maritime education schools. And you come to this step and you speak and cry! We joined regional programmes of EUR 10.5 million for equipment. You abolished the two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. We set up a hundred and twenty seats and got two hundred eighty-eighth-time teachers to meet the needs. We assigned the Foundation "Evgenides" to the preparation of the timetable, so that we can have a state-of-the-art program that meets the needs of the shipping pod. Let me tell you what was going on with the ferry - it's all weeping together - where the money for the arid airline was going, and where did the money go for the famous arid lines, and what happened in the Aegean all these years, how was the system working and who were serving? We dared to conflict with interests and the Communist Party would come and tell us that we are shaking the shipowners. Did you take "VITSENJOS KORNAROS" off the line that was 30 years old? Did you implement the provisions on workers' rights in shipping? You've been here for so long and you've been telling us easy talk? Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that these measures complete the obligation of the state to the island country. Policies must continue, strengthen, so that we can really limit the phenomena of social and economic exclusion felt by islanders. But when you address us for the islands you have to be quite prepared because we are a political leadership that we have visited the vast majority of the islands to look closely at the problems and respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u188	Minister, just know you've reached eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you want me to tell you what's going on with the ports of the country? I think you'll feel very difficult. First of all, I would like to tell you about RAS, the competent body which approved port studies. You did not have all these years a representative of the shipowners' association, i.e. the people who put ships in ports. This is how you ruled the country, that way! That's the truth. Come on, take the word and disprove me for what I'm saying. Do you know how the port of Santorini operates at the heart of global tourism? In 2010, he was received. Same in Ikaria. Same to Strate's. Ports that were paid with the Greek people's money. And you come here and say, "What is this government doing?" It would take a little self-criticistic and a little brave, to say, "we didn't do that, that, the other one. We did not bring this measure and it was our fault." Say it. One to go out and say it. Wasn't it your fault? Why don't you say it? Why are you telling us that tomorrow you'll make it better? And why didn't you do it so far? Go out and say it bravely. To say, "Yes, we were wrong. We left it to unclaimed." That is how politics gets content and substance. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that those who do not vote for this legislative effort, I am sure that very soon, as soon as the people understand what it means to him, to his life, you will understand that you are making a very big mistake in the altar of a petty, political logic, which has not even been brave enough to recognise why it has not been done so far and which does not have the courage to say 'yes, well, even as a start, as a new substantial attempt, manifests interest in a region'. I accept from the preamble that everyone, in their own way, has or should have the same interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u191	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo. What do you want? What's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like the floor for two minutes, as I have by the Rules of Procedure the right after the speech of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u193	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u194	In my first speech, Mr President, I made a reference to general political issues in response to what Mr Kourublis said in the relevant Standing Committee. After his speech now, I wouldn't have anything to add. He said what he had to say about his draft law. We and Mr Carras have shown in an exemplary way how a serious opposition should be treated. However, I take the floor to say to him: All good things that you say and concern your own work. You doubt, of course, but this is a matter of another kind of dialogue. What do you want with references to the past, at least to our political area, before PASOK? What do you want with the reports? What do you want with the comparison? Why are you doing this? To have this kind of controversy in the House? Is it productive? Why should I remind you now that we, as a political site, are the ones who did the University of the Aegean? What are we going to offer in the debate today in the House? OkANA? The hospitals? The interconnection of the islands of the so-called barren line from both the air and the ships? So why does a representative of our political area have to tell you? Why are you causing these comparisons, causing common sense? You need them, I guess. You need to claim that you have lost your memory to have something to say. I told you in my first speech that as long as we are here, such hollow words won't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading a passage from the heart of the explanatory statement, which I believe reflects the ratio of the law that we are discussing. ‘The proposed legislation is the practical proof of a new, anthropcentric approach to islands, which must not form terms of minority, but of usable peculiarity.’ Transport equivalent is a good start with many symbolisms, supplemented by positive steps taken in other areas such as health. It is for this reason that it is bad to describe as an 'benefit'. The systematic island policy as a matter of urgency in a country has proved to be sea and island in the end that there was no - the systematic island policy, I repeat - not even as an arrest. There were words. After the harmful loss of the reduced VAT it proved that "the king was naked". So, then, the equivalent, which is introduced by the bill under discussion, not as a counterweight to the loss of VAT, which we will always mention at every opportunity, apart from being - the equivalent I mean - a necessary step, we consider that it is only the beginning of the application of the constitutional requirement of Articles 101(4), in conjunction with Article 106(1). It is a positive step towards drawing up and planning an integrated island policy. Ladies and gentlemen, islandism is not an ideology, nor a motto, nor a metaphysical one, nor a search for additional rights. It is a policy that comes to settle the needs created by geography and in this sense does not violate equality as were some former people who in the 2001 constitutional review had put it under the relevant article in the form of an interpretative statement. Fortunately, 2008 became an article, i.e. 101, but somewhat imperfectly, lex imperfecta, since its ignorance has no substantial effect. Should we look at it again and re-print it with the necessary completeness ahead of the ongoing debate on the constitutional revision? The bill hopes that it will be the beginning of a serious course for island policy, which is being prepared and necessary to move on. Isle of Manchester and Isle of Manchester. I would say 'although, it moves!' This important symbolism, apart from the substance of the transport equivalent, let us remain, let us keep it. It is important to realise that the crises - and the criticism - are still being made on the text that exists and that someone created it, prepared it, inspired it and introduced it, and we are now discussing it. It's the creative base. Let's all build on it together. We can. I'm closing up with a reminder. Although she may be annoying, we have to do her in a quiet way. In August 2015, the joint legislator, the parliament, voted to abolish the reduced rate of VAT on the islands, two hundred or two hundred and twenty-three MPs, subject, the joint legislator, in the forced circumstances. This law abolished the reduced rate of VAT in August 2015. What has since become the subject of arrogance and controversy has been its local expansion per group of islands. This must be understood by anyone who is following us, for the completeness of the debate and for there to be no mistaken impression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. The Minister has the floor, who wants to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u198	In fact, we must say which amendments are accepted, Mr President. Parliamentary amendments Nos 1633 and 48, by Mr Maniou, 'Amendments to Rule 90 of Law 4504/2017' are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u199	If you're kind enough to tell us the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u200	I said that the amendment under general number 1633 and a specialist number 48 is accepted. As for the rest, one was not accepted and the other was accepted in committee procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u201	The amendment we tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u202	It was not accepted in committees, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u203	I would ask whether it will be accepted in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u204	Did you redo it? He hasn't been reinstated. It cannot be accepted, Mr Athanasios, and I will tell you what reasons in my speech. Amendment No 1629, and Mr Stathakis's special number 44, is accepted. Amendment No 1630, and Amendment No 45, is an amendment designed to facilitate the reimbursement of the sums paid by the ferry companies and, in essence, to align it with the regulations on payment which exist for the other ministries, on the obligations of the public. It is therefore an amendment that our Ministry brings and is obviously accepted. Amendment No 1631 and Amendment No 46, by Mrs Ahtsoglou and others, is accepted. Amendment No 1632 is also accepted and specific No 47 is included. The other two amendments, Nos 1626/4 and 1628/43, have already been incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u206	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u207	Minister, we have raised a matter for Crete. Do you have any answers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u208	You can answer your speech, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u209	I will respond to my speech, but since you put it this is a matter that has to do with the regulations of the European Union. We will also put it in the European Union because it concerns the financing of the small islands and within the meaning of the definitions of the European Union, small islands are the islands with less than five hundred thousand inhabitants. Crete is considered a big island. Exemption should be granted. We'll investigate it. In any case, the application is pilot at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one would expect all the political forces to agree that not only should this bill be tabled, but we should also hurry to implement it, that is, the transport equivalent to our islands. This, unfortunately, does not seem to be possible. We are the country with a large island size on its territory, about 1/6, and therefore the strategies to address these particularities are particularly important because they ultimately concern the whole of the domestic development and social model. It is of great importance both in terms of the economic development of the islands and in terms of their social organisation. At the same time, it has a significant imprint on the national development model as well as on the modernisation of public organisation and public administration. In this effort, therefore, to eliminate disparities in development and optimise communication, two are decisive interventions in this perspective. Both are determined by a critical concept, the interconnection. It concerns, firstly, energy and, secondly, transport. As far as energy is concerned, we want cheaper energy and energy self-sufficiency, but also environmental upgrading through an interconnection that has not been made in the past. As far as transport is concerned, we want cheaper and more quality transport, both for products and for humans. You will allow me to note that for both of these sections the state-of-the-art treatment has been weak, inadequate and rather customer-friendly. Eventually he was always out of season. However, the main thing was that it maintained growth inequality and social exclusion on our islands. On the question of energy for tens of years it has maintained the expensive, uneco-economic and anachronistic production of electricity from diesel internal combustion engines, which has made it expensive and inaccessible for both the islands and the Greek economy. Tens of billions of euros were lost, which would be useful for the productive reconstruction of both the islands and the country, which we have changed and changed quickly and effectively, with the rapid interconnection of Crete and the Cyclades, which is already being implemented, but also through the delegation of new tools to energy issues, such as energy communities, RES and others. The second concerns this bill, which is equally important, namely transport, goods and people. There was an earlier subsidy - the only tool in this direction - of the barren lines, a measure that was far from the real economy of the islands but also the productive needs of the islands, as it only supported a reasonable customerity. The transport equivalent is an exemplary measure to support islands. It comes to cover the difference in the increased transport costs to and from the islands due to their maritime exclusion from the inland. We are really interested in this, and it is also the economic activity as a whole and the reduction in the transport costs of islands and goods. In short, it could be said that insularity defines isolation and regionality, secondly, the small size, thirdly, the peculiar and fragile natural environment, fourthly, the special cultural and experiential identity of the landscape. The island is by definition a geographically isolated area because of the sea, which surrounds the island and clearly has limited development potential. The island area is at the same time fragmented and the complementarity between the islands of the same complex in terms of both services and resource utilization is not understood. The islands are vulnerable ecosystems, particularly exposed to natural phenomena and uncontrolled environmental influences. I have enough to say about our islands, but our rapporteur has done so in a much better way, so I will leave them and will not be extended. I'm coming to this. So since 2016, when we started processing the issues of island policy by our government and our Prime Minister announced the integrated island policy, the Ministry of Island Policy was founded and the Government began to implement a number of measures to fill the huge gap that existed in this matter. Today, of course, we are still very far behind and a great deal needs to be done, because we also need specific areas and actions and also additional provisions in the direction of developing regional, island consciousness. The transport equivalent is therefore precisely part of this policy of island policy, and it is particularly important because it comes to correct disparities in transport and therefore, in regional balancing and in island development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is therefore foreseen in our bill where and when it will be implemented, how it will be financed, who are the beneficiaries and does not set specific income criteria. Development and productive reconstruction is our priority and we promote it throughout the country. The removal of regional inequalities and social exclusion takes a step forward and is part of our reform effort for a fairer and prosperous society as a whole, as well as for islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an important step towards recognition in the field of islands is the draft law we are debating today on the equivalent of transport, which is an institutional section for both the inhabitants of the islands, the islands and the islands, but also for entrepreneurs. Insularity is the specialization of any government policy on the islands, and is provided for in our Constitution, in particular in Article 101, where it states: "The joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are obliged to take into account the particular conditions of island and mountain regions, while ensuring their development". Finally, ladies and gentlemen, after decades of the Greek state has introduced the transport equivalent, which is a constant demand, a demand for island residents and entrepreneurs. In particular, the transport equivalent relates to the alignment of the transport costs of passengers and goods on the islands at the cost of land transport. Although our country, as we know, has around six thousand islands from which tens of four have been inhabited for decades, a serious measure, such as the transport equivalent, has not been implemented. Even since 1981, when our country entered the EEC, no one has been interested in special measures for our islands, such as other countries in Europe, Denmark, Ireland, Great Britain, which have enjoyed privileges and special conditions for adapting islands. The Treaty of Maastricht was the same in 1992 and later in the Treaty of Amsterdam. The introduction of the transport equivalent creates significant development opportunities for our islands, small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. For the inhabitants of the islands of independent income, which cease to be regarded as second-class citizens, the transport equivalent relates to the cost of free-line ticket, not only of the barren. This is a bold and innovative reform, an essentially island policy that will be implemented pilotly from 1 July 2018 on forty nine of our islands, and will be fully operational as of 1st of next year 2019. The philosophy of the measure is the right of the island and businessman, who is on the islands to enjoy transport services at the same cost as the inhabitants of Athens and other areas of the rest of Greece. For the first time on such an extent, this measure applies throughout Europe. The General Secretariat of the Aegean Islands and the Island Policy will be responsible for the functioning of the system, while working with the Ministry of Digital Policy for the construction of the electronic platform, a simple and easy-to-use platform for all islands and for all small and medium-sized islands, so that the inhabitants, traders of the islands can easily enjoy the benefits of this measure, while the General Secretariat for Consumers will be responsible for monitoring prices and products after the implementation of this measure. Synergy in itself makes the measure of transport equivalent less bureaucratic for all the citizens of the islands. In other words, this is a globe of government coordination and open cooperation on the reverse of the phenomena of fragmentation from which the public administration was affected, especially in the area of digital policy. The subsidisation of enterprises through transport equivalent is an important policy, especially for islands characterised by primary and secondary production. They're the productive islands. I mention Lesvos, Samos, Naxos and others. With the equivalent of transport they will cease to have a competitive burden on transport costs, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises operating on these islands. The same logic will apply to the transport of fuel to the islands. For the subsidisation of fuel companies from the study, what costs have been incurred, which one has to pay for a transfer to mainland Greece from the point of departure to the point of arrival. The transport equivalent grants the island businessman himself, not the shipping company, as we have heard, or the transport in the difference in the costs involved in the shipping handling of the products for the same distance. A word about the reduced VAT on the islands. The country benefited about EUR 85,000 from the abolition of reduced VAT rates. With the transport equivalent, the islands will be subsidised from the first year of 2019, at least 150,000 000. I repeat something that the Minister has said, but we must say it: 24% of VAT has been in force until now in transport. The proposed legislation, therefore, is the practical proof of an anthropocentric approach to islands, which must not shape terms of minority, but of the use of specificity. It is time, then, for our islanders to feel equal citizens and to regain the opportunities they themselves deserve from the Greek state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Mr Manolakos Parliamentary Representative for the Community for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u215	It may be that the legislation on the transport equivalent of the Ministry of Shipping is in the form of an emergency, but, as we say, the amendments from the other ministries have always been ready. He's going to make a plan. And we ask: Why should they be voted on now? I don't think they have a few emergency characters. They could come to other bills, say that of the Ministry of Labour's S.H.I.E.L.D., that's ready and submitted, or that's what's on the HEME. A few days ago we had a bill from the Ministry of the Environment, and we were told by Mr Stathakis that he would bring them. But he preferred the urgent bill. You are in a hurry to the implementation of your anti-lingual class policy. What about this transport equivalent? What do you promote camouflage? The strengthening of the arm's length capital. It is not enough for all the governments, the many tax exemptions, the arbitrary wages of seafarers you have passed and voted on with anti-grass legislation. So the love of all of you, who said, Mr Kurubli, to the shipowners, is not hidden. You're kneeling and implementing what you're asked for above. After all, your class policy seems everywhere. From the tax raid and attack on workers' rights and incomes, the seizures in the auctions until yesterday's floods in Mandra Attica. We have mourned eight months ago tens of dead. The area remains unprotected to the strong weather phenomena and the inhabitants continue to live with fear and anxiety. None of the anti-military works have even begun. And otherwise it is also challenging to get out of the region and say: "We found the guilty. It is the fault of climate change.’ Mercy! Your development, which is propagandad with various fissures, does not prioritise the people's needs, but only the profits of capital. And that's confirmed every day. You do the same with the oil tanks in Perama and Drapetsona. You allow them to operate on life leave while they had to be transferred. And you assured them with the recent multi-brand plan at the expense of the people's health. Why? To win the groups. But you are fast as far as the needs of capital are concerned. Workers, especially when they strike a strike for their right, in their fast track courts, as happened with the 'COSCO' workers' association, to illegally get their strikes out, however, with your own legislation. And then you complain that you were supposed to be unfairly accused of supporting the capital and that your attitude is sad. That is why you are trying to create a candid line with the other urban parties and especially with New Democracy, with which you have the same strategy. And she's trying - because you've grabbed her mouth bite - to start by voting against your bills, though she agrees with them. And, of course, that seems when it votes for almost all the articles. But can I tell you something? They've taken you as a hammer at this point, which justifies the popular wisdom that says "a village that seems like, a collusion doesn't want". This does not mean that shipowners can at any time increase as long as they want the tickets and freight fares, above the price of returning the freight equivalent, the frequency and duration of the services, but you also bring an amendment on the subject, as you say, grants from the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy to beneficiaries for the execution of services contracted by public service contracts. You are subsidising funding, 'hot' money to the shipowners for the barren lines, when all of you have since 2001, to date, all governments, have smashed the shipowners with over 1,200,000 euros, that is, half UNPHIA. There they go, Mr Kurubli, people's money from the tax and tax raid of your governments and yours. But you have a difference. You have a proletarian wrapping in the employees' wages, so what? Do they pocket subsidies for barren lines and expensive tickets and not even pay the landlords' cut-off wages? And do you need to make that clear with the amendment? Well, not the self-evident thing, huh? Of course, we are voting against it. And please tell us, because we are voting against your legislative felonies, people learning about it. In and out of the House we defend popular interests, but with what you systematically do, use workers and blackmail your anti-grassroots policies, mercy! Because you are doing the same with the amendment of the EGMM. Use the workers to promote the contraction of HEME. In fact, you call it 'new EGME' in the amendment. Really, what's that? You don't confess. What is the new IGM that you refer to in the amendment? There are decisions by the Board of Directors of the IGM concerning the operational plan, with an IGM with two hundred employees - when the previous administration anticipated five hundred organic positions - which undermines mining research, delivers fillets to the mining monopolies, provides for work assignments to third parties, private and labour relations of the globe. Or even, why, despite the body of positive appeals, as well as the Ice Branch, do you not pay the retireds of HOME whatever you owe and force them to compromise only 10% of all debts? That's if it's a towel. We will give you the minutes and the announcement of the U.S. Pensioners' Union of the former FMD officials. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are voting against this paragraph. We are voting in favour of the first paragraph on the register and extension. In general, we will say'representations' in this particular amendment. As much as you're trying to show that the islanders were second-class and now with the transport equivalent they become first-class, what am I supposed to say? He's gonna laugh, too! And let us continue to blame the JRC for not voting for your harsh policy. The only thing is that workers in the islands suffer from anti-Flanders policy, and the government is trying to cultivate delusionality, presenting virtual reality through so-called development conferences, or with this transport equivalent bill, with which you are attempting to make black white. Insularity strengthens, you say. And you're grading it into all the falls. In fact, the substance, that is, the calculation of the transport equivalent does not exist in the bill. It's hidden through ministerial decisions that will come out. And you ask us to authorize, vote and approve them! You have them ready. You keep them secret. You do not, of course, reveal the content. And what do you want? You're asking for a white check. We answer: We don't trust you. You're the mockery and the improperness you've brought them into science. Your tax policy breaks bones. The increase in VAT forms a tragic situation for the workers, the poor farmers, the self-employed on the islands. By car the choice of the smallest evil, you seek to reconcile the workers accurately, which is fading because of the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the islands, with the expensive ferry tickets, with the exclusion that for days they have been facing - especially the winter season - the small islands, with extermination tax cuts, reductions in wages, pensions etc. Here, until the pensions for widows have been abolished, you have promoted. In fact, the proceeds from tax fraud results in shipowners' pockets, in the context of the fair growth that the government is advertising. However, what we want to stress is that PPP schemes, local and regional authorities, will arise from the exterior competition of business groups that dominate maritime transport. This will result in a further deterioration of shipping, especially for the remote islands, after displacement of these companies from the coastline, in order to obtain all the financing of the transport equivalent for the monopolies. We also consider it unacceptable that the procedure for the self-evidence that should exist, that is to say, fuel adequacy on the ships of the port House. The unacceptable what is it? That every six months a piece of legislation is coming on such a matter that should be solved. That's all you give the shipowners. Can you not ensure that porters have fixed and fixed oil in the performance of their jobs? In conclusion, we call on the working - people's layers of the islands to respond to the anti-grassroots policy and the stifling of the government by now strengthening their struggle, in accordance with the framework of requests from the Isles' Committees, as developed by our rapporteur. Of course, the struggle for today should be linked to final solutions, with a change of order in power. For us, only with the labour power and the socialisation of all major businesses, the concentrated means of production, the central design, can open up the path that will serve the needs of the people and not the interests of the monopolies. Only in this way can modern, safe and cheap ferry transport be ensured for all the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. After Mr. Dritsa, whom I will give the floor, Mrs. Karakostas, Mr. Spassakis, Mr. Bukoros, Mr. Pavlides, Mr. Meikopoulou as speakers and Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Xydakis as Parliamentary Representatives from New Democracy and SYRIZA respectively are followed. Then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Santorinios, will be closed. Here, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I don't feel very comfortable, because with Mrs Manolakou I have relationships of appreciation, but also with all the Members of the JRC. But I really don't understand. This description means leaving this government and coming another one. That's all that means. Think about it and address both society and workers with this weaponry. Now, whether there was from the first memorandum of cruel, prerequisite for reducing organic compositions in the coastline, and now there is no, it is vaporized, there is nowhere, it is small, God did it! Poseidon did it! When this government took over in 2015, routes to the port of Piraeus and most of the routes to Ai-Stratis, Limnos, were not here and there because the unpaid for three and a half years. She was in a terrible situation. This government has overrun a question of private differences worldwide by making it a matter of public interest and by taking their money. This is philosophical and anti-government policy! I can list a lot more. I can say exactly about the legacy that if the workers are not paid, they don't leave the ship, they don't take a flight. It's a recent legacy, ours, as well as many others. A New Democracy government would do that! However, what I would like to say on this occasion, and because these days are shaped and cultivated, is the following: let the forces of philosophicalism and corruption dare to attempt the fall of this government. We will be very pleased if they do so in the ways they work and get the answer from the Greek society itself. So much so that government has broken down that it has been constantly solving problems for decades, 20 years, 30 years, forty years! It comes and solves this collapsed government! One of them is the transport equivalent. It was a programme commitment by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, a programme of the coalition previously, but also by SYRIZA in recent years. She's a worked-out, worked-out in a lot of different ways. The circumstances had to grow and now a government comes and gives a transport equivalent model. Now, how do shipowners and shipowners benefit from this, I don't understand. In any case, however, it is precisely part of a plan to resolve or improve regional disparities. I mean, it's strategic. That is why, for a period of six months, from 1-1 to 2019 more permanent and more extensively, where for the first time an intervention operation in the field of island policy shows that island policy cannot be carried out alone - as, of course, for the Aegean islands, since there are also islands in the Ionian Sea, there are Sporades, there are Saronics, Kythira and Antikythera, there are also Thassos, all the islands. That's a first incision. It is precisely the equivalent of transport, because it is a potential development policy measure to tackle regional inequalities, that is to say it is still going down the road, because now it is the islands' inhabitants, the workers on the islands and the businesses on the islands. For its development perspective, however, some time should also mature to include the visitors of the islands, because this is exactly how regional inequality is reduced in relation to the terrestrial regions. This obviously cannot be entrusted to the Public Investment Programme and the State Budget, because one and the other have limits and one cannot say "father air" what one wants. But that is why it is a complex issue, which is why it is an open issue for the future, and that is why the three-year period is too important to draw conclusions and take advantage of them. In other words, it is a studied text and indeed the Minister, Panagiotis Kourublis, and the Deputy Minister for Insularity, Nektarios Santorinios, but also the Secretary-General of the Aegean, Mr Giannelis and many others, the University of the Aegean, if you like, the island MPs of SYRIZA, who took the lead in studying and working out all these issues with the Ministry, the university, chambers, clubs, mayors in all these areas. I shall finish, Mr President. It is futuristic to make a regular diversion with regard to the abolition of reduced VAT. That's a very serious issue, but to God! For this government Mr. Koutsoukos said: "But what do you mind? It is 78 million.’ Oh, of course! If that were the case, we would of course find a solution, as we now find at 60 or 150 from 1st of year to year. Mr. Koutsukos answers himself. One of the hardest doctrines of lenders was their refusal to accept exceptions to VAT. Why? What was the argument? That they did not accept that the reduction in VAT would also bring about a reduction in prices in terms of experience from all previous years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In 2011, super-third-party reservations on ferry tickets - 8% to 12% reduction - were abolished on the grounds that this would reduce fares for both freight and passengers and for all. While they were useful reservations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like, you'd better finish up. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u219	I shall conclude, Mr President. They were useful reservations. One of them was for the maintenance of a fund in the case of shipwrecks, in the event of great damage to the islands and all of them. Very important fund. These were repealed with this argument. Less than three months the price reduction has taken place, ladies and gentlemen. They returned with the argument that the price of fuel increased at the same and above levels. It's more complex, more complicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u221	This argument was raised by the finance ministers and other ministers not only for'super-thirds', but also for many other things. It was one of the issues on which the negotiation lasted six months and you were all shouting because the negotiations are not closing and the economy is falling apart and the government is falling apart and that the government is incapable of doing all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u223	Such other things have made us insist that we keep this negotiation as hard as possible. The issue of VAT was one of the hardest issues in this confrontation. And obviously by studying, seriously, the successes that this government achieves, this will in fact be in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u225	I'm done, Mr. President. My last sentence is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u226	But you've reached ten minutes. You've doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u227	I'm telling you, this is my last sentence. It is precisely the issue of insular VAT that the government's processed intervention can only become a realistic reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u228	Mrs Karakosta will now take the floor. Then Mr. Prison will speak. Mr Katsikis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, will be intervened. And we'll keep up with the list. You have the floor, Mrs Caracosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u229	Good evening to all colleagues and colleagues who are here today. I really want to say this. I understand, for example, the difficult position of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios. I followed all the committees and understood that it was really difficult to say not in this bill, where when Mrs Kalogeros, the North Aegean Region, said this amazing "take the law back, that is, take any beneficial provision there is here and bring only VAT back" was forced by Mr Athanasios to justify the matter somehow and say "regardless of VAT and other".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u230	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u231	So he called it mot a mot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u232	Then Mrs Kalogeru did not listen and reiterated in her second position exactly the same phrase. Mr Athanasios, of course, I understand that he fully agrees with the bill. Because it is not possible to offer subsidised tickets to the inhabitants of the islands, to give money to small and medium-sized enterprises for aid to the transport sector, on the subject of the equivalent - which are extremely important - which have already been set up, calculated in relation to land transport - and to say no. You're saying yes to that and you're demanding another ten. But you do not say 'no' in any way in this case. As I really do not understand the position of the JRC, as our colleague Thodoris Dritsas said earlier. So we expect a working government - I do not know exactly how it was said - in order for the people to come to power with the Communist Party of Greece in order to give this money, that is, 60 million in this semester and 150 million more from time and then to a pilot project? That's what we're talking about. We are talking about a pilot project that, if it really succeeds in the time we give it, they say that from 1-12019 it will go to all the islands except Crete, Evia and Lefkada. It's very simple things. They say, ladies and gentlemen, that this will go to the shipowners. And the bill comes and says that this money comes into the bank of the island's resident with a code number. He's clarifying it. I would stress this because Mr Athanasios asked the committees a few questions on how it will be done technically. They're going into a bank. There is now a second question for small and medium-sized enterprises. Is that going to come out to the civilians? This is another issue, colleagues and colleagues. It's a matter of control. That's what we're up to. Why should we never forget that the reduced VAT did not come out to the public. When you went to the islands while they had reduced VAT, the citizens didn't come out, they always made the transport equivalent. In other words, the cargo was taken out and added to the products sold on the island. That's the reality. We don't know her? We're hiding her? So here we have to think. I would like to say that in committees, apart from the North Aegean Region, everyone was positive, even the representative of Mr Patulis. Think, even him. They may have completed two corrections, some of them have been taken into account by the Minister. It's important that the common sense was in favor. It was a great pleasure to thank the teacher's representative for this bill, because they are working people and they know very well how favoured this reduced ticket is. This is not just about teachers, it refers to doctors who need our islands so much, it refers to all public services, not to mention them and I lose time, that is to say, those procedures that people with a wage so difficult to move to see their families or their families were being taken there. It's a very positive bill we always say it's pilot. You know? You don't want to object. Why? Because after the signing of 21 June and after August you know that they open up the margins for this government to constantly bring positive bills and fill out the puzzle of its promises in society. So we will sooner or later actually come to complete all the promises we have made to this society and really to correct things that have been forty years, badly lying, neither did you, nor did you correct them, but I can say that you have actually brought us a huge loan, which is our noose in the neck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor. Immediately after Mr. Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, you are enjoying the impressions of the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands from next week to the vote on the transport equivalent. You have tried to use gold dust with combs, but the impact on local economies of the islands on the abolition of reduced VAT is not compensated for by transport equivalent. Why, then, do you not reinstate the reduced VAT on all the Aegean islands after we came out of the memos? Your co-pilot Panos Kammenos since June 2015 has ruptured his clothes through social media, but also with statements on television shows of that period, that it is unnegotiable for ANELs to maintain low VAT on the islands. Now what's he doing, Mr. Katsiki? In fact, in May 2016, he described as unconstitutional and criminal the increase in VAT on the islands. We're still waiting for him to resign, but it looks like he made the heart of the stone and preferred the honey of the chair. The irony is that you are talking today about transport equivalents, you who have deported the islands and filled the problems and have not defended them, as you should, by guarding our maritime borders, as foreseen by the conditions that had been signed. Are you interested in Samothraki, which you have included among the islands that will apply the transport equivalent, you who left the island of Niki with a ship almost half the summer season? We proposed the new sea Egnatia with the connection of Alexandroupolis to Mytilini via Samothrace and Limnos, and you provided only one route per week and only in the summer months. We are not only concerned about the transfer of persons, Minister, we are also interested in transferring things. We also do not only want tourists to serve, we want to serve our productive products, which must be made available to our vital place, which is the sea. Can you not understand that this line is unsustainable with one route per week and only for three months? If we give you a boat, will you make it available on this line? Who is this shipowner, who will make this investment, just for one route per week and only for three months per year? The rest of the time - he'll ask you where he's going to make it available? I also told you in the debate on the topical and urgent question on this issue last November. And all this because? Because it is an island that tries to stand on its feet, after the great natural disasters suffered last September, due to extreme weather conditions. Here I would like to stress the discontent and disappointment on the part of the inhabitants of the island that it was not included among the five islands that maintained the reduced VAT by 1 July. On the other hand, I am surprised to see another draft law by the Ministry of Shipping not providing for the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis and its existing schools. Minister, you have visited our county recently in April. You came to Alexandroupolis too. Again, you promised to be a Port Academy in the capital of Evros. In fact, you have spoken of your commitment and commitment to the Prime Minister. Minister, we're full of words. You did the same in May 2015, as Minister of Education at the Twin-eye in terms of the self-sufficiency and autonomy of the local hospital. Unfortunately, you left there, this work remained unfulfilled and a dream of the inhabitants. Unfortunately, we are pushing and calling on the Minister to come here to plenary, to answer us when he will give us the self-interest and autonomy of the hospital, which is of interest to all the residents and we do not yet have your own decision. For this reason, as far as the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis is concerned, you also signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Democrat University. Only this cooperation guarantees the high level of the Port Academy. Synergies with the Democritus University can contribute to the training of students at the academy there once it is decided. And I want you to know - and if you know well - that we have two central ports in Alexandroupolis and Kavala. We have two port departments in Samothraki and Porto Lagos. We have executives, who are currently in the reserve through their repatriation. And I believe that in teaching staff, because this is the greatest argument of your staff, there will be no lecturers, no teachers. I would like to emphasise that we have the best level of education. We have sea borders, we have islands, we have river borders, we have a deterrent barrier, and this school can also be a post-training centre for port authorities of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u236	I would like to remind you, Minister, that the Municipality of Alexandroupolis has granted an area of 148 acres to the best area in Alexandroupolis, near the sea and between two ports of the centre of Alexandroupolis and that of the region of Macris. In fact, even if those facilities and infrastructures are built, the temporary ones have also been found to accommodate the needs of the academy. You said last April in a joint interview, as I said, with the Mayor of Alexandroupolis, that no matter how much pressure they are exerted, you and your government will decide to set up this school, the Port Academy and the existing schools in Alexandroupolis. What are the problems that have arisen? To discuss them and see what solutions we can find. Both in my speech last November in a bill from the Ministry of Shipping and in the debate on the topical question, I stressed the multi-level role.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Purchass, please, finish it up. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u238	Also, there can be productive and efficient synergies with police schools, in addition to the International Postgraduate Centre of Studies and with the Komotini Police Schools, the Twins and Xanthi, if they do well for police use. An important parameter for the creation of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis is the fact that we have the best area of education. So it is a glorious field, Minister. No excuse is right on your part. All it takes is political will. You can prove this until the vote of this law is completed. However, since you have no political will on this issue that we have highlighted and claimed for years now, we are voting against the law in principle and we are once again disappointed as Hebrews and as Thracemen from the present government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u240	Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u241	I would like to reply to the reports by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u242	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Prussaki, I've been expecting a more eminent man, but you've been taken away from this New Democracy chat and you're saying things now. They hear you in Alexandroupolis, the Mayor of Alexandroupolis hears you. But it says Mayor Alexandroupolis about the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u244	We're begging you to do something positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Prison, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u246	How many years has the Municipality of Alexandroupolis claimed the extent, and what have you, Mr. Publicschaki, been doing for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u247	Three and a half years you've been ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u248	How many years has this government claimed the extent to which we have granted it, Mr Prussakis? Thirty years, and this government came to do it and dare, and you come here with courage? Who created the problem at the Dumos Hospital, Mr. Treasury? Did this government create it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u249	Your former government in 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u250	Come on, let's not open a dialogue. Mr. Pilgrim...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u251	This government was subject to the Dubot Hospital at Alexandroupolis Hospital. Where were you, the captain of Alexandroupolis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u252	Minister, it's understandable what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u253	So now you're talking about the islands. You want me to tell you what part you've been playing all these years, who was served by the barren lines and who was struggling with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u254	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u255	So if you want to open this conversation, let's open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u256	Say, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u257	We don't have to open a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u258	So sometimes silence is gold. Will you now mention your interest in Samothraki? I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Minister. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apologise to you today because I have not been able to carry out my parliamentary duties in full as a parliamentary representative of this bill, because I have had to face an attack on malicious elements, a fortunately failed attempt to invade my political office, as was the statement justifying this masturbation and, in my view, terrorist action.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u261	Was it about the apostasy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u262	As I have said, there has been a disgraceful reproduction of the notices of previous terrorist organisations, as reminded of the long text accompanying it, a text of responsibility on the part of some people for the identity of whom - as you are asking, ladies and gentlemen - I am personally concerned and questioning. So when I have those facts that will be able to answer your question, that is, from whom, then I am glad to have that information at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u263	It has never been held responsible by “Ruvikon”.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Buquarre, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u265	Of course, Mr. Bukouros can make Hercules Poirot right now and someone else on Agathatha Christie. However, because my responsibility in this personal field is particularly heavy on me, in this personal attack, do a little patience to see if it is really the "Rubicon" and if this organization had learned so well from the schools that had been attending. Unfortunately neither responsibility was successful, nor the actions which we have fortunately avoided, avoiding the worst. Finishing this introduction to the incident I have faced, ladies and gentlemen, and getting to the point of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u266	Obviously there is understanding from all the sides of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. I have already been informed that you are condemning this type of violence, as we always condemn it, from wherever it comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u268	Any form of violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, every form of violence. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u270	But here is a collectiveity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u271	All right, Mr. Fisherman. Let me have my personal opinion until the investigations prove the substance of my suspicions or your word is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u272	They're progressively children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u273	Go on, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u274	With regard to the bill, the equivalent of transport is the measure that actually comes to cover the difference in the increased transport costs to and from the islands, the measure which will equate the imbalances observed between the inhabitants of the mainland and the island. That's what we recommend, nothing more, nothing less. This bill, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is part of an island policy. For the first time, it is foreseen where and when the transport equivalent will be applied, how it will be financed and for which beneficiaries. Among the beneficiaries of the island cost compensation are temporary assistants and orthodox teachers, doctors who are responsible for rural services - and medical staff, as well as recipients who have their head office in the municipalities of implementation of the programme, and the measure also applies to foreigners in the islands who have a valid residence permit. The implementation begins pilotly from 1 July in total in forty nine islands, including the northern and eastern Aegean, four Cyclades islands and three Ionian islands, in order to extend the year to the whole island, with the exception of Evia, Crete and Lefkada. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation, which today comes to a vote in the House, responds to the chronic problems of the remote, isolated transport islands in the country. It concerns the cost of transporting goods and passengers. The philosophy of the transport equivalent for islanders and goods to and from the islands is that of the inhabitants of Greece enjoying prices in products and transports the same as those of the mainland through cost subsidies. If, for example, a person pays a 20 euro ticket for a bus trip to a town in the mainland and an islander to travel the same distance, pays 25 euros, then he will get the additional 5 euros that constitute the difference. No one claimed that in the draft law being passed we claim the universal treatment of all the problems of the island country. We are, however, in favour of the political initiative, of the will and determination that we have shown in response to an issue that no other government, Mr Prussakis, mentioned to me and which you have been absent from the Chamber, has dared to touch over the last forty years. Of course, I would remind you, Mr Prussakis, that the VAT, for which you accused us and referred to what the President of the Independent Greeks said at the time, was not a levy on the VAT of a government policy, but a coercion of terrorist creditors, with whom you have worked with. You brought the memorials, you supported them and, of course, you yourself served the chair from power rather than the Greek citizen, since we have proved to you the opposite. It is time to tell the Greek people that what we were saying beforehand we believed them, but we saw that we cannot implement them. That was the situation and we put the verdict on whether we should continue or go home. Greater proof than that is that we never served the chair, there is no. But you must inspire it, because otherwise, you will continue your micro-political, micro-party tactics and sterile opposition. So today, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the economic crisis, we are trying to give solutions. We are trying to adjust the transport costs of passengers, of the permanent inhabitants of our islands, and the transport costs of products for small and medium-sized enterprises based on the islands, with those on land. And against all this, what is the truth? And I am particularly addressing the New Democracy. It says that the measure is not complete, that funding is not sufficient, that it is aspirin. That's what you're answering. This is the reaction of counterpopulation, ladies and gentlemen. What do you suggest, though? You're not telling us. You are also telling us nothing about the efforts you have made in previous years when you have been at the wheel of the country's authority. And it's the simple reason. Because you have done absolutely nothing for the benefit of the many, for the benefit of the inhabitants of the islands. On the contrary, you have subjected the needs of the many to the demands of the few. Because you could, for example, protect the seafarer and you did not. As the honourable Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy rightly pointed out, we are now doing so and the fine of EUR 300 for an undeclared seaman becomes EUR 10,000, as is the fine for a simple worker in a cafeteria. That's in response to those who accused us of working for the shipowners. As regards financing, the programme is to be financed by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. The costs for the first phase, this year, are estimated at EUR 60 million and EUR 150 million annually. There have been voices from the Qualified Opposition on the level of funding. You're telling us it's a little over 60 million, it's not enough, it's crumbs. And I answer you. We have the political courage to recognise that this effort is not complete, but it is also made friendlyly. This pilot project is implemented through money from the Public Investment Programme and even in a period of economic crisis. The Minister for Maritime Affairs will be able to conclude programme contracts with the municipalities implementing the measure, with educational institutions and with any other body deemed necessary to implement this measure without delay. In addition, the bill clarifies that the Isle of Island Costs is tax-free, incompatible with the State or third parties, and is not subject to any detention and is not bound or offset by certain tax debts, or by the rest of the State or the insurance funds or banks, and is not calculated either in the income limits for the payment of any social benefits or social benefits. Really, so many years, what have you guys been doing? At the time when we are introducing the transport equivalent, you are once again acting hypocritically to say that we are accompanying the abolition of VAT on the islands. And I ask you: Where and how does this setback result from? What does it have to do with it? It has nothing to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Just a minute, please. Unfortunately for you, once again, you need to be content with populist reactions. It disturbs you that we proceed to steps to support the development of the islands. You are also disturbed by the fact that legislation, such as today, actually exposes your political inertia. You have had many opportunities in the past, gentlemen, to legislate and support the region of island Greece and you have not dared, you have not done so. That is why you are disturbing now, because we, in spite of adversity, show responsibility and determination. And we are giving solutions to issues that you are not prepared to resolve. That is why - let us not be fooled - that you are responding today in this way. Finally, I believe that we need to isolate the micro-party purposes and micro-political tactics, supporting the draft law, an innovative measure that will strengthen the development perspective of the islands and make islands feel relieved by the weight of distance separating them from mainland Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, we are all condemning the fact and it is a pleasure that, at this difficult moment, there is no injury but an attempt to invade your office. The Minister has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. It's one last piece of legislation. In the case of (a) (b)(1) of Article 3(1) of the draft law, before the words ‘according to what is defined’ are added the words ‘and the educational associates - visitors of the AEI’ and after the words ‘3848/2010 (A'71)’ are added to ‘and to Article 14 of Law No 2638/1998 (A'204)’. In fact, it is to be better formulated with regard to the teachers of the AENs. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bukouros has the floor. I've been telling you for attention now to time, because in general you're in the mood...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u278	I do not see why you are so strict with me when you have shown a tolerance for all previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u279	Not with you! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the majority, in the crescendo of populism and with this bill, you zero everything. The island policy, however, is the one that has brought tourist development to our islands, which has multiplied the per capita income of our islands. See where the per capita income was in 1974 and where it was when you took over the rule. This attitude to annihilate everything, constantly accusing your predecessors and consorting that you are doing everything for the first time, is the proof of your populism on the one hand and the blackout you want to impose on Greek society on the other. Neither the tourist product nor the island development was created during the days of SYRIZA, but only problems were created and it is difficult to achieve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u281	Neither is bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u282	Listen, Mr. Dritsa, and with this bill you're hiding behind your finger. You didn't bring - he says - the transport equivalent all these years. But there was a horizontal development measure, the low rates of VAT, which pertained to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u283	He's got nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u284	We'll see if this has anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Drizza!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u286	Why are you upset about what you're listening to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Bukkaro, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u288	We in populism and overcrowding are showing vivo patience. Aren't you prepared to hear any criticism of the Opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u289	To populism and excesses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u290	Well, you've exceeded every record of populism. I am not prepared, however, to discuss with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u291	But you do, Mr. Bucoore. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I would ask you to bear in mind that I have been interrupted four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u293	I'll take it, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u294	So I said that if you sacrificed the reduced rates of VAT, you will bring, a few days before the universal application of this measure, the equivalent of transport. Timing is the greatest proof. You associate an independent measure with this retreat that you made on your red lines. VAT rates, ladies and gentlemen, are the responsibility of each Member State. The abolition of reduced rates is your own decision alone. You retreat from your red lines, you and your co-pilots. We all remember what you said about the reduced VAT rate. Of course, the lenders also pushed the previous government to increase the focus rate from 13% to 24%. The previous government, however, kept the focus factor low, which is a large sector of the economy. You without any battle, without any negotiation, sacrificed the reduced rates of VAT. You sacrifice the major one, and now you are feeding crumbs and allowances. It is the State of Paterulou. But how reliable are you in your payments to third parties? Haven't you seen where the outstanding debts have been discharged over your days? Who will be paid, how much will they be paid and when will they be paid? Does the bill tell us, does it explain? Illegality. I should therefore like to point out, too, in order to agree with Mr Dritsa, the so-called insular cost compensation or equivalent would have made sense if VAT rates had not been abolished. It would indeed be developmental. Your policy, however, reminds me of the popular proverb "to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil to heal". You remove a horizontal development measure. You connect it. Let us see what is happening in other countries, ladies and gentlemen. It is the responsibility of each Member State. You put a VAT rate of 24% on the focus while France, Spain and Italy are at 10%, Portugal at 13%, Cyprus at 9% and our highly competitive Turkey in the tourism product is only 8%. At the hotel accommodation you raised the rate to 13% from 6% while France, Italy and Spain are only 10%, Portugal is only 6% and Turkey's directly competitive again to 8%. You are also sacrificed to the competitiveness of our tourism product, and it can have consequences in the future. You also sacrifice islandity. Other countries entered the Memorandum. Spain, the Canary Islands have been exempted from VAT. They don't know? Does the "first time left" only know? In Portugal, the Azores pay 3% less than the rest of the country. France in Corsica for oil products related to transport has VAT from 0.90% to 13%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u295	They didn't go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u296	You're telling the truth? Spain and Portugal were not under Memorandum arrangements? All right, all right. This is the fifth time you interrupt me. Apparently, they're annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u297	Don't answer that, Mr. Bucoore. Keep your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u298	In Germany, the island of Helgoland has been disqualified from VAT. In Finland, too. You come with a bill that finds vagueness and you're trying to convince us that you will close the wound that you opened up with patches. The Minister told us that 3 million will fall to Alonissos from Transport Equivalent. That's just one study. In practice, the inhabitants of Alonissos will be paying the cash from the day after tomorrow and will be expected to be paid by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. When was that? Do you know how much it costs, Minister, the transport of a car from Alonissos to Volos with a return? It costs 160 euros. Do you know how much a Skopelos resident pays to go to Volos, if you choose the speedboat? He pays 100 euros. If it takes a night, due to a lack of routes, then we're talking about half a wage. Half pension to carry his car and half a salary for a trip. Do you know how much he pays for health services?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u299	Who did this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u300	You. The inhabitants of Skiathos - who have left the health centre there desolate - is forced to appeal for health services off the island. You're saying you're gonna pay the transport equivalent. Do you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that Skopelos's businessman, a hundred-two in the number, is still waiting today for a million compensation for the catastrophic floods in 2015, while the ministerial decision has been adopted since June 2017? Do you expect them to believe you'll pay them the transport equivalent? To conclude, I would say that a single decision, the zeroing of VAT on passenger and vehicle transport, would indeed be a development measure. Now that we come out of the memorials, you could do it. It is a matter for the Member State. That would indeed be developmental, ladies and gentlemen, because with your bill - and I am closing - the islanders already know the consequences of the abolition of reduced VAT rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u301	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u302	I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not know, the bill tells us nor who the transport equivalent will be paid, nor how much this transport equivalent will be, nor when it will be paid, because you obviously forget that in the Public Investment Programme, which you have incorporated the transport equivalent, you signed the fourth assessment which prohibits you from being charged in any way. The islanders are aware of your policy, so the biggest demonstrations against your government policy took place on the Greek islands this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr. Pavlides and Mr. Mikopoulou are left on the list of speakers. We will conclude with the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Kefaloniannis and Mr Xydakis, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinios, will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u304	Don't we have any dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Kamaterre, there are no seconds because the bill is urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u306	But Mr. Athanasios in his protology made use of denology. It's registered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u307	Mr Pavloudis, you have the floor and we will consider the matter before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly terrible to hear from colleagues in the Opposition, representatives of parties who charged this country, bringing it into a status of highly indebted economy, lending 240 billion as a country - the only country in the world that has entered a financial adjustment programme with 240 billion - to report to us VAT rates in the focus on countries such as Malta, forgetting the fact that Cyprus has borrowed 10 billion, Ireland 80 billion and Greece 240 billion. Greece is the most deeply indebted country in terms of debt ratios with GDP. They tell us why VAT happened like this or else. It is at least disgraceful and political - in the opinion - an atrocity. I would dedicate this bill, not to the islanders, but to you, to the representatives responsible for the governance of the country for forty years, for the simple fact that this bill has 15 five articles. Just twelve articles are implemented a consistent request for for forty years of local island societies for equivalent transport. It only took twelve articles to get the basis of the transport equivalent, a major social, economic and development demand for the islands. We did this now, in 2018, in a regime of fiscal adjustment, economic crisis and containment of economic resources. I'm telling you this to know what we're talking about and be a little wise when you talk, as you speak. It is a measure that is not of a financial nature. It has a profound developmental and social reward character, with a direct return per month to each beneficiary. It's not horizontal. It takes into account the particular regional and intra-regional disparities, the dual islandity, i.e. the problem of small and remote islands within the overall problem of islands, leaving the regime to be viewed as island citizens of a second category in that country, facing the phenomenon of desertification of the smaller islands mainly because of the cost of living on these islands. It is a comprehensive treatment and a holistic management. For the first time the Ionian islands are integrated into this process, as well as the islands of the Argosaronikos. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have a very short memory that the Ionian islands had been excluded from the favourable VAT arrangements from the policy at the Ministry of Water, with desalination and water shortages policy. The Ionian had never joined them, never the Ionian had not entered the reduced VAT scheme. And now we are struggling with a presidential decree to incorporate the islands in this story. Because the Ionian islands were in general the problem of islands, children of a lower god, assuming, I suppose, that the Ionian islands are something like Lefkada, where with a bridge you were passing across to the mainland. It is an institutional innovation, a deep section, not only for Greek data, but also for the European institutional framework. This is the first time that we have had such an integrated island policy in the context of a single institutional intervention in a very intense multi-institutional environment with hundreds of fourteen inhabited islands, that is, 20% of the national surface, with a million six hundred thousand beneficiaries, that is 15% of the population. You have had them, without targeted policies in the economy, in education or in health, without a clause of insularity, which we too apply in our legislation and not only are we subsidising the transport of people, but we are strengthening the transport of goods and fuels. I also hear from Mr Brutsi, but also from other opposition colleagues, that these are crumbs, they are allowances. No, gentlemen, it's wrong. They are permanent policies and they are political poverty the most basic European principle, the principle of transport equivalent, to treat it in here and in public microphones as poverty policy and as a policy of benefits. It is a basic European principle that you have never dared to legislate on. For the first time, the status of the permanent resident island is established. There is a unique number of island and island business. For the first time, State aid is granted, through a public investment programme, to such a large number of companies in Greece - thirty thousand island companies - and with a permanent character! It is not a counterbalance to the island VAT, as you want to offset it on your political agenda, but a new permanent measure in favour of islands and their businesses. This policy is independent of any other policies that apply to the islands or those that will apply in the future. Let me remind you that VAT has a benefit of EUR 85 million. We in our policy for the second half of 2018 forecast 60m euros and a total year from 1-1-2019 almost twice as much as 150m euros. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a targeted policy of crediting the cost difference to the islander and to the island businessman and not to the shipowner, and it is really sad to hear the criticism from the JRC when it does not just want to see the reality, because these amounts are credited to the professional account of the island business and to the private account of the resident islands in this story. Beneficiaries are all permanent and legal residents of the islands as a whole. Temporary alternates and full-time teachers. Occupational doctors and all other health providers working in the public system. I'll tell you something and remember it. The unique number of islanders, the MAN that says in and the bill, the M-I, the transport equivalent, and the ANEEKO, the compensation for island costs, will be words that will now remain definitive in the life and everyday life and the entrepreneurship of our islands. Because these sums which will be credited to the accounts due to the procedure of this legislation are duty-free and irresponsible. They have no reservations, they are not offset by debts in the public or insurance funds or credit institutions, they do not affect income criteria for the provision of any welfare or other benefit - that is why tax and insurance information is not required - they are not included in the annual net family income and are not subject to the special solidarity levy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u309	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. For us, then, transport equivalent is not a counterbalance for the abolition that we have had to do at the specific VAT rate - and you know very well that we have had to do so - it is the crown of our development policy, along with the claim of other tax policies on the islands as long as the financial space is liberalised. It is a doubling of public expenditure from the public investment programme aimed at island policy, in the island inhabitant and in the island entrepreneurship. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the islands are changing a page and all it will desert is your neoliberal anti-grass policy, the sterile opposition you have been making so many years at the expense of islands and your policies. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Pavlides. Mr Mikopoulou has the floor, which is the last of the speakers, and then we shall proceed with the Members of Parliament, and I will give the rapporteur two, three minutes if you wish. And we will close with Mr Santorini so that we can proceed with the vote. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm warning you, I'm gonna need two more minutes of speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before entering the main part of my speech concerning the equivalent of transport, I would like to make two comments. First observation. I think that we will be able to reach agreement on this. In any event, since 2010, with our country's accession to the fiscal adjustment regime, with the known consequences, all policies that are linked to growth or to social policy have been and are directly linked to the annual debt service costs. We therefore either agree or disagree, a specific decision by the Eurogroup, with concrete measures that respond to the question of debt restructuring, and I imagine - or you agree or disagree - that, from the annual margin created, we will be able in the future, Minister - I address you at the moment - to optimise the benefits of the bill. Secondly, I want to make a second point. First of all, let me make it clear that the logic of abolishing the reduced VAT rates is a tough decision. Undoubtedly. But here, in my opinion, there is an inappropriate set-aside. So you say, in short, that we are bringing the transport equivalent to balance the'shasoura' that we will have since the abolition of the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. First of all, the transport equivalent bill is not a bill that discovers the wheel. In any case, he responds to an idea that was born in Norway in 1974 by Mr Petersen, who said the following simple thing, that as long as the citizens of the continent are taxed to have infrastructure, such as bridges, roads, connecting the continent, island citizens are unable to exploit these infrastructures and even an additional cost is borne when they have to pay an increased fare. This is how the idea of equivalent transport was conceived, so that this cost would start to be offset by the transport costs of the land area. That's the reality. Reality two. Since 2012, the Centre for Research and Technological Development, in cooperation with the company "KANTOR", had financed the study on how the transport equivalent will be applied to Greek shipping. In 2012, if I am not deceived, the reduced rates of VAT still apply to the islands. So this connection you are trying to make, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation, is also pointless, but it is, I think, also a little appropriate. In any case, I think we have a bill which has a double character. It's also a social profile, but it's a developmental one. The social profile on which it is based? It is based, first of all, on the principle of equality and proportionality. What does that mean in this particular case? That the cost of transport of products and movements of residents and businesses on the islands should be adjusted in the light of the needs and peculiarities created by islands and not horizontally based on the current prices of the mainland. But for the first time - and here we add it - it includes what else? The cost of transporting the products and the cost of free-line tickets. It therefore harmonises the costs of passengers and goods by means of public transport by means of maritime transport with the costs to be incurred by the public inland transport for exactly the same distance. I said before that he has a development profile. Why? Because by reducing the cost of transport of products and movements, the competitiveness of residents and businesses operating on the islands is enhanced and the local economy is stimulated. What does that mean? It also means that incentives are also being created to create new businesses. As a political representative of the Magnesia Prefecture, where we have the island element, I would like to quote concrete elements. Estimates, my colleague from Magnesia said before. I think, however, that, in its full implementation, this measure will benefit both businesses and the inhabitants of the islands in Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos. First of all, for businesses annually and during the full implementation of Skiathos in businesses there is a benefit of around EUR 2,700,000, for Skopelos EUR 1,800,000 and for Alonnesos about EUR 3,260,000. For a four-member family a year - and again I repeat in full application - the same measure for a four-member family for Skiathos means a benefit of about EUR 704, for Skopelos EUR 804 and for Alonissos, the benefit is close to EUR 1,063. What do I mean by that? I mean, apart from natural beauty, if you want, of the islands, what makes the beauty of our islands unique and unaltered in time are people themselves. So I think there should be a common way, a common behaviour between the democratic political forces, because it is a measure that helps the islanders and not worsen their everyday lives. Undoubtedly, I repeat, the issue of reduced rates is a tough decision. But be honest. Since the grace period goes to ten years, but also the lengthening of the maturity of the loans goes to ten years, this means that every year we save concrete money for the cost of serving loans and interest. What does that mean very simple? It means that in future we will also be able to make decisions on the issue of reduced rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. Come on, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have 12 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased to hear the previous colleague and young Member of Parliament find a useful thing in extending the loans that our country owes to its lenders, because in 2012, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, as Chief of State at the time, said that the prolongation of the loans is the biggest rope to drown Greeks and the country. At least, we saw once again that there was obviously another fraud or delusion. In any case, it is at least good that we can now agree on some issues. I'm gonna get into the bill real quick. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a fundamental issue and a central issue in any debate on the island policy in the country. This is a given - and I think we all recognise this - that the particular characteristics of our islands are permanently natural obstacles to their attractiveness and the achievement of a quality standard of living for both residents and visitors. This is because they have a high cost of creating infrastructure and services in the public interest, a high cost of production for businesses and, of course, a high cost of living, at least in relation to the mainland. Where we disagree - and I think it is the issue of discussions within Parliament, and I think that the political forces at some point should end up - are both in the means and in the political means by which we want to increase their attractiveness and the competitiveness of the islands. To say this quite simply, we must at some point, Minister, agree on the content of this long term term, which is called the development of island regions, so that, as a National Representation, we can set specific targets and have measurable results. Because if we do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, we will simply achieve nothing more than once more pious desires. When we are in opposition, we will have wishful desires. When we're in the government, there's probably someone else who'll have those desires. So at some point we have to agree in this Chamber. The main ministers, for example, are absolutely right when they refer to the need for an integrated island policy. Sadly, however, they have had little to do with how it is reflected in the administrative organisation of the State and the Ministry to which it is headed. I do not know how many of my colleagues know in this Chamber, but the territorial competence of your Ministry, Minister, only concerns five counties in the Aegean. For example, it does not concern Crete, the Ionian Islands, the Sporades, Samothraki, the islands of the Argosaronikos, Thassos and much more of the islands of our country. In a country that has about six thousand islands, in 2018 we are still insisting on an administrative division which, despite good intentions, undermines from the outset and above all the balanced development of our islands. The question, therefore, of the administrative supervision of the state is extremely important, because it takes away from your regional vision a number of island regions and obviously undermines the planning of policies with a national dimension. That is why, if we are to talk at some point about an integrated island policy, it should start with the administrative restructuring of the Ministry itself, so that nothing else would involve the entire island complex of the country. The government's main ministers accused the Qualified Opposition of imitating and even questioning that, over the years, those parties that ruled did not introduce the transport equivalent. In fact, the transport equivalent was not introduced. There have been so many other measures that have been mentioned to you by previous colleagues. However, no government, Minister, was certainly not contemplated to bring such legislation in such a sloppy and sloppy manner. No government in the past forty years has thought of bringing to Parliament such a bill, where we have shown in many respects how clandestine it has been. I think we have contributed to some other points and thankfully adopted them. And that's your honor. Certainly, no government has seen in recent years transport equivalent as a countermeasure to a purely anti-development and socially unfair policy for islanders, such as the abolition of reduced VAT rates, no matter how much you deny it. And it's so rough with the bill, that even the groups you're saying it's gonna benefit can't do the bill. I'll give an example. We all know that the Deputy Educational Attachés, but with an agreement between the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Education with the shipowners, had won an uninstitutionalized 50% discount on their tickets and vehicles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u315	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u316	Is that the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u317	Yeah, when did it happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u318	I ask you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u319	I'm asking you when it happened. You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u320	It doesn't matter when it happened. It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u321	This year for the first time with our own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u322	But is that true, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u323	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u324	I ask you: by the new law, which you bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Comrade, don't open a dialogue. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u326	I ask the Minister: This particular issue, which you brought with this particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u327	The bill is judged...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u329	Wait a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u331	Minister, I said that there is a given. My question is another, Minister. I'm happy to have a dialogue, too. I'm fine with it. In addition, dialogue is the main component of democracy. I ask you: in this bill, is the refund granted equal to or more or less than the uninstitutionalized 50% discount provided?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u332	Politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u333	You know very well that it is less, because in the vast majority of the islands this discount, which will start piloting, will be 30% to 40%. So who gets hurt? Obviously, you'll know that very well. Let's go down. You excluded Crete, not only from the pilot but also from the universal application of the measure. I ask you, Minister: are they not islanders in Crete? Or do you think, because it costs so much, that Crete should be excluded? Secondly, which you are obviously aware of: in Crete, dozens of alternates and orthodox teachers, subsidiary and rural doctors are employed each year, who are certainly called upon to respond to the tasks of a heavy high cost of transport, feeding and housing. I ask you, Mr. Minister: is these citizens a second category? Let's go to the main. Apart from teachers and doctors on the islands, there are, of course, too many categories of civil servants and civil servants, such as firefighters, police officers, judiciaries, who, unfortunately, will not have the chance to enjoy the privilege of transport equivalents. I think that's something you need to see. I'm telling you this as an inducement. We are going to the business issue, which our rapporteur, Mr Athanasios, has raised. Here, the constitutional principle of equal treatment of businesses is unfortunately going on a walk. We see that large companies located on the island are excluded from the transport equivalent. Of course, that's not just us. You're told by the Scientific Service of the House. At least, she should take her into consideration. I ask: have you understood as a government what the consequences of this exception will be? I'll tell you quite simply. In fact, you are establishing, firstly, a huge incentive, not just to act on the islands by transferring their headquarters there, but you are also giving the existing small and medium-sized enterprises a huge incentive to grow up. In other words, you are giving an anti-development incentive - anti-incentive to the essence - which you are institutionalizing with this intervention. Moreover, of course, by favouring companies located on the islands you create conditions of unfair competition between companies that contribute equally well to the local society and the economy. It has also been mentioned that the previous governments have never taken the initiative for a European island policy - I think Mr Kurublés said this - so that Europe's plentiful territorial cohesion can be carried out. Mr. Kurublis is absent. However, I would like to say to him that, first of all, 1988 on the PASOK Government, which, of course, was a member of this party, at the Rhodes Summit, first Greece had then raised the issue of the islands and the need for a specific European policy at European level. It seems that Mr Kourublis wants to delete his course in PASOK and adopt only policies of the present government on SYRIZA. The truth of history should be mentioned that this was first institutionalised in 1988. Also, you ignore that previous governments of post-multiple, both PASOK and New Democracy, established duty-free for residents and businesses of islands with a population of less than three thousand per cent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u334	You'll see, Minister, in your speech. Don't be in a hurry. There was increased financing of the island ETAs, a single PPC tariff on mainland and island Greece, irrespective of the cost of production and the subsidies for the horticultural lines. And, of course, the Minister ignores the fact that the reduced rates, which you have abolished, have been introduced. And because I heard many colleagues say that "You know, we were imposed by bad lenders" or "He couldn't do anything else", you know very well that it was the government's choice to abolish it. He could have another measure. So let the crocodile tears tears that others imposed on us. If you really wanted to have another measure in relation to the creditors' discussions, you could have put it on the negotiating table. No other government in these Memorandum years - we are almost decade-old - has ever come to mind doing this. And it was not understood, because we thought it was a purely anti-development measure for island regions. I will go to the amendments, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Amendment No 1629 is concerned, and with a special number 44, the New Democracy will vote 'the present', as it had done in the case of the FIFG. In Amendment No 1630, with a special number of 45, we will be negative, and the reason why we are negative, Mr Minister, in this provision is because, with a combination of the two articles in fact, you are abolishing Article 28 of your own law, Law No 4519/2018, which actually granted no suspension in respect of seizures and concessions to certain fines that had been imposed. What included this article? He said it has effect from 1-1-2018 and now you take it back, which means obviously you're trying to cover some specific cases of fines that have entered. This is something you know - not personally, I mean your Government - very well. That is why we are negative in this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1631 and with a special number of 46, which concerns the heads of the Labour Inspectorate, of course we are negative. I'm telling you straight away that we consider it to be photographic. As far as Amendment No 1632 is concerned, and with a specific number of 47 tabled for the SSP, we are also negative for the reasons I could put forward here, but due to a lack of time I will not do so, but above all because, in fact, you are in a way transparent for eighteen months, granting refreshments which are in the archaeological sites outside public competitions and the tourist season has begun. So there is no urgent need for this regulation. Obviously you go to cover some specific businesses or direct the comparative lease. That is why we are negative. We will also be negative in Amendment No 1633 and in number 48. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will close, ladies and gentlemen, my position very briefly on what has been heard in recent days on apostasy and on an effort from New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. Yesterday's announcement of the Great Maximos was particularly enlightening, that we are trying because of the independence of Mr. Lazarides from the Independent Greeks, almost to overthrow the city. In fact, he called on Mr. Lazaridis to hand over his seat. This is, of course, an issue within the government. But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how hypocrisy there is in this Chamber and above all how hypocrisy there is in Maximos. When Mrs. Big Economics was independent of the Central Association and came to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, was she a renegade? Mr Xydakis, because you will be given the floor later, I would really like you to give some answers, because I consider you to be a very honest and sensible man and I think that such descriptions certainly do not fit in this Chamber, but also outside of Athens. If we followed the same logic, the half-parliamentary group of SYRIZA, which came from PASOK, should be apostates and the entire Group of Independent Greeks from New Democracy should be apostates. Are we going, ladies and gentlemen, with this terminology here? So while you are calling on us to have a consensus to agree on a number of key issues, will you once again separate the Greek people and, in fact, divide it once again in order to rally your own party friends? I appeal: such expressions in the public speech as they can be avoided, because we have seen where we have been in previous years. Many of you have already accepted that there were very unfortunate many of these expressions that you used in the opposition, and unfortunately, I see that they are coming back to the public debate. Let me remind you of something else, however: in 2014 you used constitutional provisions to cast a legitimately elected government in the middle of its term of office. And you remember who you did it to? You and the Golden Dawn, together you voted against, not because then Stavros Dimas could not be a good President, but because you wanted to save and well cast down the previous government. You're forgetting about this, too. Being with those whom we are all condemning, you were in the 2015 referendum. I say this because today or yesterday it is three years since the referendum. So, I'd say we're all more careful in this room. And, of course, we are still waiting for some of our former colleagues to substantiate those accusations about the funding of Members. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Haikalis and others who, at the time, had even asked for the intervention of justice. We're still waiting for them to substantiate these charges. So we need to be more careful. In conclusion, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that a government which is politically collapsed - in a few months' time, it is certain that we will have elections, whether they will be in three, four, or six, it is a small difference - unfortunately, once again, to break Greeks apart again. After overcoming the memorial - antimony, we now went to the clean and corrupt ones and now to the apostasy scenarios. I shall conclude with a clear condemnation of what happened today in Mr Katsiki's political office. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we really deserve to see the statements. If he does - because some have been raped - he'll find out that he'll laugh at the spooky goat in this story. Mr Kammenos came out, for example, and called on the court to initiate an investigation into preliminary actions to overthrow the civil society. Mr Voutsis, the President of the Parliament, came out - if I recall correctly - and spoke of some groups without knowing who they were at the time and I imagine that he obviously did not know who the man was. I, ladies and gentlemen, present in the Minutes a communication from the 'Ruvina' to 'Indymedia', the well-known site, where, in essence, all these references are made both from the so-called anarchist site and from earlier terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u335	Finish this, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u336	Yes, I will, Mr. President. This communication reads: "About the attempted invasion of Mr Katsiki's office this morning at 9.45; comrades of the group attempted to enter the office of MP Constantine Katsiki in Queen Sofia 10 on the second floor. Unfortunately, the group was unable to enter the parliamentary office. Everything about the fact is a lie. No one entered the office by launching threats." If you want, I give it to you and tell Mr Katsiki that there are - obviously - some elements on which the group is perhaps referring, which attempted to make the invasion of this office. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And in any case, I think it is a sign of how often we use public dialogue to create impressions. In no case, however, should we go along with the elections, whenever they occur, try to politicize the climate and try to re-locate the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The Minister has the floor to make a legislative improvement. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Xydakis will have the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u338	I will not be tempted to answer Mr. Kefaliannis now. I'll do it in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u339	You have your speech after and you'll do well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u340	I shall therefore speak only about the legislative improvement. It is complementary to previous legislative improvement. In the case of (a) (b) paragraph 1 of Article 3, the words ‘and the working training staff of the Academy of Merchant Navy (AEN)’ shall be deleted. In fact, because we added the other one, there were twice as many academies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Xydakis has the floor. Immediately after that, those of my fellow Members who wish to do so will be seconded and Mr Santorini will close the debate. Here, Mr Xydakis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Let us start with a few words about the substance and the spirit of this legislature today. Having origin from both my parents from the islands, from the archipelago and having spent my childhood on the islands, I can only be happy not only for the measures, assistance, assistance, support to the economic and social life of the islands, but also for the fact that, at last, in certain conditions, at this difficult time, our country is going through - the long historical adventure - there is also a debate and a reflection on basic concepts. In Article 101 of the Constitution, there are provisions for islands - many times we have said them - and the refugee crisis has again placed the character and importance of islands in ethnic and social reproduction. Finally, in some ways, the islands, archipelagos, the Aegean Sea, the Ionian Sea, the Megalonissos are not a tourist destination, it is not just for tourist development. They are places on which Hellenism has relied over time. They are places where civilization was born. They are places where Greece, Greeks, their spirit, freedom, world civilization, letters, trade. This legislation introduces the thinking - which the government introduces, but I have seen many MPs from other parties agree - that the islands are places where people work with particular needs, people who teach children's letters, people who care for the health of residents, firemen, porters, civil servants, near farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fishermen. These public officials in particular, those who are looking to provide the structures of health and education in the years of crisis, but also before, because of the asymmetrical development that tourism has brought, are facing serious problems and transport and living. This legislation already provides for assistance to the fares and transport. I hope that care will be continued by both the central government and local government and commercial bodies in order to provide stable and permanent solutions to people who care for the structures of the state, the structures of education and health, to help them permanently, both for their residence and for their housing. I think that, as a financial area is to be created, the reduced rate of VAT will also be restored. It is part of the government's strategy for the island area, for Greece, and remains in this direction. However, this debate that opens up for the equivalent of transport or how in practice, permanently and firmly we will help island Greece is introduced with this bill. On this occasion, it is worth thinking of great thinkers such as the recent historical Spyros Astrahas, from Lefkada and the monumental work of the 1980s on the nature of the archipelago and how he described this island Greece as a great water-saving city, a scattered city in which the roads are the boats. This is the deepest meaning of transport equivalent in terms of history, in terms of a deeper understanding of what Greece is of coastlines and islands. The very word "Icesis", with an ancient Greek root, is the only one in all the European languages that does not mean the island as isolated, but as something that swims from the verb "I am". It is not "isola", it is not "island", because the whole archipelago is the place where culture, culture, approach, transfer of alphabet, transfer of metals, transfer of wine. It is the path through which culture is born throughout the Mediterranean. As far as what has been said in the Chamber and what people are talking about out about whether we will have distances, whether we have apostates, if we have moves, if we have a turbulence, at my own reading conspiracy and business interests have always existed and there will always be. And yes, there are entrepreneurs who do not want a Greece of transparency, equality and advancement. They want a Greece, a place where the complex, interest and methods of the mafia will flourish. These entrepreneurs obviously do not want a government that sets other rules and tries to deal in other ways at a historic time that we have to leave from whatever old times. And we have seen - because I was provoked by Mr Kefaliannis - that of course we renounce all these methods - from the 1980s to the present day we have some ol'government trying to produce politics, produce manipulation of masses and people through football anonymities, through television stations and newspapers. This has happened. They have also been discussed in Parliament on several occasions. They have rocked governments, they have rocked government majorities, they have fallen governments, they have sealed at the end of the 1980s and during the 1990s and during the 2000s here in this office of Prime Minister called another former Prime Minister "secretary of Interlocutory". This is where it has been said. It's happened. We are not, therefore, innocent, unsuspected, nor unresponsible, not only for the past, but above all for what future we are planning and which country and which state and which public life we are working on here. What I would say, without any desire to make a pun, is to shift the debate from apostasy to what is happening here. There are no apostates only. There are also those who distance themselves from the historic task that is at the moment: In memorandum Greece the task is called national reconstruction, productive reconstruction, social reconstruction, again enable the Greek society to build up conditions for healthy social reproduction, to give plans and hope to younger generations, courage and confidence to the mature, those who have been hit by them most by the crisis and, above all, to give a message to our compatriots and through them a message to our neighbouring countries, to the more or less friendly, that Greece is not isolated, is not alone. He washes and connects with the others. And we return to this message that Spyros Asdrahas and the ancient authors and poets of the twentieth century gave us: Greece is an island that swims, an island that sails. The vapours are her paths. It is not an isolated place where the damage, micropsy and maliciousness prevail. In these words, I would also like to thank those colleagues who have cut and those who have built this pretext for a new policy for Greece, a new policy for islandism and the new era, which draws us from the sleeve. I also express thanks to the Vice-Presidents, who, in spite of all legitimate criticism, shares and votes for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor. I'll give you three minutes. From that point on, if you need more time, you'll have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President, for meeting the request. I think we are at the end of the debate and, in my opinion, we should draw some conclusions. I would like to focus on two issues of closure: one is that there has been a criticism, a constructive debate to a large extent, that this is not an integrated transport equivalent, that it is not provided for in the bill that has now come. I think that the draft law itself, the ministers and we said it was pilot by this semester, is a first step, and indeed the bill itself provides that a national strategic plan for the integrated implementation of the transport equivalent must be developed within three years. Many colleagues have said here, and much more so, Mr Dritsas, which I would like to stress, how complex the problem is. It's not simple that way. It is not just a question of giving some millions depending on how much we can every time and now we can 150 and if we give 500, it will be better. That's not the simplest thing. It has to do with too many other factors, such as shipping, how companies operate on the coastline, who controls, whether they can interfere with the public, how internal lines, circular lines, shipping, and, of course, with many other factors that I cannot say now. I just wanted to point it out. However, from the point of view of this criticism and reaching a vote against it, there are other reasons behind it. A second thing I would like to say is that it is precisely because there could not be a great deal of reaction on this issue - who could say 'I am against the equivalent of transport? - an attempt was made by the Opposition to focus the whole debate on the abolition of reduced VAT rates, which is indeed a blow to island policy. First, though, let's see who they call it. I will not stick to the arguments put forward by too many speakers on our side, namely that this was voted on by everyone - I mean those who voted on the agreement in August 2015 - nor that it was normally provided for in mail Hardouvel on page 27. Hardouveli was also a proposal from the Greek Government: Removal of reduced VAT rates by 30% on the islands. I'll say something that hasn't been said. The agreement we were offered and our government refused in July 2015 was there or was there? Of course, there was a measure to abolish reduced rates of VAT on the islands. What did we say about this deal? Oh, no. We went to a referendum and supported 'no'. All of you who are supporting the measure of the reduced VAT rate and blaming us that we are abolishing it, what were you then saying? Yes to that deal. That's not right at all. However, I wanted to end by pointing out and take the floor from what a colleague from the last speakers said that - and many of the opposition were based on an answer that Moskovis gave to a question by a Member of the European Parliament - it is the responsibility of the Member State - tax policy. Of course. Did anyone say it wasn't? Under what circumstances? I have to ask: Is it the Member State's competence to define the minimum wage or not? So why did you take the payroll and take him where you took him? Is it the Member State's responsibility for pensions? Why did you cut them? Who forced you? Is redundancies the responsibility of the Member State or not the public, how many civil servants will we have? It is. Why did you fire? Is it the responsibility of managing the State property of the Member State? It is. Why did you build the HICP to sell the entire property? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is the last sentence. Also, to come to the most specific issue on the islands, some speakers went out and said about the islands: "Do you know how much it costs to go from there? Do you know that he wants a wage?' Who are you guys talking about? Who have been ruling for so many years? Who created them? What about us? Therefore, taking into account all the precedents that I said about the responsibilities of the Member State, which at the moment we could not exercise in the memoranda, we had to accept some things. But you - and it has been proven many times - have not only implemented them with great pleasure, but also found the memorials to apply this policy here, such as VAT and as the refusal to apply any of the island measures, island policy which you have taken horizontally, booked offices, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u346	I shall conclude, Mr President. Was it the Member State's responsibility to determine VAT on transport? It was. And what rate did you have in transport? You had 24%. In other words, while you had the power to reduce the rate of transport on the islands, as was 30% on all other things, you in transport, which concerns us and which we are discussing today with the equivalent of transport, deliberately kept it, even though you were not raped by anyone at 24% at the increased rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u347	Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for three minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Although the draft law introduces genuine transport equivalent rather than some kind of subsidy, I still have to acknowledge to the State Secretary, Mr Santorinios, that he has accepted several of our proposals that improve and help the functionality of this grant. I said that the New Democracy is not opposed to a transport equivalent that will be functional, will solve the problems of our islands and will endure the time. However, what is introduced by the bill is not an equivalent transport policy, rather than a kind of subsidy, as I mentioned. So it is not possible to vote as a New Democracy. And why is nothing achieved with the transport equivalent to the bill as imported? First - not all islanders will enjoy it, as I said. And despite the changes that I have seen in the improvement, where there are even substantial ones, such as Article 7, which we are going to vote on, not all islanders and all the businesses that operate on the islands will enjoy it. We call for the criterion, Minister, as I have said, not to be traceability, but real economic activity. Secondly, it is made by ministerial decisions, but also by joint ministerial decisions by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, a legislator, which is unconstitutional and forbidden. At least you have not made presidential decrees regulating individual disputes to exist in the control of the Council of State. The cost of transport equivalent falls, in accordance with the legislation, but also from the Report, in the Programme of Public Investments and in the co-financed programmes with the European Union. However, the fourth assessment prohibits for 2018 and 2019 the burden of the Public Investment Programme. It does not appear to be the case how this money will be found. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Fourthly, you have brought it as a matter of urgency because of the abolition of VAT rates. And while there had to be greater sensitivity to this issue at a time when our islands, especially the northern Aegean, and also the migration problem, are being plagued by requests from the whole Opposition, as far as the first half of 2018 is concerned. However, refuse to do so for 2019. And I cannot understand what will benefit the budget of these five islands suffering from migration, i.e. Chios, Samos, Leros, Kos and Lesvos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is estimated that in the second half of 2018, the charge from the transport equivalent will be about 50 to 60 million. And next year it will be, I imagine, twice as much for the whole year. But the benefit it has from these islands is much smaller. And one wonders why you are not doing so, because the objective was with the agreement you signed on abolishing the reduced rates to reduce public spending, which, of course, makes the situation worse. There is, of course, also an inconsistency in this regard, seeing that, while it was not determined, with the amendment you have brought, Crete, Evia and Lefkada will be excluded from the time. Okay, Lefkada may have a bridge, but on the other hand do not overlook that it is an island that is not rich. They do not have the economic comfort of its inhabitants as they do on other islands. It's not Santorini, which comes in, nor Mykonos. I have nothing with Santorini or Mykonos, but I'm trying to compare economic sizes. That is why the people of Lefkada and our Member, Mr Kavvada, are rightly complaining, but he has not been able to say - on this issue. Do not forget - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the abolition of reduced VAT rates, as I mentioned this morning, is also mentioned in the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union, but also in the Treaty on Lisbon and the European Union, in Articles 174, 175 and 176. And I say this: Today, since a great effort is being made to the European Union and it obliges - not the Member States - that the European Union should bring VAT to their islands - and Portugal has already done so - that you could very well bring it up at the last minute. I told you and Mr. Kurubli, since you were talking to Mr. Tsakalotos, if we could bring this even at the last minute. I wonder why it was not for these five islands, since Europeans do not object either in the face of the migratory crisis on our islands. After that, of course, I will say: in principle, we will not vote for it, but in some articles, following the improvements you have made, the New Democracy is not, as I have said, negative, because we are interested in the economic development of the country. So in some articles, not because the legislation is right, but because we want it to work, which I doubt it will work because of the issues that I have told you and especially because you will not find resources, you will not do so because it is forbidden by the Public Investment Programme, but if that is the case, we would at least like it to be practical and to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Three minutes we agreed, and finally, six minutes you both went. Now I have to tell Mr Carras to complete more quickly. Come on, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, I do not know if I will follow your recommendation. However, from this morning on my prototype, I had not been informed about the facts in Mr Katsiki's office and I would like to say that he has not only the personal but also the unequivocal support of all of us in terms of the Democratic Incorporation, and we condemn this unequivocally from wherever it comes. I would also like to mention a second issue which is of the news briefly of Mandra's suffering again after yesterday's sinking and, in any case, how will it deal with this inertia? Because it appears that the phenomenon of the disaster in Mandra is at risk of being repeated at all times. But let's go to the bill right now. As I have not spoken about the amendments, I shall refer to that. With regard to our involvement in the bill, I think it was a constructive aspect of the Democratic Integration and I am pleased that, with the supplements made, the implementation of the bill, in relation to the question of the transitional stage, was a step forward, and I must say that I have already announced, waited for its implementation. Let's go later, then. I would like to say the following in respect of the amendments. For what is already Article 15 of the draft law, which is to supplement the provisions of the "Information Society" Statute, we will be placed with the "residences" for the reason that the definition of members of the administration is made directly, and could be made by means of a notice, for a more open choice. With regard to Article 16 of the bill, an amendment by the Ministry of Health, we will say 'yes', not for another reason, but for the continuation of the provision of health services and, at the same time, for the guarantee of work, even temporarily, for nurses and other staff, although we believe that this procedure has been too long and has now been marginally lawful following the decision of the Court of Auditors. The Minister for Health is not here, but I must note it. As regards the military service proposed by Mr Dritsa, its inclusion in the rights of ports cannot be said to be 'no'. We consider Article 17 to be fair, because taking account of both the provision of services to society and the state is correct. In the next amendment, with a general number of 1629 and a special 44, for the register and the suspension of enforcement of decisions against the EAGF, we are placed in the'residents' for the reason that, although the first part of the register is a need that needs to be regulated, the second part is the following consideration: the application of judgments which have been indicted in labour disputes to the beneficiaries - workers is suspended. We will therefore say'residents' for a single reason: to ensure the work of the already servants and in relation to the shorter suspension we will wish that there is no further suspension and that people can carry out judicial decisions and fulfil their rights. I would like to make a note in the amendment on the implementation of barren lines. I think that these are legislative lines, but it is no longer worth staying in the wording. We will say 'yes', because it may appear to be charismatic, it may not be mentioned who will be the beneficiaries - we do not know that - but in any case we consider it reasonable to take account of operating costs, so that the amount of the irresponsible is increased, and perhaps these services are better served by passengers and islands. It is in this sense that we are putting ourselves in a positive position. Otherwise, we'd be negative vertically. The next amendment is the definition of criteria for selecting a Heads of Labour Inspectorate. We can only say 'no' for the reason that a draft law of the Ministry of Labour has already been tabled, that it is imminent to introduce it into the committees. Why is she coming alone and hanging out, and what is the urgent need? In a week, the other bill procedure will be completed. We are against the Ministry of Culture's amendment on the issue of renting or extending the rental of sites in the archaeological areas, because we do not see full transparency. It has the form of a temporary need, but it does not mean that there was no time for these issues to be settled in the past and they cannot come under the pressure regime and that the Parliament should be asked to adopt legislation. In the last, sympathetic and selective amendment tabled, I can only remain in'represent' for reasons of principle, because, Mr President, it is one of the well-known ones I have called 'critical'. When the Ministry cannot legislate quickly and feels a need, it gives it to a good colleague, to meet the need. I understand what the content of the amendment is, but I cannot give an entirely positive vote, except to remain in the'representations', to remain consistent with my principles of crypt-amendment, which I have repeatedly supported in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u352	I won't need much time, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Only one point on Rule 17, Mr Dritsa's amendment, which has become an article. It's exactly what we told you when he came to Law 4504. That is exactly what we have been telling you since then and fortunately he has come to correct. We believe that it will correct the specific problem that exists, because the future of many of the representatives of the port House is judged. I would also like to make a reminder to what you committed yourself. In this law, there was a day of memory of a Port Authority. We're waiting to see the opening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u354	I would like to focus on what has been said about the JRC's attitude in relation to this amendment. Government MPs tell us that we are inconsistent with our policy. We ask them why are we inconsistent and not them? You say that you want to reduce the cost of transporting people and products from the islands to the mainland, because the reverse as far as people are concerned is not the case. That is why you have 60,000,000 this year and 150,000, 000 per year for its full implementation. We say: Who will pay these 150,000 000 to full implementation? Are the shipowners going to pay for it? Apparently not. The state coroner's gonna pay for it. So what we are saying is that not only in this case, but also in other cases, with the various equivalents and countermeasures, what are you doing? Take from the poor and give the poorest. That's what you do, redistribution of poverty. This measure would indeed be redistributive, would take such a form, if you took from the rich, namely the shipowners, these 150,000 000. You don't have to do much. One or two tax exemptions to abolish them and you got these 150,000. This is not a huge amount. You obviously don't, because the shipowners are the people with whom you're making a cake. They are the ones who make growth, because, in your view, growth and production and wealth are produced by entrepreneurs, they are not produced by workers. So we have the workers, we get them. I'm not talking about goodwill, exploitation, etc. I am speaking through tax policy, namely through urban policies. We are giving subsidies to capital and we are giving some scum to the impoverished and the poor. Don't tell us what we're saying will only happen if there's a revolution. Oh, no. It is now done under conditions of civil parliamentarianism. Remove one - two tax exemptions from shipowners and the ones you get to give them to the inhabitants of the islands, but also to the Greek population in general, so that the inland residents can also go to the islands and take relatively cheap holidays, because today tickets are expensive. Which family can go with today's tickets to take a vacation when only for tickets wants a five-year-old, if you put the car in? Who's got that money to do this thing? But what do you say to us? You say to us: 'Now what do you want? Should we go and the New Democracy come?' You say that, of course, in the logic of less evil. We tell the world: is the straight path lost? So the good thing's gone? Is the JRC gone? Reinforce the JRC. Why? Because the rest of the parties, all urban parties, you agree on strategic targeting. You all want capitalism, the European Union and NATO, you want all of you. With Yunker you sleep with Stoltenberg you're waking up. They kindly hit you on the back, and they say "bravo" about what you're doing. This SYRIZA - ANEL government is doing what they could not do at this time in PASOK and New Democracy, because they did not have the left staff you have. You have taken measures incomprehensibly and of course without lifting any of the previous measures, you have added new ones. So what is the choice the Greek people have to make between the smallest evil, as you say? It's not the least evil option.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, may I precede my colleague for thirty seconds because I forgot to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u357	What about, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u358	I missed a note and I would like to mention it because the Minister will speak immediately afterwards. I need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u359	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u360	After speaking, Minister, in Article 2 on the programming contracts referred to in paragraph 2, I see the following: '... or any other body deemed necessary'. I see a generalization. I think we should stay at the educational institutions and the research institutes, which you are referring to. The 'any other body deemed necessary' is entirely general and I do not think it will help to implement the law. If you want, delete it, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, may I have the floor, because I too forgot to talk about something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u363	What did you forget, Mr. Tassos? Because if everyone starts to forget, you know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u364	Since there has been a lot of discussion about the rights of workers and the protection of these rights, I have in my hands a communication from three unions, the Pan-Hellenic Trade Union, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Lower Machine Payments and the Pan-Hellenic Professional Association of Merchant Navy Cooks. And they say here: “After the shipwreck of the negotiations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Tasso, don't read it. Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u366	In any case, these people, because the negotiations on collective bargaining have been hampered, are on strike claiming their rights. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u367	Mr Polakis, you have asked for some clarification in the amendment, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to something that Mr Tassos has heard from, from what I have been informed at some point of his position, in relation to the amendment we have tabled on ancillary staff. I'm glad you accept it and vote for it. Let me clarify for the people you've said. These twenty people were appointed after 7-8-2017, which was the extension of those appointed either before 2015 or May 2016. They were some posts that had been vacant, proceeded to the group table and some, some, twenty people, know it. They have no problem with payment or problem with dismissal, as it was with others, before we tabled the amendment. These people continue their service properly. Clearly they can participate in the tender, with the increased mobilisation of the pre-service they have done. We estimate that on 30-5-2019 the process will be completed, so we will be able to hire the new permanent staff. If there is a need for special arrangements for them, because now there is no need, we will cover them in order to continue to serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u370	It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the provisions of this bill do not remove the major disparities that characterise the burden on the inhabitants of the island regions of the country with those of the mainland, with regard to their movement or the transport of goods to and from the islands. It is clear, then, that these contradictions are not removed. But it is good and we can only welcome the fact that at last, after almost four decades of public debate on the need to adopt support measures for island regions, with the famous transport equivalent, we have a start. Is it a coward start? She's a coward. Is it incomplete? He's incomplete. Most importantly, however, it is experimental, I would say, and on the basis of the experiences we have, at least opportunities for improvement are being opened. And, of course, if our country finally walks the road, we will have other possibilities for adopting other measures to support and remove these major inequalities. So we can only welcome this first creation of conditions for the lifting of island inequalities. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] My second point is that the comparison and correlation between the transport equivalent to the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands is hypocritical. It is hypocritical, because we know very well through what procedures we have been forced to equation the VAT of the islands with that of mainland Greece. And if we really want the political forces of the country, because we believe that it is fair and correct, that a support measure should be reintroduced by reducing VAT rates on the islands, but because I have said in my speech that experience shows that it has not been exploited as it should have been in the years that have taken place, so that the beneficiaries of the whole of the islands - let us see with a serious understanding between us how we can use the opportunities that we will have from now on - Mr Athanasios mentioned just before new opportunities open up - in order to return this to a serious negotiation. So let us have a cross-party consultation on such a matter, so that we can have results and be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u371	We are grateful to Mr Dannelis, who completes the cycle of the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs. Mr Santorinis, State Secretary for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about our islands, about Europe's most insular country and perhaps about Greece. The island itself, the geography of the island, creates intrinsic problems for its own inhabitants, the islanders, businessmen, those who are trying to survive, to develop their businesses, to raise their children, to their daily living, to the level of services and to the cost of life. The constitutional legislature - heard many times - provided for by Article 101(4) and Article 106(1) the specific island provisions. But also in Europe, the Treaty of Lisbon in Article 174 and Article 176 has special care for the islands. These provisions of the constitutional legislature and of the European institutions have been given this? They were convicted by the islanders, by the islanders who tried, by illiterate people who in Parliament fought and fought for islands. And at least in the European Parliament and in Parliament Mr Dannelis was one of those who fought. But have these predictions been justified? Was it a real island policy? Today we are talking about an essential island institutional section. It has been one of the islands' claims for too many years. However, no one has ever dared to carry the equivalent of transport. And I'll tell you something. In most parties, the equivalent of transport was not even in their planning positions, not even in the recent ones. It was, however, a time-consuming programme for the Left as a whole - and that is why I am impressed by the position of the JRC - that there must be a transport equivalent. He was in position in the September 2015 elections in the parallel programme. We anticipated the transport equivalent. It was the Prime Minister's commitment to Nisserro in 2016. Because these are territorial cohesion policies in practice. The alignment of the transport costs of islands and goods to and from islands in relation to land transport is territorial cohesion policy operations. And how are these financed? Do we claim them from the European Union and if we take them? They are financed by the National Public Investment Programme. And, Mr. Athanasios, it is predictable. There are 60 million for this year, 150 million for the year and for another two years there is already funding. And do not so much defend the fourth assessment, which you condemn anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u373	I am not in favour of it, Minister. You voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u374	So I say to you that we cannot ask for island policies from Europe today. It's just from there, though? Are we going to conduct island policies? That's what we do in practice today. First of all, then, we are implementing Greece and we are calling for Europe as well. The transport equivalent today, so it comes to be implemented, is not similar in Europe. There are many applications in Europe, Scotland, Denmark, Corsica, Norway, which are linked to the European Union. But it is not what we are trying to bring today. Why? Because the multi-Israeli character of our country is such that we cannot get a system at hand and bring it here. For we are also seeking something more than the other systems: the lifting and the competitive disadvantage of businesses. The other systems only talk about passenger transport. They don't talk about goods transport. We are also trying to remove this competitive disadvantage. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me to speak much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u375	Hey, how much more? Close, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u376	Five more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u377	I think you can summarise them in a shorter time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u378	I'll try it. That is why we are now innovating with this programme at European level. And I think that we will be able to be good practice. For the first time, we have to move a good practice into Europe. Why is it development? Because it removes the competitive disadvantage of businesses and because it enables islanders, it encourages islanders to make new businesses. So what? To lift the oligopolistic regime in the small islands on the markets of the smaller islands. This is also the first time that the transport equivalent is to be applied to the Ionian and the Argosaronian, where there were no special rates of VAT there. Let's take a pilot run. Why are we using a pilot run? Because we didn't have data. Because no one ever, as many times as they remembered to proclaim it, did not do a study. The only study is the one we spoke about with the KANTOR, which was actually what was foreseen. Only for the barren lines and to buy a ship, which was sending the cost too high. So basically it was utopian as a study. So what do we want? To collect empirical data, to see how the system works, and so to improve and redesign the measure. Thus, in the next three years, the national policy on equivalent transport will also be established, which will pass through the House with the new data. Now, I heard a lot about VAT. I have said that since the first moment: the equivalent of transport is not a compensation for the reduced rates of VAT. So Mr. Kegeroglu told us that Moscovisi said it was the government's choice. You forget that in the summer of 2015, the abolition of special rates of VAT on the islands was voted on, as a mandatory measure within the framework of the memorandum, and was not only voted on by us. It was voted by both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River, by two hundred twenty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u379	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Carras, you weren't in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u381	It's not like that. Minister, you put it in one paragraph, not special.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u382	That's right. That's right, Mr. Athanasios. Look at your vote. And you bring us, Mr Athanasios, and an amendment - and I told you the other day - and you say about the insular VAT. Is that the insular VAT? Or is it in the refugee islands? Do not go to Lemnos and St. Stratis and tell them 'I have tabled an amendment to keep VAT rates'. Don't go fool the world. Don't go to Karpathos, Symi, Leipzig, Psaras, tell them that you will maintain the special VAT rates. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u383	You do it. I have arguments, I don't dispute them. You do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u384	We're very clear about what we're doing. They're recorded and written in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u385	You did it, Minister, in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u386	Please, Mr. Athanasios, do not interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I want the floor because it is falsifying. It's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u388	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u389	Allow me, then. On page 27, point 5 of the mail Hardouvelis on 29-11-2014. Hardouvelis email was the Greek government's proposal to close the fifth rating, which was never closed. So what did the Greek Government propose to the very least to get a reply from the institutions? What did he say at point five? That for the 'VAT islands' rates', so called them the island rates of VAT, we will revise these special regimes within the framework of European policy in order to become a simpler and more effective VAT system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u390	You're talking about the mail Hardouvelis? I have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u391	Yes, sir. Here it is! I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u392	We're gonna get fat?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u393	We won't get fat. Today is not a lot of bureaucracy. The truth is that the New Democracy MPs sometimes defended the bureaucracy to defend Mrs Bakoyannis' position in committee. We have been told about bureaucracy: The National Network of Research and Technology is making such an application for nine hundred thousand islands and small and medium-sized enterprises. How difficult and bureaucratic is this system going to be? Four points: We enter the "TAXIS" codes, we take the unique number Island, we go to get a ticket and the money comes at the end of the month to our bank. So difficult and bureaucratic! For businesses: We enter the "TAXIS", we get the Unique Number of Island Enterprises, we register the freight bills, and at the end of the quarter we get the money. That's so hard! So bureaucratic! You're talking about this bureaucracy! Mr. Kefaliannis told us that we are not serving substitute teachers who for the first time are entering such a measure. This is the first time that substitute teachers, subsidiary doctors, subsidiary workers in agricultural hospitals, hospitals, children in sports clubs - and that is why there is provision - for sporting athletics. He told us that it was not the interest of the Deputy Professors, because 50%, of course, which is not institutionalised, is higher as a discount rate. When was it introduced? Do you have a picture? For the first time in this year in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and in cooperation with the shipowners. For the first time! You've never dealt with the Deputy Professors. Now you're telling us they'll probably lose a 10%. Yeah, but they'll have these tickets all year long to use them whenever they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u394	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, I will conclude with a few examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u396	The amendment that has been tabled is a provision to shipowners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Athanasios, nothing is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u398	I'm closing up with a few examples. This is the hard one for the islanders to enter and see how many tickets they have, what is the number, the Unique Number Island. I'm filing it in the Minutes. A four-member family for this semester, for a six-month period in Koufonissi, can benefit up to 849 euros, in Agathonissi EUR 1.575, in Onousses EUR 720, in Agios Stratis EUR 456. So is the benefit a family can have from the ticket difference. The Forks 592 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u399	How do you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Athanasios, you will leave me to listen to the islanders what will be their benefit. At Karpathos EUR 947, Ikaria EUR 519 and she goes to say. We said about business how much they can get. They've been reported by others. And because we're talking about whether there's any benefit to the main kinds of food, I'm going to say that a box of flour has today EUR 9,55 in Patmos. It'll take 10.08 with the VAT increase, 0.53 difference. How far is it to move from Piraeus to Patmos? Six euros. How much is it from Athens to Kalamata? Two and a half euros. How much will it finally be? How long will the operation take? Three and a half euros, compared with 0.53 which will be increased by the abolition of special rates of VAT. So basic food products, products that are of great interest to the islander every day, will have a higher discount than transport equivalent if you want this. Today is a historic day, because it is entering an institutional part of the island policy. We will implement it and very soon you will see it in the metaforikoisodynamo.gr. That is where we will all be judged, and those who vote for it and those who do not vote on it. But surely the islanders will judge who actually brought policies for the islands and who only knew to have the VAT reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, one clarification please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u402	Mr. Athanasios, please! You are an old parliamentarian and you are well aware that the Minister is concluding the debate on a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u403	What do you think? Twice a year for inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u404	You have had several hours of discussion in the committee, obviously, but here in the House too, to answer any objections or questions, if you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u405	Yeah, but listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u406	No, you have no right of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u407	Yeah, but you can't give three times the time for inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u408	Nothing is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I am tabling the cardouvelis mail for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u410	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy is closed: ‘Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent (M.I.)’. and other provisions.’; We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u411	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u412	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: MODULE APPLICATION, STATE SURVEILLANCE AND GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR TRANSITIONAL EQUIPMENT (M.I.) AND OTHER PROVISIONS
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u413	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent (M.I.)’. and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u415	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-27-S1-commons.u416	With the consent of the House at 18.28 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 28 June 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate
