ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the eleventh question under number 1108/20-2-2018 of the second-round question by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject of "Death of 26-year-old prisoner in Larissa". The Minister will answer it, Mr Stavros Kontonis. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor to first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It has been over three decades, if I remember well, when Sorin Matai was killed in cold blood during transportation from the Nice Hospital in Korydalou Prison. Justice has been rendered that way. Poor Ginaki has found tragic death in an apartment under the threat of a Romanian. Before Romanians was even transferred to prisons, police invasions were made at the time - I believe incorrect, to be fair - and he was injured, and even before, I repeat, transferring from the Nice Hospital to the Korydalou Prisons - since, of course, man had caused this whole situation - some had made sure that he was taken away from his life during transportation. The day before yesterday I heard a Member of the Staff Committee saying that we need to make many more high-security prisons. It reminded me of the 'white' cells in Germany, the Banders - Mainhoffs. I say all this on the occasion of the death of the young prisoner, who was twenty-six years old and had a problem, I think, not important. But it's no reason for a child, whatever he's done, to die in his twenty-six years. I don't blame neither staff nor anyone, but I think there's a diffusion mentality that they - forgive me the expression, do not belong to me - are scumbags of society, are inhumans, and so we don't care much about their lives. No, I believe that the mirror of a country's democracy is the rights of detainees, as bad as they did, even though the twenty-six-year-old hadn't committed a crime, for fraud it was, it had not killed a man. Because there are examples of fresh things that I have in front of me, where only in the last month have killed four - five prisoners - Alikarnassus and goes on to say - I think it is time to deal with this. I say again, a mirror of real democracy is the rights of these people, even though some colleagues here have another view, 'white' cells, hard, many more prisons, if possible fill with prisons and go by saying. I believe that you have the sensitivity, because I hear you often the way you speak, and I think we do not have much room after this incident and many other things that coexist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will tell you one more and forgive me, Mr President, the abuse of time. Anyway, you don't have much time-consuming today. I was commander at the General Hospital of Nice, when some king's elders at Giotopoulos, who was then doomed to three lifesavings, had. A piece of 4X3 that saw heaven and some, to punish him more, they went and closed it. I was the Governor at the General Hospital of Nice and Minister of Justice at that time was Anastassis Papaleguras, who immediately understood the problem and solved it in seconds. To open immediately, he said, to see Giotopoulos and stop the hunger and thirst strike, because I had him at my hospital then. After all these years, I expect to listen with care. There are many requests. There is a special club, not only in your party, but it is old history and I have participated, where these people's rights - and they are too much, they are not only in health, they are in education, in culture and many others - must be shielded. I'm waiting for your answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to go on with my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before giving the floor to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to agree on something. Today in particular, we must respect time and not just for the sake of respect for the Rules of Procedure. I have no replacement in the Chair, and on the basis of the twelve topical questions I will definitely be three hours. I won't be able to take it any more. I therefore ask you very much not to violate time and to be consistent. Based on normal time, we need a three-hour. We can't go any more. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to say something before entering the point of view of the reply. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Chief of Staff Response had a very bad inspiration. He said, on the basis of the decision of the Central Committee on Transition - in prison in Larissa, for which there were some mobilisations last week - that the government is doing what the defendant and terrorism are asking her to do. I believe that this statement by Mr Mitsotakis is completely unstable, not to say that it gives me the impression that he has no knowledge of the real facts. And because last week the Ministry of Justice, with a great deal of thought, seriousness and self-restraint, dealt with the issue, without any truce and without making public statements, I want today from the Step of the House to inform both the National Representation and the Greek People of the following: First of all, this prisoner was held in Larissa. By decision of the prosecutor and the investigator was charged with attempted homicide by the former Prime Minister, Mr Papademos. For a court in Athens, he was transferred to the prisons of Korydallos where he remained four days and immediately thereafter returned to the prisons of Larissa. That is exactly where there was an absurd and illegal request to remain in Korydallos prisons. It was illegal and irrational. Illegal, because no procedure had been followed and unreasonable, because prisoners do not choose the penitentiary institutions to which they will remain. There are regulations and decisions. Immediately after the mobilisation, a request was made by this prisoner to the Central Transport Committee to be transferred to Athens. In my opinion, the Central Committee on Transport has rightly decided to transfer it to a plan for months set up by the Ministry of Justice for the conversion of the Korydalou Prison from a joint prison of judges and convicted to a prison of judges. In fact, in order to implement this plan, the next month will leave Korydalou prisons around the fifty-seven convicted and will come about twenty-seven people, because the issue of the decongestion of the Korydalou Prison will also be tackled in this way, that is to say, gradually. The first detainees to come to the prison in Korydallo, and not the government, decide that he will also be the prisoner, as well as six others from Larissa. And why did he decide to do that - correctly in my opinion - by the committee? Because this prisoner, like others, has very serious courts in due course. In fact, he has a court, as I have heard, in the first ten days of May. So, quite rightly, the committee decided to come to Athens in order to have better consultation with its lawyer, because, look, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want any prisoner or defendant to claim that burdensome conditions are in place to defend him before the court for such serious offences. So this was the government’s responsible attitude. It did not give in to any request, as I said, irrational and illegal, for the immediate return of the prisoner - in fact some were asking on the same day to return to Athens - and only after submitting a request, which has been examined and will be implemented more than a month later for the reasons I mentioned to you. I therefore hope that his colleagues and his colleagues will be more careful when making such statements. With regard to what you asked me, Mr Colleague, I would like to tell you that the death of the prisoner in Morocco has already been given by the appropriate prosecutors to Larissa and Amphissa to investigate the causes of death. Also, there's been an autopsy, and we're waiting for the results. But I want you to take note of the dates for which you need to be aware. I would therefore like to say that on 23 and 24, there was a mild illness, with regard to the pain, etc., to the prisoner. He was given immediate painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs by the prison office. There was no improvement. On the 27th, he returned to the prison office and was treated with antibiotics. You, who are a doctor, understand the course of this case. Note that she's been in school these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u5	Minister, can you continue in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u6	I'll be done in a few seconds. On 29 January, that is, after two days, it was transferred to the Lidoriki Health Center and examined by a dentist, because I must tell you that the prison does not have a dentist. Although we have asked, there has been no interest. So he went to the Health Center, where he was examined by a dentist, who found that he has a problem quite seriously, but he has to be examined by a general surgeon. That is why he left prison immediately and the Health Center and on February 1st was transferred to the Larissa Prison, where a date had already been booked for consideration on February 5th. Unfortunately, it ended up. I told you about the dates. You can see there was a constant interest in prison employees for the prisoner. The results of the judicial and prosecution investigation and autopsy will give us a clear picture. Because, if necessary, the procedures for moving it from Morocco to Larissa should have been initiated in urgent procedure. But these are medical issues too. We are waiting for the full clarification of this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I respect the President's problem. I could say too much. I have no doubt, Minister, and I have no reason to doubt what you are saying. However, they are many and dense. On January 29th, a seropositive is hung in the prisons of Korydallos. On February 5th, a three-year-old man killed himself in Alikarnassus prisons. On February 11th, a prisoner killed himself in the Trikala Police Department. I could tell you infinite examples. Here, I want to highlight three things: I believe that these people have rights. I will repeat that the state, every state that wants to believe has democracy, that is to guarantee them. I would therefore like you to reply to me. First of all, I'd like to give you a tip: Korydallos Hospital is in the name of a hospital. Very often, she only stays with nurses. There's no doctor. Generally - we are supposed to give power to these people, who are second-class people, not to use heavy expressions, but to us they have rights. We also have to ensure that these rights are guaranteed. I'm telling you, I remember being in one of Amsterdam's central coffee when I saw two people drinking coffee. They told me he was the guard with the defendant. I heard he was convicted in eighteen years. I still remember that when they wanted to call, they weren't in line for fifty people on a pay phone. What stops us from giving these rights? I'm talking about issues that have something to do with their lives. I am not going to culture - because my friend, the President, is right, because he is alone - I am talking about matters relating to the health of these people. I believe that these issues must be interconnected. And I want an answer from your ministry. Let's not leave it on the manager and the penitentiary officers. At any time, there must be a link to all these problems by a man you will have designated - or that we will have set - for the problems of these people. Tomorrow there is a conference - I do not want to be too late - which I will be watching. I'll be more detailed when I get this information, when this conference takes place, organized by an old journalist, Ioanna Sotiroux. There, it will be the whole world that cares about the rights of these people. Never away from us is the attitude of the 'white' cells, that these people are misplaced, are fourth class, and it must be the concept of 'priority' at last gaining content. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I will not go back to the issue of the detainee who died on 2 February, because, as I said, it is a public prosecutor's investigation, two local prosecutors and we are also waiting for the results of the autopsy. Mr Papachristopoulos, at all times and at any time we are at your disposal to inform you of the conclusion that we will have in our hands. I will fully agree, ladies and gentlemen, that human rights are also judged at the level of the rights of the detainees and, unfortunately, you are well aware of the situation that our Government received in January 2015. It was a reproach for democracy and constitutionally established human rights, to the extent that Greece not only had been observed, but had a large number of condemnations from the European Court of Human Rights. The Greek court also arrived at an acquittal of an indictment who escaped due to the inhumane circumstances in the detention store that was a prisoner. That is where we had arrived, ladies and gentlemen. Today this situation, Mr Papachristopoulos, has largely changed, especially in regional shops. I would like to say, however, that there is a problem in the Cricket. That is precisely why I spoke to you earlier about this strategic plan, which we will implement a step-by-step step. However, I would like to stress something that concerns human dignity and the health measures we take in detention stores. The first thing I want to say is the legislative initiative for the full integration of the Psychiatric Inmates of Korydallos and the Hospital into the National Health System. I have already signed the presidential decrees with Mr. Xanthos and we await the signatures of Mr. Gavroglou and Mr. Juliarakis to end up with the President of the Republic. It's a big incision. And I would like to point out to you, Mr Papachristopoulos, and to all my fellow Members, that at this time in detention stores are serving a total of thirty-five doctors. Of course, as in the Moroccan prison I mentioned earlier, the state and the State and the Ministry of Justice have invited doctors to work, but there is no corresponding interest. Also, with regard to staffing, I would like to say that the upcoming recruitment of the ESS includes nine posts of doctors and five posts of nurses. A total of twenty further doctors were added to the penitentiary, because the situation was desperate in this area. We made extensive repairs to hospitals in detention stores. I would particularly like to refer to the legislative initiatives that we have taken on the single 'patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient-to-patient', the law that we have recently adopted on modernising treatment measures for mentally ills. I would also like to stress in particular that the government has taken a major initiative on the issues of detainees who were drug users. And I would like to mention to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in particular, the structure that operates in the prisons of the Thessaloniki Passengers, our country where it was a parity on these issues and constantly indicted, praised and considered this structure as a model for all of Europe. This is the great development and the great leap forward made by the government in the area you have referred to. Also, in the field of modernization, I would like to say that we have already introduced the electronic prescription system for penitentiary shops. One last thing I want to tell you is that they're already in four detention stores, four prisons, telepsy services. Because you know that our fellow people, who have committed serious offences to be in prison at the moment, are also experiencing such phenomena, which we must also see and help them to overcome. Prison is not a recreational area, but a difficult space with many limitations and rules. However, the rights of detainees should be respected and the state in any case should be deprived of what it has announced. Finally, I would like to say to you - and I also to the National Representation - that the Ministry of Justice has also issued a special brochure on suicide so that prisoners know the symptoms so that they do not end up in awarded deeds. That is why this brochure has been published, which I present to you, for information. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned brochure, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we received, as I said, was an unacceptable situation for a civilised Member State of the European Union. Today the second opportunity schools, which we have founded, the vocational training institutes, the reception areas of the children and families of the detainees give another picture of the Greek prisons. Also, the measures we have taken for the medical treatment of the detainees have also been greatly improved. However, I am used to saying that we have done quite a lot of these three years, but more needs to be done, because in the area of the rights of detainees there has been a great deal of delay and a great deal of delay. Therefore, here we have an area in front of us, in which we can also make demands, as well as announcements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u11	Here is the first question under number 1156/27-2-2018, the first question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot, Minister, begin my position otherwise, as I accepted a sms just before the planned dialogue - a counterpart for the "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki". I have also made relevant reference to users of methadone, the substitute, and those who listen to me in Thessaloniki know that in the centre of the city boys and girls, their shadows, they are trying to solve - with or without introductorys - their problem. Hot request, Minister, to reply to this report I have made. It is the third tool we use as parliamentarians to exercise our parliamentary control. I come directly to the point on which I have the honour of addressing you by transferring a pandemic request from Thessaloniki. This is the third time I came after the camp "Pavlou Mela", which after thirty-forty years this government granted the Municipality of Paul Mela, because it considers that the former camps are public property - land bank belonging to the citizens, the inhabitants of Thessaloniki. The second was for the Camp "Kodra" on the other side of the city, in the east, in Kalamaria, where it was also attributed to the Municipality of Kalamaria for useful uses, culture, etc. The third request is this for the "Karatasius" camp, which I know is at least pretty complicated. My request is set, Minister, Mr Polakis, by two assumptions and three criteria. The two main assumptions, which are welcome, are, first, the donation of 200 million from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to improve or create infrastructure in the public health sector. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second welcome is the priority given to the government of the three aims of making use of this amount, as I have said, of health infrastructures, including the 'Thessaloniki Paediatric Hospital', which, I am sure, represents a deficit and a request for decades for Thessaloniki. In my humble opinion, the choice of space, which is, if you want, disagreement, control and effort, creative contribution to make the best possible, Minister, must comply with the following three criteria: Firstly, it should be an optimal choice possible and realistic. Secondly, to satisfy the highest public interest and, thirdly, to exploit the former camps within Thessaloniki, which are public property - land bank, precisely to welcome maximum social functions of value and importance to the community as a whole, such as the ‘Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki’. The space, Minister, which, not only in my view, but in the opinion of the local society of Thessaloniki, meets these three criteria, is the space of the forty acres in a total of seven hundred acres of the former "Karatasiou" Camp, which are in direct contact with the Regional Road of Thessaloniki. The important thing is accessibility and accessibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like, if you are kind, Minister, to see a descent of Thessaloniki that I have brought, so that it can be understood by the naked eye, because the choice you are discussing, in which you have concluded, does not seem appropriate. Here's the Fillar. Here is the Internal Regional: Eusmos, Toumba and Kalamaria. This is the ex-Caratsiu Camp, which is seven hundred acres. Of these, we ask for the forty who are in contact with the district, because exactly across the street is the hospital of Papageorgiou and the 424 General Military Hospital of Education, already two hospitals to deal with complex incidents, if and when selected. Here there will be a metro stop, in the branch that comes for western Thessaloniki. And the new couple whose baby has thirty-nine and half a fever, whether it's in Eusmos, whether it's in Toumba, or it's in Kalamaria - and that's what I'm proving to you - in ten or twelve minutes will be at the "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki". Plus, here is the Egnatia Street, which will satisfy functionally in terms of accessibility and accessibility and all neighboring Prefectures - Pella, Kilkis, Imathia, Pieria. So here's the Egnatia Street, without lights, with direct accessibility. For the rest, which concerns the pandemic request, depending on your reply, I will give you specific information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u16	My dear colleague, unfortunately, will not satisfy you. After a great deal of effort, and since there has been an exhaustive dialogue with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and with the healthcare regions, we have concluded and signed the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Greek state and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the grand donation of 250 million, which will be directed towards the design, construction and equipment of the Komotini Hospital, the design, construction and equipment of the "Pedia" Hospital of Thessaloniki, which concerns all of Greece, the PET SCAN market, which will complement the markets that we are now doing, to acquire the competence of the public sector in this new technology, the design, construction and equipment of the building that will be built up in the place that the "Country of Brothers and Brothers' and Sisters" buildings are currently in the "Electronicism" market, and of course equipment and of course the supply of new equipment, which concerns the EKAV, with the purchase of two aircraft and have not been built, as well as well as they have been, by the NAS. To be clear, I would say to you that it is easy for a debate to be held which says 'that is what has to be done here, that is what has to be done there'. However, we are in a country where its bureaucratic mechanism, pluralism, this trophy of provisions, can cancel or delay the implementation of certain things in an unseen time. You said yourself at first that this camp is involved. Because it is the camp involved, that means we can eat, as this system that we have in this country is structured, seven years to end. But we want all these things to be implemented. That is why we have chosen an area that is in Filipro, which you have shown. From what I'm told, and those with the responsibility from the Health Region, it has an adequate space of about forty acres, it's seven and a half kilometers from the regional four and a half kilometers. There is access by buses, which can be improved, and this improvement will be a task of both the Greek state and the region. The "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki" which will cover all of northern Greece and with an oncological clinic and others can be well built. It will have about two hundred and fifty beds that we think are enough to meet the needs of the child population. This is the property of the Ministry of Health. So we're not in any way involved, because I'm not hiding you that there was an attempt to be made in Thessaloniki in another place. Only there eventually, on the supposed free plot that both the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the rest, there were seven others, eight owners. As regards the camp you are also saying, apart from the fact that there are owners, there are also spaces being used, apart from the fact that other spaces have been imprisoned, we will also be in a process of compensatory benefit to the Armed Forces. So this whole process, I think, will be delayed, will be extended to a great time horizon. Since this is not only strictly for the Thessalonians, but for all northern Greece, I believe that the position we are choosing, since the plot belongs to the Ministry of Health - so it can be granted immediately to start projects and work - I think it is the best and visible solution to implement this donation in a visible time horizon and not to get involved in procedures that can be drawn too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u17	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u18	Minister, forgive me, but you know the phrase you used 'I will not satisfy you'...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u19	Okay, that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u20	I don't want to describe it. And I will prove this to you immediately: First, at a happy or unfortunate juncture last Monday 26 February, the first street and the first schools that closed were in the Municipality of Pylaea - Chortiatis. I read and will testify in the Minutes: "The schools in Chortiatis, Calciumhori, Extreme and Fillar due to continued snowfall for precautionary reasons will remain closed today". It is what the local press pointed out and is - if you like - the agony and my anxiety, because both Filipro and "Karatasios" in the Municipality of Pavlos Mela are western Thessaloniki. I will soon prove to you that the local community is also up to its responsibilities. Forget the Triantafylide. Forget the vote. We are talking here about a choice for the next 50 years and it is not about Polakis or Triantafylides or SYRIZA. I'm reading you, give me a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Triantafylides, I didn't answer before, so that we don't continue with it, that personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Polakis, hold what you want to say, so you can answer your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Triantafylides, it is understood that "I will not satisfy you" was at the edge of the speech and not personal, so do not continue with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u24	Good, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u25	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u26	I come to those who have to, because we are obliged as government, we are obliged as Members of the government to listen. And it is a difficult place for the Member who controls when he is a member of the majority. Why? I read: "As the Municipality of Pavlos Mela we are completely in agreement with the request of SYRIZA MP Alexandros Triantafyllidis concerning the timely question to the relevant Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos Andreas on the establishment and operation of "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki" in an area of the former Camp "Karatsiou", which is located in our municipality". Mayor Demetrios Demortzides is signed. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] "We are in favour of the establishment and operation of a Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki in an area of the former Camp "Karatsiou", located in the Municipality of Paul Mela," says Mayor Velocipou - Menemen Lazaros Kizoglou, who is also the President of the Regional Association of Municipalities of Central Macedonia. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] "The development of health structures - especially for young children - is a vital issue for society as a whole. We therefore inform you that our municipality consents to the construction of a child hospital in the former Camp "Karatasiou". Mayor Evosmos - Cordelius Petros Soulas is signed. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to Theodossis, Bakoglidis, who is mayor on the eastern side of the city and is especially honoured that he also sends me a letter to which he says: "As you know, our city lacks an autonomous pediatric hospital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the basis of the timely question by SYRIZA MP Alexandros Triantafylides, the request for the establishment and operation of the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki on the site of the former Camp "Karatasios" finds us fully in agreement. Mayor Kalamarias signs. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the fifth - they are the five of the six mayors of the town complex, you do not satisfy or you do not satisfy me, and that is why I have spoken about the ever-increasing demand of Thessaloniki - the mayor of Naples - Sigion Simo Danielides: "On the occasion of the public debate that has recently developed for the construction of a children's hospital in western Thessaloniki, I am returning and sending you my detailed statement on the issue that you can properly use." He proposes that four hospitals be made in the former “Karatasio” camp. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close with the metropolitan who spoke about classism in western Thessaloniki, where Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said: "From the moment the metropolitans started talking about class choices, then something good has to happen in this country." He's a lighted hierarch, offering eight and a half thousand piles a day. He doesn't address curses like some other right-wing beacon. He's a lighted hierarch. He signs and says: "Karatashiu camp." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Local society and Church agree. And today, believe me, I was overwhelmed by messages from all the paediatric clinics. It is important to say from the heart a great well for doctors, nurses, nurses for the huge, titanic work they do in the paediatric clinics, which are scattered throughout the hospitals of Thessaloniki. All of these will be exploited. Finally, Mr Minister, my last word is: put your hand in the heart and make a decision. What you said I really understand. Above all, this sponsorship must be exploited. It's a ten-minute matter. With the presence of the Panos of Kammenos, to which I have also submitted a question - not being discussed today due to his mission abroad, he will be discussed the next Monday - because he will sign up for, together with Euklidis Tsakalotos, why they insert the ETHA - National Defence Fund - with the Ministry of Finance Exchange Service and create the problem and do not give you the best option that is the former "Karatasios" Camp, which is on the regional area and does not need to go five kilometers up in the mountains and mountains to have a problem with the first snowfall, to sit on a table and there say with an amendment one and a half series: "The forty of the seven hundred acres of the ex-Cartasios camp "Karatasios" are given to the Ministry of Health, with the sole purpose of constructing and functioning of the Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u27	But, Mr. Comrade, you can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u28	I'm closing, Mr. President. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation did the major, gave the money. You as a government in ten minutes, if there is political will, you can give a solution. I would urge you, please, as early as possible, that it can be done with a series of amendments to the law, to be guaranteed, to have clean ownership, to have no problem with the foundation and thus to make the best choice and to serve the highest public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleagues, unfortunately I will not satisfy you again. As far as you are concerned, there are other similar examples. You've only answered why we can't. You said it to the end. There is a judicial dispute between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of National Defence. There are also a number of service actors below, apart from the political choice, because they are also the property of the funds, they are not the Ministry of National Defence. For example, the Markopoulos Camp in Chania has been a request from the local society since 1958. Based on the existing legislation, it was now possible to give the Municipality of Chania, in exchange for 5% of the objective value of the plot. Because there is a judicial dispute between the two Ministries, whether they win or the other, there will be the question of how and in return for them. Because before you said about the concession of the camp "Pavlou Mela", there was a return to the Ministry of National Defence, as far as I know, to be granted to the municipalities etc. ........................................ Because we have this plot, because this plot is clean, work can be started immediately. It concerns all northern Greece and not just Thessaloniki. And there are too many hospitals in Athens that, as regionally, welcome patients from other areas, who are not close to the housing fabric. They are farther than the residential tissue, the core of the city. I think that at the moment the best solution to go ahead rather than do two years to decide is the place we have chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the second with number 1160-27-2-2018 top cycle question of the New Democracy MP Mr.Kissos Economou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "SOS for Pathological Clinics and the Psychiatric Section of the General Hospital of Nice Piraeus". Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, health for the New Democracy really is very high in its programme and in its political aiming. It is a major issue. That is why the health sector and I as a sector leader, as well as Jason Fotellas as deputy chief and many selected members of our sector, by order of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, are moving across the country and we are monitoring firsthand how health structures are moving and how the National Health System is trying to stand, running, at its feet. Yesterday I returned from Yannina, where I visited the university hospital and the "Hatzicosta" Hospital. A few days ago we were in Corfu and we saw too many hospitals. Of course, we'll continue. We've come to see some sixty-five public hospitals, and we've got so many more. Among the hospitals we visited was the “General Hospital of Nice”, a seafaring hospital, one of the largest of the country with six hundred 50 beds. For the West Attica, in fact, it is one of the largest hospitals that in on-call days have 3.5 million population reporting. Our visit was accompanied by a painful surprise. A little too much hospitals can rank them in a good, modest, or bad situation. There are elements in which they are lacking and others in which they are disadvantaged. But at the Hospital of Nice we were really in front of a painful surprise. The pathological clinic on the 1st floor was tragic. I could call them the "Kostalexi" of the National Health System. I was really surprised. I told you I've visited too many hospitals these six months. I didn't expect there might be people in cages who were supposed to be rooms, with one or two beds, with two toilets for thirty patients, the wall being collapsed, the bricks, etc. I do ask anyone who deals with social cohesion and social solidarity to visit the 'Nice General Hospital' - if anything has happened to him at a personal level - to see how dramatic the situation is. I am pleased that you, Minister, Mr Polakis, have come today because I know that you have also been nursed in the hospital and you have done your specialty there. Our visits there are not opposition visits. Through the visits we make as a field in hospitals, we are neither going to make detectives nor gaulaters or gullets. Let's go see the problems and see how we can contribute. Our questions, as you can see, from the ones that come to you, are questions that are trying to highlight and illuminate difficult grey areas of hospitals, in case you go and give light and solutions. It has made me a terrible impression: While you are three years Minister at the Ministry of Health, in the hospital you have started, how do you allow this situation to be perpetuated? I would say that that is where you should give first of all your examinations, the credentials of a successful or not-successful minister. There, then, this has made me personally a terrible impression, seeing this dramatic situation. I expect you to listen to a plan. You're going to tell me, why do you have to deal with this? Let it go, SYRIZA loses votes. But that's not the point. This is now a humanitarian matter, Mr President. If you go to see it, it's a "Kostalexi" situation, if you remember the known case with the dramatic situations. Of course, we didn't go - they told us "when you go to Psychiatry..." - in the psychiatric clinic, which is ten times worse than what we saw in pathology. I made my cross! I say: 'If it's ten times worse...'! We didn't want to bother the patients there and the people and we didn't get in, but the situation in the pathology of the first floor and the psychiatric clinic is dramatic. I'm appealing. The SOS we put to the question is real, it's real. You must do something, because this will fall upon you as a dramatic situation and accompany you throughout your entire term as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Minister, before you answer, I have two announcements to make to this House. First of all, we have a licence application. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis asks for a short-day absence from abroad, namely: "Mr President, as I have been given a short-day leave from Monday, March 5th to Thursday, March 8th because of my absence abroad. In appreciation, Photini Arabatzis, MP of the New Democracy Serres." Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u34	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and a professor from the School of Journalism of "ANT1". Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Economou, thank you for the timely question. The Hospital of Nice is a hospital that has left a part of my life and there I have been manned both medically and politically and trade unions in the health sector. And if what you saw, going to the amphitheatre to make the meeting, you consider it "Kostalexi", I don't know what character you would give for the 1990s, where I specialize and up to the greatest strike in the health system of the country, which took place in 1997. This hospital used to watch day after day with "Juneo", which is now on guard every four days and which alone was the result of this mobilization - because it was not only that result - it was a huge relief of the hospital, because it was a campaign hospital, because it was practically at the time of the "Attica", the university hospital, which now lifts a very large weight of West Attica's on-site on-site on its own in the Western Attica. The result of that mobilisation, in addition to the change of on-call from day to day on a three-day initial and four-day thereafter, was that - since then, this money has been made - the pathological anatomic has left the underground, the artificial kidney unit left where there were new buildings built - was the result of racing this thing - and of course the building for the emergency department, where it has been transferred, because it was on the ground floor of the main building and the newspaper, just below the pathological clinics you saw, which some of them have been reconstructed from that decade onwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u36	We saw that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u37	Now, listen, because I don't want to make history, but I want to say some things. The State Hospital of Nice, unfortunately, was shattered and financially - very shattered - and we hadn't, because we took over in 2015. At the same time as the "Attica", which raises a corresponding burden, was financed by the state budget with approximately EUR 40-42 million, Nice was financed with 18 million, bringing about the same burden of inventing. That's what you had budgeted back then. In the first year, these EUR 18.5 million we made 19.5 million euros and at the moment the state budget has reached EUR 24.354 000. But that's not all. This year, in addition to EUR 24 million from the state budget, the hospital received an additional EUR 8.5 million from EEAY. Correspondingly, 8m euros had been taken last year. So the hospital, Mr. Economou, has balanced, because at the moment the hospital, if it pays all its outstandings - not its dues, but its outstandings - will be in excess of the EUR 11 million fund. In this position, the hospital has never been found before. One thing we have done, therefore, is that we clearly support the hospital in order to be able to balance and not see any shortages of materials, medicines, reagents and anything else that is needed. That's the first. The second is that there has been, as in other hospitals in the country, a programme of assistance with staff, which has not yet been completed. There is still enough staff to come from the last notice, 7K, which was unacceptablely delayed by the AACC. But there have already been some seventeen permanent doctors over the last two years, plus many assistants, plus seventy-eight people, of whom fifty-six - I am talking about permanent staff from the notices that have been made so far - and others are still coming. I am not counting here on the others who have come through OAUs or those who have come as subsidiary staff, etc. Now, I would like to say one last word on the subject you say on the first floor. In this hospital, we unlocked two things. One was the donation of the Foundation "Angelikosis", which was lost in some service drawers from the region to the Ministry. This is going to reconstruct the neurosurgery clinic and calculate delivery within four months. We have also unleashed a study which the Attica Region has undertaken to finance with EUR 3.5 million for the construction of all this floor, because the construction of the top floors has taken precedence. The CFP for three years has not gone ahead. And you know why she wasn't moving on? Because, with the combination of the "DPAINMOS" and the corresponding construction of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which was built in the building infrastructure, there are now too many engineers - unfortunately at the "Metataxas" Hospital, at the "Juneo" Hospital and at the "Nice" Hospital, they have undertaken, before we take over, the studies that would be financed by the Region of Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u38	Minister, please, the rest you can say in your dentistry, because we have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u39	I would just like to say one word, Mr President. The "June" fortunately ended, the "Metaxa" moved on and the "Nice" Hospital retired. That is why we intend to publish this project this year, until summer, because it is the funding that is guaranteed for two years and it sits down. But, as you know, without study, something can't go ahead. Unfortunately, here there are very clear responsibilities of an administrative mechanism, which has the study and can adapt it to what has been done on the second and third floors of the hospital. But for a year and a half he has done nothing at all in that direction. Until Mr Spirtzis met on this subject, in order to "on the type of suns" the responsibilities of an administrative mechanism and a service mechanism in the building infrastructure, which does not complete the studies to open the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u40	All right, Minister, the rest you can tell in your dentistry. Thank you. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have no legislative work today to ensure that all the Members of Parliament are present today. You are following a parliamentary scrutiny procedure, where some of the Members of Parliament on matters of interest ask the respective ministers and the ministers answer them. That is why there are few Members present. It is not a classic function of the House. I say this to you, so that you can have the real picture and do not think that the House operates with five, seven or ten Members. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u41	I was not satisfied with the Minister's answer because I specifically ask him and identify my question about the pathology of the first floor and the psychiatric. I am not opening the debate, because it is a great hospital and it is really a health structure that is aimed at millions of people and socially sensitive areas, such as the West Attica. We could also open a debate on the staff. His 'partner' - I don't know if he's still a friend to date - I don't like him very much. I'm using him to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u42	We're barons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Papanikolaou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u44	I married him. I have also baptized his daughter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u45	There it is! They're condolences, too. He doesn't like me. She keeps expressing it. He says 50% staffing at the Hospital of Nice today. He says that eighteen emergency cases, instead of going to the ICU, went to the clinics and people escaped to the clinics. These are situations of the third world. But not only to make use of such evidence, I will tell you this. There are here - and I have them in my hands - the demands of all the municipalities of the 2nd and 1th Piraeus. The Vice-President and all - and I cannot say that he is in favour of the New Democracy - are not people who are party politicians - say that the problem is huge. The Minister must understand something. The money he says in theory exists. There were five hundred grand in 2015. Started a study. He's gone a six hundred. We arrived in November 2016 - you are well aware of this - the study is supposed to be completed, we now arrived in January, we went to March 2018 and the study is nowhere. He doesn't know if he's putting the blame on the old DEPANOM and on the whole bureaucratic system of engineers who don't go any further. But, Mr President, you understand that, when there is money and is supposed to be committed to a specific operation, to make this dump, and that does not go any further, it will be loaded by the Minister. The Minister actually made a memory of the heroic games an old age. Today, however, the situation is dramatic. I will not compare the Hospital of Nice of 2018 with the Hospital of Nice of 1990 or 1980. I will compare Nice with the "Attica" today, with the other hospitals in Greece, to see where this really great hospital is placed in the hierarchy and in the placement of what we call the National Health System. So I say that the studies must go ahead. I also hope that this study you're talking about, Angelosis' donation for the neurosurgery clinic will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u46	It's already begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u47	All right, now! It's started, but you can move on. But this is a small donation, it's for the neurosurgery clinic. Go ahead. But the big and major problem is another. You know that better than I do, so I wonder. Because making a pathological clinic in a hospital throughout the country is good, but as long as this situation exists in the pathological clinics of the first floor of the Nice Hospital, it will characterize you, Mr Polakis, whatever you do, beyond the heroic and racing old mobilizations or situations that you have described us now. So what's going on today? I and the people watching us want concrete answers and commitments and to come here again, to make a visit and see if something does not move. But unfortunately, after you have spent three years of your service and no one sees anything, I fear that your circle will be completed and you will be left with the signal that you left this "Kostalexi".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Colleague, thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u49	I would also like to give you some other information at the time, Mr Colleague, so that you can have a more comprehensive picture. We see the late demonstration of interest in "State of Nice", while in the years you were government you had it in the very large sub-funding and preferential transfer of resources elsewhere due to commitments to university departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u50	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u51	The New Democracy. I don't want to extend this conversation any more. It was the first answer I gave you. First, when you build a hospital, it's that this hospital must have sufficient material means to do its job. The first is that. There are a number of hospitals in the country that have old hotel equipment. That is why we have made this whole story through the Public Investment Program, through the Ministry of Health Reserve, through the use of the NRP resources, so that these things can be improved. This has been done in many parts of Greece. The situation is not at this point where you describe it and put it so strongly. Especially in daytimes, this thing is happening. The topic is: This hospital has been funded from our own resources by the Ministry of Health with 480,000 in 2015 for the purchase of equipment - and all of this was purchased - with 652,000 in 2016 for the purchase of equipment, with 352,000 in 2017 for the purchase of equipment, machinery and infrastructure to deal with the practice of medicine. Secondly, at the moment the entire history of the delay for this project - for which the Attica Region has committed these 3 million euros - has to do with the failure of the study by the 'CITIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS'. There have been two - three meetings on this, but, because they can no longer give out the studies, there is a delay procedure. I told you before, but you did not understand that there was a meeting under Mr Spirtzi on this matter. In addition to the donation of the Niarche who created the armor-surgery clinic, in addition to the donation of Angelosis who makes the neurosurgery clinic - which we "surgered" again because of the bureaucracy that I said before - we have committed all 4 million euros to buying Cyberknife, which will be the first to enter the country. And not only that, but we also committed 750,000 of the 2018 Public Investment Programme to convert the place that will welcome the machine. Unfortunately, these are heavy, large projects. There was a very big effort not to take this machine to "General State Nice", because there can't be a hospital that we have lower to get a machine that no one else has in the country. I think that when in four or five months' time these will have been completed, then you will see the footprint to be left at the General State Nice, since we have managed to balance it and strengthen it at the level of staff in all possible forms. You are right - I say it - as regards the delay in the study. Unfortunately, it does not pass on from our hand, because this study was given to the "CRITERIA INDUSTRIES" before 2015. Note: This study from 2014 that took it, until the end of 2016 that we changed the administration to "General State of Nice", had not done anything at all. They didn't even get her. Since then, since the end of 2016, he started moving. It should be done. It will be completed soon and that is why this work will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthraki, you have two topical questions. If the Minister agrees, do you want to unify them without depriving them of time? You'll have the normal time for both. I am simply saying this so that other Members do not expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u53	I'm afraid it won't work against each other. Since it's going to be the same time, I prefer it to be discussed separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u54	As you prefer. Subsequent to the fifth under number 1147/26-2-2018, a top-level question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The permanent solution to the occupational insecurity and reimbursement of workers in cleanliness and feeding to PANGN's Hospitals and Venizelos”. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the workers in the cleanliness and care at the Hospitals of the University Hospital of Heraklion and Venizelos are once again in insecurity, hostage and unpaid work. All of this is happening, despite the promise you made to the workers, the Ministry of Health, the Government as a whole, the hospital administration, the 7th Ministry of Health, that by recruiting them, on the basis of the notice in the autumn of 2017, they would ensure their work for two years. The workers so far live in fear of having a job the next day. They constantly experience the mockery, the frustration of the administration, the government. Once again they experience this fear of payment after the signing of individual contracts in December 2017. The Commissioner did not approve the payment orders. Based on the existing reactionary framework, it took the view that the contracts are not lawful, on the one hand, because they are considered to be continuing for older workers subject to the law for twenty-four months, on the other hand, because for all contracts cannot be in force beyond 2018, on the basis of the legislation in force. The workers, with direct, dynamic mobilisation in the 7th RCD, with the coordination of the employees of the two hospitals, on a common front of permanent and contractors and with requests covering their real needs, have achieved results. As a Communist Party of Greece we welcome this common, unified struggle, the racing preparedness of workers. The warrants, as the Deputy Commander of the 7th RCD informed, were signed a week ago, as has been said to the workers, will be discussed in Parliament, an amendment which will ensure their work by the end of the contract, at the end of 2019. Incidentally, tell us whether this is the case and give us a picture of the content of the amendment. Are the workers satisfied? Part of it. When they put the knife in your throat, of course, any temporary suspension of the slaughter is also a breath. The government, however, may, Minister, play with these impressions. There are some unanswered questions left. Firstly, what will the thirty workers become in the feeding and cleaning of the two hospitals that are extended until June - July, if I am not mistaken? Secondly - and most importantly - what about the workers after the end of the contract, at the end of 2019? Same again? Unfortunately, the torment of the drop is intensifying insecurity, hostage, in the midst. For years, public health workers have been claiming that contractors should leave hospitals, that business activity should be abolished, that no one should be made redundant, that all contractors be permanently recruited on the basis of increased needs. We therefore ask you, Minister: What action - set a timetable, you said that the problem would be resolved with your specific employment relationship - will the government make to ensure that these jobs, permanent and stable work, with full work, wages and insurance rights and put an end to their employment insecurity and the repeated threat of redundancy? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Synatiakis, it really gives me the impression that you're giving us a resignation for one thing we've given for two years and samples of writing and soul and heart and struggle. If it were not for us in the government, there would be no "collapsing" to say so quite simply. Over the past few years, when contractors in all the hospitals in the country were building up on the working rights of workers underneath, who had them in perfect terms, no one had done anything at all. I do not remember any mobilization in those years of 'black galley'. Was there any exceptions to the right - left? Maybe. They didn't fall into my sight and I'm watching press and newspapers. At the moment, now that we have succeeded in getting rid of the contractors through a terrible - and - judicial war - and I will say examples - you are coming and, if they are late in paying any month, you say: 'The government is throwing them at the tarts of labour insecurity. And what about 2019? And what about 2020? And what will happen in 2030?" At the moment, yes, we are giving a match of trenches with a system of intertwining, which we slowly draw from the hospitals and every one we win is a great victory. For the 'Evangelism', for example, we did not see you say any good that we pushed the contractor, who was threatening. They took up a service of two hundred and eighty people in cleanliness there, with much better pay, more than EUR 300 and more in their pockets, and the hospital saves a total of EUR 1 million a year, while the workers get this increase. The same is happening in almost all of Greece. Here, unfortunately - because the levels of reaction are multiple - as you know, there are hospitals, for example, the "branches" to which we have been blocked by a temporary order. Or even worse - and here I denounce this publicly - what happened the other day in the 'Attica'. That is where the judge ordered - and it will not, of course - two months after workers had been employed in safekeeping to interrupt contracts. Two and a half months after service, the contracts were interrupted. And they didn't withdraw the decision on the request for revocation they made there. And at the same time that this is happening in the "Bigs", "Salvation" next to them, they have undertaken a service normally with individual contracts, again with much better wages, etc. As far as Crete is concerned, I am not saying why the matter has been resolved. For the second level, let us say, which is at some point delay, is the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors, who are making a special explanation of some things in relation to the eighteenth and twenty-fourth months and the repeated work, and some of them are putting a stop to signing the warrants. But they signed them. And, in order to resolve this, we will in fact bring this amendment to Wednesday, signed by Mrs Gerovas, Mr Skourletis, Mrs Ahtsoglou and us, by the Ministry of Health. It's practically sorting it out. Because employment contracts, which are carried out on the basis of criteria laid down in the AACC, are considered to be new contracts and practices, are also open to those who are currently serving in the new tenders that will be opened, because the eighteen or twenty-four months end, without being vaccinated, because there is a need and a greater public interest. Because if, in order to allow those who are serving today to participate in the tender, they have to be fired first three months, then this hospital should either be cleaned or reinstated as a contractor, which we do not want to do. We would like you to support this amendment in the draft education legislation which goes down tomorrow. On the subject of Heraklion, it has been resolved. The whole question will be dealt with, so that we do not have these objections from Commissioners in the future. I told you the amendment. And I think that, generally speaking, you should recognize to the government the effort it is making. Unfortunately, in the Memorandum of Understanding that we are living until August 2018, we cannot have the possibility of calling permanent jobs at this level at the present time. That's the answer, and I don't think I need to go second. I would ask you to move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. You say you have given soul and heart as government. The workers, however, Mr. Paulis, are bleeding every day so that they can secure a living...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u60	That's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u61	...to make their family planning so their families can survive. One would have expected, based on the promises you made since 2015 and before 2015, to have resolved basic labour issues. And you don't solve them, but you're getting them out of carved, of course, because of the Memorandum commitments. "Unfortunately" you said "due to the Memorandum of Understanding", which you accepted. You accepted these Memorandum commitments. Listen, what you're saying has no power for your fighting government. Because the fight and mass mobilisation outside the 7th RC in Heraklion proves exactly the opposite. There is an anger and indignation among the workers, because they are unable to withstand this, namely to repeat the same issue at all times, the same problem and to prevent people from planning. It wasn't just payment. It was about this continuing uncertainty they are experiencing. The workers with their struggles gave the answer that they had to answer to both you and the government as a whole. They did, of course, respond to the various "pads" who said that these conventions ensure their jobs. Isn't that what those lads were saying? In other words, with what you do, with public contractors, would make their position clear and that they need to trust the government, the Ministry of Administration and so on. The problem of lasting job vacancies, sometimes even redundancy, is not just a problem of bad coordination or bureaucracy or simply of the enemy Commissioner. It is a result of a profound anti-grassroots perception and policy, which this government has adopted, like previous ones, in the field and health sector, which considers the patient to be cost, baptising the management of poverty in hospitals as rationalisation and rescheduling of the health system, sub-financing as a waste band, flexible labour relations as flexibility and a response to the budgetary pressure that you receive. You are hitting on real problems that your predecessors have left to justify faithful submission to the European Union and capital, the OECD directives on bloody primary surpluses, cut budgets, business and contractors. Work experience, whether private or state, does not cease to be contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I would refer you to the contract given by the hospital administration to the workers to sign a franchise contract. This is a state contraction. Do you have anything to say about her? I told you last year in a debate we had been having here. The next objective of individual contracts in cleanliness, feeding, storage, etc. Under this uncertainty regime, and regardless of any arrangements you will make, an amendment which we will, of course, also look at and have no question of, whether or not it ensures, even at some temporary level, that workers say 'no' - we will, of course, see it when we take it - this whole course therefore recommends that these services be incorporated into so-called cooperatives. We're very afraid of that. You are, of course, taking up this point for social cooperatives, which, in our view, is a step towards privatising and further violating labour rights. The workers, in our view, cover fixed, permanent hospital needs. They work daily under very unfavourable conditions, as a result of a lack of personnel. We think they are entitled to be treated completely differently. That is why we also call on the workers to be vigilant. However, the main question remains that in 2018 the worker must enjoy permanent, stable work, with full insurance, wage and pension rights. We will insist on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u63	I don't have much to say now, because she's a red thread tied to the wind of the thing. It's all the same again. When we get out of the memorials, we will have arrived in the Paulian state, we will prepare the society of free cooperative producers, of freely thoughtful people, and we will resolve the opposition of man - nature, then we will have no objection between us. The point is, at the moment, that you have to make politics and other things to do ideology. What you are describing is the social relationships that have been experienced at the moment and the injury of the country, as has been done after eight years of memoranda, practically it cannot be done. What could be done, on the basis of both the institutional framework and the cuffs that we had passed on to us, was what we did, which we did at the beginning to get the same people working inside. The Council of State dropped it. It is one of the two decisions that the Council of State has taken, to understand both the size and the importance they attach to. The first was the one on the channels, the second decision was the one that threw the history of project contracts in hospitals for cleaning, feeding and keeping. We didn't come back. We've made laws again. We have put in employment contracts that have more working rights and have more employment rights, and of course, those who bleed are paid. Because we did so many years ago, and in the thick cows, when we were not in the memoranda, which had contractors back then, I do not remember having any such great mobilisation against contractors. I don't remember that. Now that this government, in this context, is trying to do something that is charitable you say "Ah, it doesn't do us. We want the maximum." Well, we can't, we don't do politics like that, guys! We don't make politics like that. I think the workers understand and support. I, too, use your question to say that we will continue this in the hundred and thirty hospitals, because in a number of cases we have been blocked by court decisions and indeed by a reason that is terrible: that is to say, doing this is against the company's profits. This is described in a judicial decision, at the same time as another judge says that it is of course for the benefit of the public interest and for the benefit of the workers what is being done. Everyone, of course, takes their own conclusions because this is happening at some points and somewhere else is not happening. So the issue there has been resolved. I think that a solution will also be given in the future with what I said, with the amendment. I think we don't have to say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the first under number 1158/27-2-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Measures for the dental treatment of children with special needs in the island country". Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, health services are of particular importance in improving the daily life of the citizen. Any reform in favour of safeguarding the social character of the state also goes through upgrading the health and care services provided to citizens. In particular, for islanders the requirements for health services imposed by the geomorphological and demographic specificities of the islands are top priority. That is why the state must stand with special attention to the small and large health issues on the islands, giving effective and functional solutions to minimising regional differences, in terms of citizens' access to health services, especially when it comes to the most sensitive groups, such as people with disabilities. Minister, the government's strategic choice for a quality and effective public health system focusing on removing inequalities in access and in good health, especially for the island country, is not just an objective, but a social obligation that requires an integrated approach and utilization of all the possibilities of the health system. An important and particularly sensitive part of the necessary health interventions in the island country are the actions relating to the prevention, treatment and treatment of dental problems for children with disabilities. A characteristic of the situation that children with disabilities and their families in the islands are now facing is the problem - a challenge for the possibility of complete provision of dental services on the ground, namely in public hospitals, such as at the General Hospital of Rhodes. With this solution, in a social and humanitarian problem that accuses the families of children with disabilities in Dodecanese and the other islands of the country, more quality and more effective health services will be provided to disabled people in Greece and at the same time the painful and costly transition of children to Athens' clinics will be considerably reduced. You are well aware that the cost of traveling and staying the weak AMEA and its escort from the island to a central hospital in Athens, when the weather allows it, is unbearable for the economic potential of the majority of the households of these individuals. This should also calculate the additional pressure and burden applied to the health structures of appropriate hospitals. Minister, the government - and you yourself - has shown social sensitivity in the island country, as is typical of the start of the intensive care facility at the hospital in Rhodes. Of course, it remains the operation of an autonomous volume section with a radiotherapy department in the same hospital. But that's why I'm going to talk in my dentistry. So we ask, Minister, what timetable will the government proceed with the process and the operation, in the appropriate scientific and organisational way, to the General Hospital of Rhodes, with qualified staff, with knowledge of the sensibilities of children with disabilities, for the more effective provision of dental services in the Dodecanese, in line with the real needs of the population?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Colleague, you're, in theory, right. The point is that it cannot be practically done. And I'll be very clear. We are a country that has hundreds of inhabited islands. At the moment, what we have chosen for these two years - and I think that in Rhodes and across the Aegean Sea in general we have proved it very specifically - was to support the system both with doctors and with staff and with funding and by opening one - and we will open more - an artificial kidney unit. I'm talking about Naxos and she's also getting ready for Ikaria, and we're gonna put Santorini in front. We strengthened and financed your own hospital to build a neonial intensive care facility. The Hospital of Rhodes was financed with a total of 16.5 million in 2017, when in 2015 it was financed with 9.5 million. It was also in 2014. It was strengthened by staff in order to be able to provide decent services to the populated residents and the most populous visitors on the island. We haven't solved all the problems. There's more to be solved. These two and a half years to date have been strengthened with a hundred forty - nine staff. I think we have made a lot of the debt we have as a state, as we did in Mytilini and in Chios and in Samos and in Lero and everywhere, with funding through public investment programmes and reserves to support islands. But we can't get everything everywhere. Because, based on the information we have collected and seen, secondary dental care is provided in two hospitals at the Hospital of Nice and at the Hospital of Voulas, where there is also the specialization of dentistry and the possibility of dental treatment under anesthesia. In these hospitals, which cover the entire 2nd RCD, but also a very large part of the land section of the 2nd RCD with a very large population, the total of the incidents is a hundred and fifty-seven per year in the State of Nice and a hundred twenty-nine incidents per year at the "Vula Asclipio". So, as you can see, we can't set sections, which can be that thing that you're talking about implementing for ten or fifteen incidents a year. If there is anything urgent and necessary, that is why we have strengthened the aerospace system. We have strengthened the aerospace system and we have given a lot of money to create new bases and infrastructures. We have strengthened our staff and the base of Rhodes Aerospace and the base of Syros, and now we are preparing to strengthen them upwards. So if there's anything urgent that can't be transferred, I think in a phase like this anaesthetic hospital, giving a neuroleptic analgesia and in collaboration with a dentist who knows how to do that, he can deal with it. A planned incident, which, due to the non-cooperation of these children, should be sleeping, drugged to enable dental intervention to take place, I do not think it can justify such a thing, especially for the Rhodes Hospital. There's a number of ten to fifteen incidents. I told you the numbers we have in hospitals. But he can't justify that. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u69	Minister, the dodecanese people have sent me here to control the power of you too, to implement a policy to which we have committed ourselves. From this point of view, we are both right and theoretical in practice, unfortunately. Practically, the image on the islands you know it, and you know it, because you are an islander. You are from a large island, of course, but the difficulties remain difficult. Apparently neither the hospitals in Crete have such units. So I think our voice will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u70	One is in PAGNE for all of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u71	Ah, he's got one in Crete. So I call on us to leave a little the technocratic perception and go to sensitivity, human sensitivity. And the cost is not measured by numbers in these individuals. These people need special treatment and special attention. It is not considered for us to develop, to maintain the marginalization of these social groups. It is a "collapsible" development, I would say a completely "usable growth", if we bet on maintaining this margin... The image of these kids, you know, makes a round of the internet. It creates sensitivities and obligations and the state, as well as the MPs who listen to these voices. There has been a proposal, which we are about to begin to implement and slowly to reach the desired result. Who's that? Persons with disabilities ask to plan so that at regular intervals a special unit can respond to such incidents at the General Hospital of Rhodes in order to serve these people. And through this visit, we can also get to the dentist's training at the hospital. They don't need much. There are acts of dentistry that can be done without the operating rooms. There are also acts for which we need to be brought to the O.R., and that is where only anesthetics need to be strengthened. We don't want anything new. We don't want anything terrible. We do not want a new unit that is'sitting' without employing the people who operate it. In addition, the dentists of Rhodes Hospital, as well as the Dental Association and society as a whole, are available to contribute to this direction of solving the problem. We want to give this image that we deserve, that is, the image of a civilised state and a government which does not live in numbers, remains in sensitivity and not in a technological perception, but in a humanitarian perception. Look at it again. We have a development conference in a few days and in Rhodes you should see this, but also the subject of the oncology section in the hospital. To be solved until then, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, just a minute to make a statement to this House: The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home, Digital Policy, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Migration Policy and Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Security, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Migration and Economic Affairs, and the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs and Finance, tabled a draft law on 5-3-2018: "I) Validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Endogenous Violence and Adaptation of Greek Legislation, II) Integration of 2005/214/JHA, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of criminals and III) Other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, I think I'm the last person I could be accused of a lack of social sensitivity. We've proved it together with Andreas, two years ago, as far as he doesn't go anymore. I think I've responded to protology. What's interesting about the dentistry you said, is that yes, that can be done. Organize an annual - or twice a year - a stairway visit from hospitals in the centre by planning some such interventions to children with a problem. That, yes, can be done and we can organise it. From this - why don't you say that to the question - until I make it part of Rhodes specifically for this thing, it's not a need that stays uncovered. With the same logic we should have at the Hospital of Chania a thing like this or at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, but there is one in Crete, at the University Hospital in Heraklion, where these children are gathered to address this problem. I understand the distance to Rhodes, however, which has regular transport, is not from the isolated islands or is linked only to a maritime instrument. Therefore, to organise under the responsibility of the 2nd Health Region, in cooperation with the hospital administration, a visit twice a year to cover these children, this can be considered and seen. The other thing you're saying, we can't do it right now at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Here is the tenth question under number 1123/20-2-18 of the New Democracy MP, George Vlachos, on the application of clawback to all contracted and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, L.4447/2016, and in particular Article 34 thereof, states that expenditure on health services provided by contracted private providers, as well as on the provision of medical devices and special nutritional supplements by contracted and not by the EEAS, may not exceed the permitted expenditure limits as set out in paragraph 4 of that Article. It is also clarified that the excess amount is sought by the EEAS either by health providers or by manufacturers, importers, distributors, suppliers, depending on whether the product is produced or imported into Greece. Subsequent to the above law, on 22-5-2017 with the FEK 1752, the permitted expenditure limits by category of supplied health service of medical devices are announced. As you can see, the comparative decision half the year and in particular its retroactive effect has caused a huge disruption to the contracted private health providers and to the contracted and non-producers or importers of medical devices, as these companies have already planned their corporate budget, including their costs for 2017, with the result that they are directly threatened with their viability. In fact, according to the second Ministerial Decision, the excess of the maximum permitted limits is sought by the companies mentioned above, burdening them with clawback at the retail price, which, of course, includes VAT and the profit of the distribution network, thus making the clawback possibly multiple the profits of the companies and certainly unfair. It does not need, Minister, to be an expert to understand that serious delays, as well as the way in which you have chosen the clawback, will cause a significant economic blow to many companies in the industry. Thus, importing companies were initially and hypothetically informed, pointing out that they do not have a contract and are not providers of the EEAS for a refund amount to the EEAS, clawback, to exceed expenditure from the 2017 budget. However, there was no information at the same time about either the amount of actual EEAS expenditure for 2016, nor about the amount of the 2017 budget for the product category concerned, so that companies knew the appropriate excess, nor how the clawback was calculated, so that no company could plan any commercial policy and no strategic planning. Minister, I will refer to the category of diabetes with an annual expenditure limit of EUR 60 million. No other information is available, although in the middle of the next five months, because this question has been tabled for about two months - the law said that the refund amount would be calculated on a six-month basis. Even at the end of the first half of the year, neither the amount of the actual expenditure until then by EOPY nor the method of calculation and how the refund will be levied on each company. In addition, it should be noted that if the amount of reimbursement requested by the companies is the amount resulting from the deduction of the total expenditure incurred less the authorised budget threshold, then this amount includes VAT as well as the profit of the EERC providers. How, therefore, can part of this amount be requested from the importing company, which can clearly be larger than the sales made in this category in certain species? In addition, it should be taken into account that, to date, neither the amount of actual expenditure nor the method of calculating the refund amount nor on which basis any clarification or information will be imposed by the EEAS. If, for example, the total cost reaches EUR 90 million, Minister, a company with 10% of the market will be asked to pay for the extra - 30 million -10%, 3 million. Furthermore, I must add that the cost of diabetes mellitus is closed, since the patient has a certain number of medicines and consumables, which can depending on the type of illness he has prescribed. So there is no possibility of a demand challenger and therefore what is the reason for clawback? So there is a risk of demanding back money, which is more than the turnover and, of course, the profits, by many companies, not to say from all the small companies, and if so, if my claim is correct, indeed to be shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u77	In conclusion, Mr President, I shall speak less in dentistry. That's actually my suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u78	You've reached five minutes, so I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u79	I will stop here then, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u81	Mr Vlao, the method and calculation of the automatic refund is described in very detailed terms at No 4447/2016. That is to say, from the expenditure that has been incurred and which has a closed limit, because they have entered closed limits and had to enter, as they had entered other categories, the closed treatment in the previous years, etc., after deduction of the discounts that all the contracted providers of the EEAS give, because I sell a hundred, I give a 5% discount, I sell a thousand more - it will therefore be deducted - if what is left over the expenditure that is closed, a clawback is applied, based on the percentage of overrun to each provider and the market share. Listen to me. We are very well aware that part of the party's past years has become in and out of this process, because it is not possible - Mr Kegeroglou laughs - in 2011 to have a cost, a payment from the EEAY, let's say about the surfing or about the bone materials, have 13 and 11 million and in 2014 or also in 2015 to have 53 and 48 million. That doesn't explain. I'm using an example to understand some things. That doesn't explain. The patients in Greece could not have multiplyed to such an extent, which would require such spending coverage. This is where two things happen. Whether patients are fake or false, or the values are accurate. That's true, too. All three apply. But be careful now. With the process so far, when the EEAS does not have a contract with the provider, but it compensates the spending patient, what happened? What I said earlier. The patient took these materials from a company or a store of medical devices, paid them or may not pay them and deposited them as a person in the EEA. How will the EEAY control fifty thousand patients, sixty thousand patients, seventy thousand patients? This thing can't be done. It can't be checked. The other guy tells you he gave it to you. How can he control him? What is being concealed behind those who complained to you, to ask the question, is that when they sign a contract, it can also be checked. You understand what I'm saying. Like, like, a clinic that has a contract with EEAS from a long time ago, if I understand something's going on, I have a contract and I go and I'm checking it out. One who gives oxygen or respiratory devices, support devices for sleep apnea, etc., if I have a contract, I'll check it out. If I don't have a contract, I can't answer the patient who says to me 'to pay these, so give me them'. So they cut expenditure up on too many things. Look out, we don't want to close anyone. And they won't close. Be sure. But the EEAY will have contracts with all its providers, will acquire contracts, will be able to control them, and since they have implemented this thing, the procurement and control procedure, to all with whom it has been contracted does not give rise to debt. We do not do what they did 15 years ago with the other funds, such as the IKA, for example, that "you deposit me 100,000 euros as a clinic, get the 90,000 euros and the 10,000 euros we will find them". We never found them. These are the time-lags, which you too paid in 2013 - which you did not pay much - and we now. That thing is. I mean, it's never been checked. Nothing, the papers if they had the seals were looking. Now, however, to each provider, every month, with the mechanism set up by the EEAY, a sample check is held at 4% to 8% of the physical documentation. And if there is a problem there, theft to say so or illegal, false submission, the total amount of the cut, there is the objection procedure, etc. and this is deducted from what has to be paid. So we do not have debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u82	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u83	In my dentistry, I will say the rest, but I think that my colleague must understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u85	Minister, and even if your allegations are correct, the general approach is correct - I will not go into case, because many of them may be, and so I do not have the evidence - you have seen that I mainly focused on one category, on patients with diabetes mellitus, and I said that both medicines and consumables in this category are closed hospitals. They can't prescribe what they want. You know them very well, you are doctors and you know that type I insulin-dependent will write four boxes of fifty pieces and type II two boxes. These will write this month. There's nothing artificial here. That's what I said, can't cause consumption. It's very specific. So you come in this category that we have closed hospitals and tell the importer, who has intervened in the network, 'when you have a market share of 10%, come back to me'. What? What is the overrun that has been done? Because, if it has been exceeded, we must change, reduce the quantities that we prescribe with the month. Result? A small company which is an importer - because it is small companies that we are talking about - is in danger of calling for money today, which has not been collected. In other words, we are asking, today, for a turnover, which, from this turnover, is a very small proportion of its profits, for what EEAY has compensated, not by its own contract or what the private individuals have received, because it may also be private expenditure. Today, we are going to a small company, which happens to have 50,000 euros or 60,000 gains from all this process and you say to him, 'after you have 3%', 'give me 3X3 9' - what I say to the excess - 'i.e. 900,000 euros clawback'. If I correctly make the calculation - I was hoping that you would tell me - we obviously have a blatant injustice, because in the 30 million additional one who has 3% of the market has to give clawback to returning 900,000 euros. That's impossible. How will the company not close, you're telling me you don't want to shut it down? It's gonna close. And what do we say now? You come in mid-2017 and you say with retrospective power and it will come out every six months. It's been all over 2017, there's been no clarification, nothing, nothing, nothing! You have recently changed the limits - well you have done - and for sugary diabetes you have not taken care of, they have left these limits, but no one explains to these people, to small companies, how exactly the calculation is to take place and what their responsibilities are and what their own participation is. What will happen in practice if the calculations are as I said? Small companies will close down, and of course this expenditure will go to large multinational companies, which they can withstand. That is why I am speaking and putting the matter to the vote. I don't know if you're ready to answer this particular thing today, but I'd like you to see it. I really didn't come here to stand up for you. I came to show up an outrageous injustice, which I collected from various operations in my area. And because I also agreed on unfairness, today I bring this to the Greek Parliament, in order to take measures or give appropriate clarification. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Vlao, I'll answer for the diabetes. And I will answer one example again. What you said before is that he writes four boxes. How much is the box? How much does the box charge? Because if he's charging you the 5 euro box, it's another expense. If he's charging you the $20 box, it's another expense. Do you understand what the problem is? Let me tell you at country level. We, in fact, increased by ministerial decision the motifs or movies, which can have the type of diabetes they belong to. Because once it was less. We did this by decision of the EEAS Board of Directors. But be careful. We saw this paradox, taking the figures from previous years. In 2015, we had consumed 90 million euros in diabetes - and in 2016 - and we saw that if we used the prices for these materials we buy in hospitals, this would not be 90 million, but it would be 45 million. I am referring to the same materials. Do you understand what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u88	Put a cap on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u89	That's what we did, Mr. Vlacho. We asked them for prices. We also agreed on the price we would pay. Understand what I'm telling you. And that was the case in the previous years. We just got it. It's what I've said many times: whatever stone you can raise, scorpions and snakes underneath you will find. You don't know where you're being set up. I am simply saying to you that the same things, these two materials, if I go and take them as a private person from a pharmacy or a company selling them, they charge them to me "X" and I submit them to the EEA as "X". If at the same time in the hospitals we bought them "X/2" and that's where they'll probably win.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u90	We don't disagree about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u91	That's what we're going to do. Look, we didn't do the 90 million 45 million. We left them with 60 million, because we wanted to cover them uninsured. And we have given a line to hospitals, to premium uninsured people and to give them the materials they have purchased, just to meet this need. Also, as you have seen, there has been a redistribution in the latest January decision on the limits of clawback, which is trying to reduce the cut, from some of the categories that had not caught it. For example, in intensive care units, the limit we set didn't get. There were no corresponding submissions. By having a separate code on it, there won't be a haircut on those who file hospitals there. Or where there are special interventions - to talk about clinics - that all the private clinical heart surgery, neurosurgery or some specialist interventions are not able to do, they do not deposit such special hospitals or the limit has been reached. So in this department of submission of a clinic that's doing such surgery, there won't be any cutbacks. We are making distribution a lot more fairer with this. The same was done with an election in the rest, with the materials you say. Because the amount was too large. And the amount was high because of the prices we were indebted to. Now we've made a record and we're also asking the companies to bring us the three prices. We are trying to replicate the drug process a little, but in real and correct terms and not in general. There are no information banks everywhere for this. They have done a huge job in order to draw on how much such a machine is sold abroad. This will also be used at the Single Central Procurement Authority, for some things that will be provided by hospitals. Because it is not possible for a material that we know it does 300 euros to be compensated by the EEAY with EUR 1,100. This is not the case and there's a competition between the stores or the companies where the patient gets it from to give him money back. But when it doesn't have a contract with the provider, I can't come and check on you. Now that they have a contract, I can check on you. And if I catch you, I'll cut you off, or I'll cut the contract tomorrow. We are trying to be the level of real expenditure, because on the basis of and prevalence of these diseases throughout the population, on the basis of international epidemiological data, we must have this demand. So a reasonable price that will obviously be profitable, so that the other one can continue, should be at these levels. That is why we have made adjustments, and if necessary they will be made this year. But the process of limiting expenditure, as long as we have been in this process of Memorandum Monitoring, was an element of the agreement. We're gonna streamline some things. And that doesn't mean if we go out again, it's going to be unwitting. We're explaining so we don't get any misunderstandings. It's just through this process we force the providers to make a contract with us. Of course we're not going to close anyone, but we can't pay one thing. And I've said it before. The same last name was taken by the French EEPOY of 5 euros, our hospitals 12 to 15 euros, and the EOPY of 35 euros paid it. The 35 euros gave rise to expenditure. As long as I didn't have a contract with him, I couldn't control him. Now that I have a contract with him, I control him and say to him: 'I am so compensated.'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you're done. Series is the sixteenth-sixteenth-century question under number 1007/6-2-2018. Second-cycle question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health about the problems of personnel shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u93	Minister, Saint Nicholas Hospital has been facing too many problems for years. The lack of staff is the most important and exacerbated by the policy of the memorandum, since it has largely reduced recruitment. On the basis of both Bi Form and the former ESYnet in January 2012, the total was three hundred and seventy-five persons, in January 2015, two hundred and fifty-six and in October 2017, two hundred and fifty-four, reduced by two compared to 2015 and 1/3 compared to 2012. Despite any recruitments and patches, the "haemorrhage" of personnel in all services continues. There are still gaps in major specialities. There are corresponding shortages of nursing, administrative, technical staff, security staff and it has a value to tell us whether new posts are planned for 2018 to be announced to nursing and administrative staff. Adjudicating fixed-term contracts, individual cleanliness, feeding and storage do not solve the problem but worsen it. Let me burn off the unacceptable working conditions in cooking and clothing. They are dramatically subsidized both sections under third-world conditions, not to talk about the intense dysosomia emerging from the drains crossing these two sections and where all hygiene and working conditions are supposed to be observed. In cooking, a little staff is doing all the work. He cooks, wipes, mops, is forced to work for many days without the day off and to accumulate dozens of days due. The situation has deteriorated since the recent retirement of a permanent cook and the injury of another, so that only two cooks have left, one of which is due more than two hundred days. In clothing first, the machines are outdated (washing machines, drying machine - ironing machine) with continuous damage and second, there is a complete sub-stopping. Nine people were employed in the department. In view of the continuing retirement and the lack of new recruitment, there has been a permanent staff member, along with another moving worker and two from a five-hour contractor and a net salary close to EUR 300 per month. To get out this job, staff are being recruited from the cleaning department, and there are gaps also being created. There are also dangerous building infrastructures, shortcomings in medical equipment, conspiracy in waiting areas of the OPs and in short-term hospitals, the dentistry is closed, the psychiatric clinic does not exist, although it is also the staff and residents of Agios Nikolaos, the ophthalmic department only has one doctor, while the needs require the establishment of a clinical with additional doctors intake, but of course the purchase of a visual tomography of strength that is useful because the diagnosis of the bottom of the eye is completed. The artificial kidney unit has not yet started, does not function, has not been transferred to the ready building, while at the same time a company of an artificial kidney is preparing to open in the center of Ierapetra. Technical services are decommissioned by electricians, maintainers and electronic staff. Fire safety certificate doesn't have the hospital. There are delays in the installation of a fire safety and air conditioning system in part of the hospital, as well as in the operation of the fire detectors and fire safety system throughout the hospital, especially in the new wing. There is no such thing as primary health care. You guys who were talking about the high-advertised TOMY doesn't work in Agios Nikolaos. No doctor's gone. It is a long list of problems. We ask you, Minister, what measures do you intend to take to make the necessary recruitments of permanent medical, nursing, administrative staff with full employment and insurance rights so that it can function in accordance with the possibilities and fully meet the needs of the population of the region and Lassithi? This question - request is not for the Monday Presence. Needs now require you to give the solution, and that is the demand for workers. Finally, there must be exceptional and brave hospital funding for studies, construction of projects to improve building infrastructure, restoration of building damage and engineering equipment and, of course, the purchase of the necessary new medical and biomedical equipment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u95	Wait a minute, Mr. President, to find the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u96	You've been talking around for so long and you haven't taken care of your papers!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u97	It's just a lot! If anyone listened to us, Mr. Colleague, he would think that a nuclear bomb fell in the Bay of Mirabel and did not stay from St. Nicholas' Hospital. Is that right? Let's get a little serious and talk numbers. Such a black disaster we've done? The evidence tells me more. First, to start with funding, in 2015, the hospital had predicted the previous ones to get 2,959,000 euros. He finally took $3.500,000 to be supported by the General Accounting Office. We're talking numbers here. In 2015, therefore, it received 3,429,000 funding from the General Accounting Office of the State and a cocoon counted another, nothing else. In 2016, it took 3.100,000 from the General Accounting Office and 2.787,000 from EEAY. In 2017, it took 3,109,000 again and 5,757,000 from EOPY and at the moment or more correctly on 31-12-2017, the hospital owed a total of 2,394,000 and had in the funds of 4.238,000. So he had 2 million euros surplus, what he doesn't have money and can't work, what's the black disaster! So what you're saying is not true. The second issue concerns recruitment. Doctors have been given twenty-five authorisations of permanent doctors at all the hospitals of Agios Nikolaos, Ierapetras, Sitias etc. In 2016, nine other posts were assigned in 2017, and in Agios Nikolaos in 2016 sixteen permanent staff were taken from the 4K and 5K notices, two permanent ESS doctors, three ASs and seven ASs. In 2017, thirteen permanent doctors, six remaining staff, twenty-fifths of a fixed-term private law - clean-up workshops - eighteen of OAED, another subsidiary person and 7K and 5K of 2017, are waiting, because the process has finally been completed, for sixteen more people to be recruited in the next sixteen years. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] What we say, for a hospital in Saint Nicholas' capacity, is not small reinforcement. That people are retiring are a fact. It is also obvious that we have not met all the needs. But from there on, you don't call that non-support and dismantling of the hospital. We have done the same thing we have done throughout the country, and we have shared it in a way that we can ensure conditions of adequacy. From there on for a series of other projects you spoke of, I challenge you to take the document, check it out and see if they were actually done here, which were financed by the Ministry through the budget or the reserve. It is a very large list of equipment and projects, which have taken place in the past two years. Because as you say, you bring destruction! I'll take a lot of time to read these, 'cause it's a lot. These are nine actions from August 2016 to December 2017, related to repairs and hotel upgrades, twenty-four actions related to equipment and other forty actions that are in a call process, etc. Yes, there's a delay in the theme of the artificial kidney unit. We've pressed the administration too. It's this whole process of licensing we talked about before. The money has been there for too long. It is the process of authorizing authorisations in order to do so. But it's gonna happen! Because we also financed the oxygen and all that is going to be proclaimed now. In other words, what we do all over Crete is do there. There is no discriminatory treatment against Saint Nicholas Hospital, as one would understand, by listening in advance. We think the hospital has been reinforced. Like all the hospitals in the country, it needs further support, but I think it is decently performing its role and the needs it wants to meet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you'll tell the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. With the completion of other recruitments, which are in the process, I think it will improve its operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u101	Minister, I have tabled a very long list of problems that Saint Nicholas Hospital faces on the basis of workers' requests and also knowing the file of the administration of the Saint Nicholas Hospital. There was no bomb in the Bay of Mirabelos, but the anti-population policy that you, as a follow-up to the previous ones, obviously constitutes a bomb on the foundations of the public health system and apparently threatens the workers in public hospitals and leads to the complete dismantling and delivery of public health to business. The budgets, you know, do not say much on their own. Because I will remind you that the subsidiary is now being paid by the hospitals. Moreover, the needs are so increased in relation to the past, that any comparison of a budget now with the budgets in the past may involve too many triples and tactileisms, which do not render reality. This is not because the previous ones did not level them, but the figures themselves show that this situation is continuing and I have brought you very specific examples. Is that right? I will go into more specific issues: From 1-1-2016, eleven permanent doctors have left because of retirement, resignation, or transfers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u102	It's not eleven, it's five.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u103	Two months ago, three directors of radiological, general surgical, obstetrical and gynecology were retired, and while this ministry is aware of it, it has declared no position. There is a problem with radiology, where Genarus was originally left seven empty on-calls. This month, in March, there are seven days in the on-call program without an on-call radiologist. This means that those days of on-call cannot become either CTs or ultrasounds. What about the incidents where they're going? Heraklion. What are you doing? You moved a skilled radiologist from Heraklion to Agios Nikolaos and empty newspapers are covered with active on-calls from the hospital's specialist and ready-to-day radiologist, who makes much more on-calls than planned. It's a temporary solution. Yes, but the authorisations for the vacancies have not yet been made by the Ministry of Health. Secondly, from the successors of the AACC in 1998, fifteen administrative permanent staff came in, as expected in the initial distribution of successful officials. They showed up and took over the 11ths. Of the eleven, one, nine left by moving to other hospitals and other institutions, while transferring their organic positions. The question is whether there will be new organic positions with these conditions in the hospital. Thirdly, while recruited in February 2017 oncologist - pathologist chemotherapies are not done and cancer patients continue to go to Heraklion, and that is why the diagnostic procedure for the provision of a device on the dissolution of cytostatic drugs has not been advanced. Fourthly, from 28-8-2017, gastroenterologist has been hired, but gastrophies and collops are not done because there is no cologne and gastroscope and patients go back to Heraklion. Fifth, 1-1-2017 doesn't work in dentistry. The dental chair is broken and any repair is delayed. Six, with regard to surgery, a surgical room now works instead of two three days of the week and two surgical rooms in the two days of the week. The result is endless waiting lists for regular surgery that arrives until March, April and goes by saying. So the solutions you give perpetuate the problem. Pretextful understanding of the right - to say this - to stable work and everything is stumbling up in your Memorandum promises, in the economic crisis that you serve in the best possible way. So leave this permanent account of the burnt earth, “we have received from the former burnt earth.” And the previous ones received burnt land, and each time the next one catchs the spoon, he invokes the same record of the burnt earth. Uh, yeah, but you didn't come to the government's power to say about the burnt land of the former, but to solve matters. You mustn't provoke the JRC. And you're provoking it unnecessarily and you're not honoring it, because you know very well that the KIC forces - and that will continue to do it always - regardless of who is in government power - whether the New Democracy or the PASOK or you - will give the battle so that the worker, the retired person, has this public, free, upgraded health on the basis of the modernities of science, but also on the basis of the real needs he has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers attending from the 14th General School of Larissa. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u105	Mr Synthraki, since you have told me and a provocative, to complete the provocative process: you, with this kind of criticism, will never receive anything, as it is! I did not want to go into detail on some things, but since you caused me, I have to do it. You know, it's very easy to find a hospital, turn all the sections up to the bottom and say "Here's a stone gone, there's a window missing, there's a door's gone" and all that I say in this House as if it's panic and mistle and black spit. Listen: The procurement and installation of a new fire safety system cost EUR 60.678 completed. The relocation of emergency medical services in an unsettled space on the ground floor of the old wing and improvement of the spaces has been completed. The construction of a special room of detainees costing 5 thousand euros has been completed. Creative improvements, repairs, oil chromatography, renovations in regular hospitals, laboratories, clinics, chambers and bathrooms of patients, waiting areas, auxiliary facilities, main entrances, lifts, doors are made and programmed new ones. Transfer file to unsavoury space. Construction of a whole closed unscrupulous wing of the fourth floor of the old building, by a private sponsorship, for the conversion of the cardiovascular section. Energy upgrading and legalisation of buildings. The tender has been completed and the replacement of fan code air-conditioning pipes costs EUR 73 000. The conversion of the artificial kidney unit of EUR 137 000, as concluded in the process, was auctioned in February. For the development of a psychiatric clinic that has been funded with 290 thousand euros, the study is now being conducted, the money is committed. The construction of a oxygen plant is in a tendering process along with all the hospitals in Crete that it has entered. I mean PAGNI, Venizelos, Agios Nikolaos and Chania. In your position you stressed that we were saying we received burnt land. Yes, burnt land we've received and made it. When you had to buy the following, burnt land, you get a comparison on that basis. I will quickly read what has been purchased from August 2016 until December 2017. What are these? Surgery machine washing machine, liquid sterilisation furnace, digitalization system, full set of color digital ultrasound, hysteroscopic pump, incubator culture furnace, plasma aerosol freezer, aerosols with variable pressure system, four or five of what I see, multi-canner electrocardiographs, laparoscopic handles, acidometers, laparoscopic styles, computer equipment, imaging system (DICOM SERVER), central electronic monitoring system for ITH monitors. Wireless network for the patients of the Artificial Nebru Unit. Stations, beds, exam beds, chairs, buckets, presses, air conditioners. The laparoscopic tower was announced and the offer was sealed on February 22nd. The endoscopic tower was received a private sponsorship and will be installed within the month. We have financed the dialysis machines with EUR 90 000, and a regular tender is expected. They're too late here, too. Other offers were announced and sealed on February 14, 2018: automatic endoscopic washing machine, neon recovery bank, defibrillator, chemo chairs, dialysis chairs, perpendicular flow chamber. All this has been blocked and implemented. When have these happened before? When they're away from a hospital, what we're saying now and we're getting them, you tell me "that's what that chair is missing, that one, the other". I've got everything here. I deposit them for the Minutes and you can take them and go see if they've been or not. I think I have already answered both the staff and the funding. It is not a Memorandum of Understanding when a hospital is located with 2 million cash surplus. No ideological, Marxist analysis says that. When a hospital who was inside dipp three years ago, instead, owed his head's hair and right now, after having paid back what he bought in the past, what he consumed in 2017, he also had 2 million, it's not a memorial hanging. It is a political choice for our own government to support public hospitals. That we haven't done everything, we know. We'll be here a while and we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that, under the Rules of Procedure, the seven questions which have been answered so far should have lasted seventy-seven minutes. But they have lasted a hundred fifty minutes, or two and a half hours. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is unbelievable! I also have the honour to announce to the House that the fourth question under number 1148/26-2-2018, first-round question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Approval of expenditure of EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible and the Deputy Minister abroad. The second question, under number 1161/27-2-2018, of the second question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister and the Deputy Minister responsible abroad. The fourteenth under number 998/6-2-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Fotidis of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of General Government expenditure", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister and Deputy Minister abroad. The seventeenth under number 948/30-1-2018, a topical question by MP Phthiotis, New Democracy, Christos Staikos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to individuals’, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible and the Deputy Minister abroad. The sixth under number 1157/27-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former Karatsiou camp", will not be discussed due to the fact that Mr. Kammenos is on a government mission abroad. Now we will discuss the third with number 1152/26-2-2018 the first question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Without provision for the protection of first residence, the circular for electronic auctions from 1-5-2018'. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor to present the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Black eyes we've seen you, Minister. We are used to Mr Tsakalotos coming in once a year, taking us back with continuous postponements. In any case, I am glad that you are here and we expect you to give us an answer on the substance. Minister, with your last Memorandum of Understanding, Law 4512/2018, you have now extended the electronic auctions to the Public Financial Services, to DUs. Now there is no protection procedure for anyone. On the basis of the framework you set up, the clerk will go and say: "Sir, your house has been sold through the electronic auction process". While we know what your intentions are and what problems will be encountered by every poor man owed to the public, we have submitted you from early December a proposal for a law on the protection of first residence, which we do not know where you have referred. You haven't brought her to the House. It is your formal duty, beyond the essential, to discuss it. In any case, you need to take measures to protect the first home, now that electronic auctions start from 1 May, as the law says and the DUs say. I would like to remind you, Minister, that we bad guys, who Mr. Tsipras told us that we would give 'every house in the hands of a banker', had the first provision to introduce Law 3869/2010, but who requires a judicial procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because we knew that every poor and helpless man is not easy to appeal to the courts, the minister responsible at the time had issued a circular on 12-5-2010, POL 1055, which said that the curator would not carry out the auction procedure if the auctioned is first home. So we bad guys have had this care. In fact, a friendly form of yours came out before time and made it headlines: 'Here', he says, 'how is the first residence protected'? He was referring to our Circle. You then came to take off the application circular of Law 4512 and you don't even have the reference to Poll 1055, which makes the manager not to proceed to an auction procedure for the first place. That is the subject of my timely question and I am waiting for myself and the thousands of others who owe the public - since you have not made any progress in the hundred doses that we have told you or in other favourable regulations - an answer that we believe is essential. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The provision of our Ministry for Electronic Auctions is now explicitly foreseen for the administrative execution of auctions exclusively through electronic systems. These amendments form part of the wider context of harmonisation of law, administrative and enforcement. The same arrangement provided that auctions would only be made on 1 May 2018 in an electronic manner, irrespective of the time when the seizure or the time when the auction programme was issued. This brought the CEDEFOP into line with the Code of Civil Procedure with regard to procedures and in particular with regard to how the auctions are to be conducted, i.e. electronically. Transparency was therefore strengthened. There is now averting phenomena of unfair intervention and integrated auctions, and a better defence of the country's financial interests has been ensured. I would like here to stress the reference you made in POL 1055/2010 that it was explicitly foreseen that if there is a great deal of reason, for example in the case of an immovable debtor, which is proven to be the main and unique residence and which meets the basic needs of the citizen, the time limits for issuing property auctions are not respected, following a reasoned report by the Head of the competent IGC. This clearly remains in place, regardless of the way in which the auction is conducted, whether it is natural or electronic. It was explicitly laid down in the same provision that the rules of administrative execution apply as set out in paragraph 8 of Article 959 of the Code of Civil Procedure with regard to the timing of electronic auctions, while provision was made for provision in the event that for any reason a notary of the place of execution cannot be designated as a marker to the model of the new provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. It has also been clarified, in order to remove any doubt expressly, now in the law, that in addition to mobile and in the case of auctioning real estate, the preparation of an auction schedule may be entrusted by the head of the acceding agency to a judge and the time of notification of the auction programme has increased in forty days prior to the auctioning of twenty days before. Of course, anachronistic formalities for publicity such as masonry, newspaper publication, have been abolished and we now have the process of publishing the summaries of auction programs. I have to stress once again that there are no mass auctions of residential dwellings from the public. In 2017 eight auctions were held throughout the territory, four in the Thessaloniki Region and four in the Piraeus Region. The regulation you are referring to is of a legislative nature. In more detail, the regulation of our Ministry has two main objectives: firstly, the harmonisation of the CEDEFOP with the Code of Civil Procedure, in order to ensure that the administrative and enforcement regime is one, clearly defined and without'sticks' that create insecurity and anxiety among citizens; secondly, the adoption of the process of electronic auctions and the public in order to avoid established auctions and to safeguard the interests of citizens and the country. Mr President, I reserve the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kutsuko, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u111	That is exactly what I said, Minister, that you harmonized the process of electronic auctions for both, from now on. As you said, we have not had massive auctions in 2017, but since 1 May - I do not know what you have to deal with on this day that symbolizes the struggles of the working class, you were in Hilton on 1 May 2017, instead of protesting, to close the agreement of the supplementary memorandum - the auctions from the IGC will be applied and there is no protection of the first residence with this harmonisation. I fear that what we are watching now is done with electronic auctions will be done tomorrow. You may have told us, Minister, that there is POL 1055, to which I have referred, which clearly protects the responsible party against breach of duty and says that it must consider whether it is a first residence. You have now told us that it is oral. I read the circular POL 1017/1 February 2018, which you adopted in application of the law on electronic auctions, i.e. Law No 4512/2018, and in particular Article 405(1) thereof. He has no mention. Do you want us to confront her? We'll have our time. If, then, there was welfare, you would write it, because you know that the younger law and the younger circular abolishes the previous one. So, if you want to get serious and give a message, you will commit here today that it will circulate an additional circular, which, based on how the first home is determined, will be excluded from electronic auctions. If you don't do that, it goes on to say that you're laughing, once again, the world. You are mocking him, Minister, because if you wanted to resolve the protection issue, you would have brought us here to discuss the proposal for a law of the Democratic Alliance. It's been three months. The proposal we make is not a popular proposal, like what you said 'no house in the hands of a banker' and now, every house can go into the hands of a banker. It is a proposal that has a limit of EUR 200,000 objective value and an income limit, as well as a limit of deposits, so that it does not protect each backbone. Therefore, you have another concept than that which we have for the protection of first residence. You think that these harmonisations you are now saying and they are your Memorandum promises will pass 'poor drinks'. But very soon the world will understand exactly what you've done to him. Because, indeed, you think that you are living in status, the sooner you understand it to adapt the legislation, the better. If I may, Mr President, I would like to close with this. As I monitor the finances, this act that you have done today, to appoint the Secretary-General of your Ministry head of the independent Budget Office of this House, does it not mean that you have exceeded every limit and you have a perception, which says 'we are power and do what we want'? Madam Minister, you must leave this behind if you want at least tomorrow to have a minimum credibility vis-à-vis all those who the Head of the IGC now, without any cover, will make them in the process of electronic auctioning. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u113	First of all, for the Secretary-General you mentioned, I would say that the President of Parliament has tabled the necessary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u114	He's a government official.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u115	We all have a previous service. It doesn't matter. He filed the necessary supporting documents. He's a remarkable scientist. After all, he has proved it over the past period in the administration of the General Accounting Office of the State, so we cannot give him any questions. With regard to the timely question you have asked, the aim of the government and of the Ministry is to increase transparency and to prevent unfair intervention and auctions, as well as to ensure that the country's financial interests are defended. As far as 1 May is concerned, yes, electronic auctions will be launched and implemented, Mr. Koutsouko, but the auctions will be applied for strategic malpractices. In essence, the conditions for opening the auction procedure are not in any way affected by this arrangement. As mentioned above, eight auctions were held in 2017, four in the region of Thessaloniki, four in the region of Piraeus. Under no circumstances is the non-protection of the main and sole residence. What is clear is that we are depleting all the other measures before we arrive at them, and clearly, the public will only initiate an auction procedure if it considers that this procedure serves its interests and meets its requirements in this way, as has always been done and will continue to be done from now on. At a critical time for the fiscal and social interests of the country, we have come, with this law alone, to harmonise two similar procedures, in fact by turning them into electronics, with all the benefits that this entails for their integrity and purity. With regard to MOL 1017/2018 - which you mentioned in your current question - a circular of the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, I should mention that this new circular is simply given instructions for the uniform application of the provisions on electronic auctions and no other amendment is made to the existing auction regulatory framework. POL 1055/2010 therefore remains in force, irrespective of how the auction is to be conducted. Furthermore, the third subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 41 of the CRP, which provides for the above-mentioned exemption from the time limits for the issue of an auction programme, is not amended. Finally, I would like to stress one more point. The CEDEFOP has been part of our legal order since 1974, because none of the previous governments have been in the process of modifying it, protecting the first residence of the debtor, because none of the post-government government of the “golden” times considered it appropriate to protect the interests of the citizens of this country from the bad public. We respond to all these projects. Eleven auctions in 2016, eight auctions in 2017 for grandees and on a regular basis to exhaust all other measures before reaching them. I repeat that none of this will change with the new process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. Here is the third question by number 1162/27-2-2018 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Support of affected producers in Vianno, Ierapetra and Sitia, etc.’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Minister, you are aware of the bad weather of the 25th and 26th of January, which affected the southern regions of Eastern Crete, namely the Municipality of Vianno, the Municipality of Ierapetra and part of the Municipality of Sitia. Production units, businesses, greenhouses, plants and, of course, there have been losses, both in plant production and in vegetable capital. What is related to your responsibilities and which mayors and producers are asking for, as their support measures, concern first of all the exceptional financial support to farmers - producers, as has been given to similar cases of professionals and businesses affected by weather phenomena, on the basis of the amendment of the Ministry of Finance, which was adopted in November 2017. The question is whether you intend to incorporate into this process and rural businesses, greenhouses, in other words greenhouses and other plants affected. The second, which concerns your responsibilities, is whether you intend to make a 'freedom' of tax obligations and of course, insurance - incorporation into the Ministry of Labour - and to allow favourable arrangements - public and ECA debts, as has been done in such cases. We expect clear answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u119	I'm going to need some more time, because I have to give the answers that we have been sent by the relevant ministries. The basic principle of our Government is proof of direct support for the citizens, who are affected by natural disasters. In fact, I am pleased with the timely question you are addressing me. I reply to your first question: Extraordinary financial support for farmers affected by the weather effects for the storm on 25-26 January 2018 mainly in vegetable crops, banana crops, as well as tree crops in the wider region of the regional unit of Heraklion and Lassithi and mainly in the municipalities of Vianno, Phaistou, Ierapetra and Sitia: The necessary labels have been made by ELGA's geotechnics. There were announcements and about a thousand statements submitted. As you can see, the work of personalized assessments is under way. Conclusions will then be communicated, followed by the payment of the compensation to beneficiaries, insurers, who will be informed. Please note that a number of procedures are followed for the payment of allowances by the ELGA, which are laid down in the existing legislation. It is therefore clear that each process needs the appropriate time. The liquidation period is six to seven months and has been very short compared with the previous years. We also had damage from theory in fixed capital, mainly greenhouses. I should like to point out here that three hundred initial damage claims have been made, involving about three hundred acres. The work of the records on these damages is also ongoing and provided the conditions in force under the State Aid Regulation and the Community guidelines on State aid are included in a programme for the granting of State financial aid submitted for approval in the European Union. I will submit the corresponding ELGA document. I would also like to inform you that according to relevant response documents from the Ministry of the Interior, it is foreseen that in exceptional cases, as well as in emergency and emergency situations, economicly impossible residents and multiple types of living or care, mainly medical and hospital care, may be granted by decision of the municipal and Community council. Money may also be provided. By decision of the City Council, taken by an absolute majority of the number of members, it is also possible to reduce municipal taxes or charges or to exempt them from vulnerable population groups. Finally, financial obligations to the municipalities, which are borne by late payment increases, may again, by reasoned decision of the City Council, be exempt from the above increases, provided that the late payment is due, inter alia, to an economic weakness arising from events of force majeure. Clearly, therefore, with the existing institutional framework, the municipalities are able, in principle, to take the necessary administrative steps towards the immediate relief of the municipalities, both of the households and of the businesses affected by severe climatic phenomena, as is the case here. Also, the Department of Economic and Development Policy informed us that they were attributed to the Municipality of Viannos to prevent and tackle damage and disasters from natural disasters, €100,000, as well as to the central independent resources of the municipalities for the implementation of projects and investment activities: €399.810 to the Municipality of Ierapetra, €35.330 to the Municipality of Sitia and €135.210 to the Municipality of Viannos of Heraklion. In addition, in the context of relief and support for affected enterprises, employers or insured persons who have a professional establishment or activity in areas affected by natural disasters or other natural disasters and have proved to be damaged, there are facilities for the payment of insurance contributions, such as capitalisation of delays, until the end of the previous natural disaster, insurance contributions, suspension of payment of current insurance contributions for six months, starting from the first month of the month in which the natural disaster occurred. These contributions shall be repaid in twelve to twenty-four equal monthly instalments, starting from the first of the following month, of the one during which the six-month suspension ended. I shall submit all the documents and documents of the General Secretariat of Social Security for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I reserve to answer your second question, in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, as we have heard, you have told us about all the other ministries except yours. We've got answers from the other ministries. We have brought Mr Apostle here and talked to us about the ELGA process. But he didn't tell us if he would reinforce the tiles, which assess the damage, so that personalization could be quickly made. He did not tell us when the PCA programme was going to be submitted and did not give us any clear answers. When we asked him about the extraordinary financial aid, about the issue that he has to deal with with professional farmers and their business, which is the greenhouse and whether measures will be applied, as implemented in accordance with the amendment you tabled and voted on by Parliament on 20 November 2017, he said: "But the Ministry of Finance is responsible." So here we did not ask you to tell us what the other ministries say, but to tell us what you say. Of the four hundred statements, about the roughly fifty were in Ierapetra and relate to glasshouses destroyed, businesses destroyed. Three hundred and eighty-five statements to the Municipality of Vianno or vice versa, of which over 80% concern damaged businesses. Again, the farmer's business, outside the gardening season, is the greenhouse. This is his business, which has been destroyed. Will you also apply the law to these cases, as applied to others? Will they receive the exceptional financial assistance of EUR 8 000 so that the greenhouses can be rebuilt, of course with the help of the other programmes? Of course, the disaster is huge. It has nothing to do with the 8,000 euros. A greenhouse of five acres - depending on the equipment it has - costs 100,000 euros and over. Here you will give them financial support to put the cuts needed to empty the space from the useless materials. We're not talking about anything more. The first issue, then, is that and it is specific. Are you going to consider this request and provide this exceptional financial assistance? The second thing also concerns your responsibilities in relation to the debts in the DUs, is whether the arrangement will be inappropriate and whether the debts are frozen and how long. It's specific things. On the issues of the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Rural Development, we'll invite them to tell us firsthand so that you don't make the broken phone. For your own sake, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u122	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u123	The Ministry of Finance is always aware and settles these issues directly and effectively, as in all cases, that we faced both in 2017 and 2016. On the basis of the existing institutional framework in the case of earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters, which cause extensive catastrophes in areas of the Greek territory, the Minister of Finance shall adopt relevant decisions suspending the recovery of late payments to the State for up to six months and regulating the payment of these debts up to twenty-four monthly instalments. The Minister for Finance is also authorised to extend the deadlines for payment of the certified debts to the State in exceptional cases. In the context of the above, a decision was already adopted on 20-2-2018, which provides for an extension and suspension of the payment of certified debts in order to address the exceptional needs arising from the severe weather phenomena in the areas of the Municipality of Vianno. Therefore, the deadlines for payment of the certified, regulated and dues are extended and suspended, respectively, to the local communities of the Municipality of Vianno. Because in your question you refer to the Municipality of Ierapetra and Sitia, I would like to inform you that the relevant request of the Municipality of Ierapetra was submitted to our office on 27-2-2018. Clearly, we have promoted this request to the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, in order to provide for an extension and suspension of payment of the certified and due debts and the Municipality of Ierapetra. Today, the draft Ministerial Decision, which has been returned to the services and will be published in the FEK in the next few months, has been signed. As far as the Municipality of Sitias is concerned, so far we have not received a request. According to the existing institutional framework, the Ministry of Finance is also responsible for the compensation of undertakings with 30% of the damage to buildings, machinery, raw materials, and what is involved in natural disasters, by adopting a Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Finance, Economy and Infrastructure and Transport. What are the conditions for the adoption of this Decision? The adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision demarcating the affected areas and providing housing assistance, i.e. free state aid, interest-free loans for the repair or reconstruction of buildings and buildings which have been damaged by natural disasters. This FCH is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport's Rehabilitation of Natural Disasters. Secondly, the recording of the losses of the undertakings concerned by the relevant region. Finally, we know that our Ministry is monitoring the effectiveness of the tax policy being pursued, assessing the impact of the tax measures taken, and considering clear requests made by citizens and institutions and making the necessary legislative arrangements with regard to socially just and sustainable development, taking into account the current budgetary circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fourth question under number 1166/27-2-2018, dated the second question from the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of Children at the General Hospital - Ikaria Health Center". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. The question, as you say, Mr President, concerns the lack of children on the remote island of Ikaria. On this island he serves a pediatrician who recently, because of his education leave, absent for a certain period of time. In particular - I am opening a parenthesis - the question was made at the time when the pediatrician was gone with her education leave. This is why, if necessary, a reference made to total deficiencies is made at that time. This, so there's no misunderstanding. It was about the period when the pediatrician was really missing for her education leave, and in this direction we tabled the timely question. And we also want the position of the Ministry. It therefore serves a pediatrician who is called upon to meet the needs of children and infants of Ikaria and of the Forks. This time she was away forty days with educational leave and the island stayed uncovered by a pediatrician. Similarly, in previous periods for corresponding licenses or sick leave, but also in future, either a normal leave that is entitled to work and a pediatrician, the same problem will be called upon to deal with the parents and children of the island. On this basis, therefore, the questions that we ask the Minister are that they must be made immediately, that they should be recruited in a number of children so that the needs of children are met, of course, with a permanent full-time work relationship in public services. Therefore, in order to serve the health units and also to meet the health needs of children 24 hours a day, while at the same time serving at the same time as all necessary health and ancillary personnel, the health centres of the island, to provide full and free public services of primary health care and similar prevention throughout the entire population of the island. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u127	Dear colleague, the image of the Hospital of Ikaria obviously corresponds to the image of a small hospital of a few beds, forty beds, which in its body has a deficient staffing. That's clear. The current hospital body provides for an organic position of a pediatrician, which has been covered since last year with a permanently qualified pediatrician. There has been this problem you are saying. A void was actually created. Obviously we owe it as a health system, in consultation with neighbouring hospitals and with the supervision of the Health Region, not to create such gaps and to cover them in good time. The problem, in my view, can be solved on a permanent basis by means of the announcement of an organic position of a pediatrician in the Centre for Health and with the effort we are going to make in the context of the amendment of the agencies of all the hospitals in the country. Our design for the first few months of 2018 is to pass a new framework, i.e. to legislate a new framework, for the organisations of all hospitals and then, on this basis, to update the hospital agencies and provide a provision in such subordinated hospitals to add organic positions, especially at peaks. I think pediatrics is one of those specialties. However, I must say that pediatrics is indeed a speciality that today we have a difficulty in meeting needs, especially in difficult islands and barren areas. We have declared a position of an ancillary pediatrician without unfortunately responding. We have announced a place within the local health unit, the new organisational model in primary care. There was also a call for interest there for a pediatrician, too, without response. I think it is a wider matter of how, with budgetary constraints, we can give greater incentives at this time in areas where there is really an objective difficulty in responding to doctors, particularly in specific specialities, which, in my view, are relatively easy to open in a private medical establishment and such a speciality is pediatric. The point is, however, that the hospital is today - and I think this is recognised by local society - in a better phase than in terms of staffing with medical staff. They informed me that today they are serving twenty-six doctors, twenty-one permanent and five subsidiary, on a total of thirty organic posts. I think it's a decent staffing rate. We are currently waiting in the next period in April for a second anesthesiologist to be appointed. There was a deficit in time in this very critical specialty. Now we have one permanent one and another one will be added. We will make a real effort in the next few months to reopen the positions for the Local Health Unit, in other words, the structure of primary school, and to declare this position for the Evdilou Health Centre and to provide for an additional place in the hospital body in the context of the revision of the Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u129	Minister, there is no doubt that one pediatrician - you admit it, too, I think everyone can accept and admit that - is not enough to meet the needs of this region, this island. And now look, it's the Forks. The pediatrician itself is also invited to cover the Forens, health centers, etc. Here it really wants intervention from the government, making use of all the possibilities and means available to appoint a pediatrician. Is that a health center? Of course health centers also want staffing, they suffer. See now, on the occasion and at the same time as the island was completely uncovered by a pediatrician, parents - not only now, but also in the previous period - with peak demands, mobilizing, claiming, showed an improvement in service conditions in terms of public health benefits: hospitals, health centres, regional medical facilities. There are deficiencies in both agricultural doctors and, of course, at times, they are acute or not in other specialties. Of course, not a general doctor - you understand, doctor, you are, I am, you do not need a doctor at the bottom - someone who is a doctor - to undertake to carry out the work of a pediatrician not only in the face of the diagnosis and healing of a disease, but much more in the direction of prevention, which is a key area in primary school, but also in the field of health as a whole. In view of the fact that the weather conditions of the island during the winter months, as in many other islands in our country, are such that they do not allow for either the sea transport or the transport by plane, etc., you can understand that the situation is becoming even more difficult and, if you like, more explosive, perhaps during periods of absence of a pediatrician who exists is even dangerous. So we think that the government should be moving immediately. You said some initiatives to be taken by the Ministry, by extension, but I think that these should be speeded up, because the same problem will be faced with the same region and the pediatrician. I only focus it on the pediatricians. The question, of course, did not concern, as you mentioned, improvements to the hospital, possibly to the other units. There are huge problems there, you know. As far as the children are concerned, however, we think and appreciate - and this is where the question has been put - how the process of recruitment for children is to be launched in the fastest way possible. Otherwise we will be here and the same problems will be recycled and the inhabitants will of course feel isolated, as they feel on many islands and not only, but now we are talking about the islands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u131	I think that the sensitivity and insecurity, obviously, of the permanent residents of the area for child care on the island is perfectly understandable. Again, what we can do and is possible is to keep an ancillary, contracted child, because today there is no organic position in the hospital, to change the organization within the year, to provide for an additional position which we can also call on the Centre for Health to be set up from a package of some four hundred fifty permanent doctors from the ESS to the next month, I hope that we will have declared for all the health centres in the country. That is what I think is possible and immediately implemented. The hospital has really been an attempt to support this period and with equipment and human resources. The balance in 2017 of the staff, with the exception of retirement leave, was sixteen. I told you that staffing on the basis of the few organic positions is, in my view, satisfactory at the moment and two important interventions have been launched. One is the purchase of a modern CT scanner from the Ministry's Public Investment Program worth 250,000 euros and also the organization of an Artificial Nefros Unit. It was a timeless request from the local residents, so that the kidney patients who need dialysis need not have to go to other places and usually to Piraeus, Athens, to have the necessary care. This has also been launched again by the Ministry's Public Investment Program. I think, therefore, that the effort we are going to make is in the coming period with a sharper need for support from a pediatrician on a permanent basis to give the local society a signal of greater and safer coverage of the units in the region. It is very encouraging that regional doctors are all covered in this period either by general doctors or by rural doctors who perform an outdoor service or by armed doctors. We had made a deal with the Armed Forces and we have covered regional medical facilities, such as Thymena and Chrysomilia, which were for years uncovered and are now covered. So I think that the effort is - and this seems to have been - a more complete coverage, obviously in the context of the deficiencies that always exist in such island regions and regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u132	Next to the seventh under number 1165/27-2-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, concerning measures to ensure the proper functioning of the Centre for the Health of Mytilini. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation with regard to health services in Mytilini, and not only does it remind us of the times of the 1950s. In Mytilini, when they existed in IKA and its health services, even when they closed down, there were forty - eight doctors of various specialties microbiological, radiological laboratories and yet its function was problematic for patients. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Now, the state of health center is not just tragic but tertiary, since at the moment a total of three clinical doctors, a general medical attendant, a gynecologist and a pneumonologist, his manager and thirty-one assistant staff are at the moment. Also, they have moved and work in breakfast one day a week, six general doctors and a pathologist from the island's regional doctors. The above doctors participate in the TLP on-call program together with the others on-calls. Thus, the health center, despite its great shortages in medical staff, operates until now on a 24 - hour basis only thanks to the superhuman efforts of medical and nursing personnel. On the newspapers a doctor in active and one mixed by nine o'clock at night, the needs of the whole 24/7 are met. Regular appointments for insured and retired persons to visit a medical doctor at the health center or write medications have now gone up to about two months. Of course, the situation at the General Hospital of Mytilini, as far as waiting time is concerned, is even worse. I provide you with a photocopy of an insured date that was closed by the General Hospital of Mytilini, dated 21 February 2018, for 28 June 2018, i.e. after a hundred and twenty-eight days or more than four months, in insured with serious illnesses, certified medical history, severe surgery in the brain, cardiological problems and sugarpapiper, which requires daily insulin three times a day. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Tassos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where is the state of health, care to be an individual case and to market logic "the money is cured, the man who has not died"? The workers at the health center, but mainly the people of Mytilini, are asking for a clear answer, given that the thirteen contracted with the EEA doctors for 2018 will not exist, but also because there will be no application in the SMUs and therefore the health centre is now the only primary care structure in Mytilini, a city of thirty thousand plus seven - eight thousand refugees and migrants - because that is where their number has stabilised - whether the health centre will continue to function properly throughout the 24-hour period, three hundred and sixty-five days a year. Today, of course, he does so thanks to the superhuman efforts of the workers, those who have left, the manager, the doctors, the nurses and the administrative staff, and seconded by doctors from the health centers or from the Mytilini Hospital, but even so he dismantles the General Hospital of Mytilini. I remind you that during your visit last summer at the health center you said that you were impressed by his organization. Of course, they ask for the appropriate permanent staff and means for the public health system to offer free and in line with the current possibilities of medical science in primary health care, to all residents and visitors, without the workers being exterminated and misconstructed to a large extent by the General Hospital of Mitilini.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u135	My dear colleague, the picture you describe is not accurate, and I say it in full knowledge of the conditions, because I have visited the particular health centre in the old unit of the PEDY and the Mytilini Hospital and the rural-type health centre on the island. There has been a very significant attempt to upgrade all the structures in the region, and I will refer very much to this. For this particular health centre, I have to say that he had one particular thing. It was the only structure of the former IKA - EEAY and former PEDY in an urban centre that had been set up in 24-hour service, precisely to meet the increased needs due to the refugee. This picture has been slightly differentiated today because care at hospitality, that is, both in Moria and in the Cara Tepe camp, has been better organized. In other words, there is permanent health staff through the CEDEFOP's "Philos" programme, financed from European resources. Therefore, there is a first management of personalities and there has been a reduction in the flow and need for structures in the city, either at the health centre or at the hospital. In any case, we consider that it is indeed a very important structure for the urban fabric of Mytilini, which we obviously have no intention of degrading or deceiving. This also bears witness to the fact that we have already launched an additional recruitment of an ancillary orthopaedic, which takes place in the next few days. I must say that at the moment they are serving as a whole, apart from the permanent doctors, with movements made by the rest of the island's primary care structures, fifteen doctors. They serve two doctors of general medicine, a doctor of microbiologists, a doctor of cellologists, a nurse, a dentist, a pathologist, a pneumonologist, four general medicine from health centers and three adjuncts, a radiologist, a general doctor and a biopathologist. I think, therefore, that together with the other staff, which you have rightly said, they are thirty-one, twenty-seven are permanent and subsidiary and four are from the OAS programme, they have a decent staff. In fact, we have made an effort to upgrade equipment. We have launched an improvement of the equipment worth 180 thousand euros at this health center, with a very characteristic purchase of a blood and electrolyte gas analyser, a bone density machine, a ultrasound coloured ultrasound and X-ray digitisation system, together with other lower costs. Of course, it still remains the on-call status of what you said, namely, two people on a newspaper, one on an active and one on a mixed newspaper by night. We think that this is how the flow of incidents that exist during the 24-hour period is covered and obviously there is no question of deterioration or anything else you have said in your question. We evaluate the work of all public structures, record the incidents that come and their movement and whenever we consider it necessary, proceed to the necessary adjustments. The trend, however, is at this time to put more primary care structures in urban centres in 24-hour on-call. We have done so here in Athens on Alexandra Avenue, we are now preparing it to be done at the former PEDY, now Peristeri Health Center, and we have also done so in Thessaloniki at the Evrosmos Health Center. So we are trying to strengthen and upgrade the operation of all primary care structures and not, obviously, dismantle or disorganise the existing operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u137	Minister, I keep your commitment that you have no intention of degrading the health center and its 24-hour operation. Now, as far as the number of doctors you've said, the evidence I have, and the manager of the center gave me, is that there are three clinical doctors, a general medical doctor, who is an adjunct, a gynecologist, a pneumonologist. Also, as far as those who have moved and work seconded by health centers or hospitals are concerned, they are six general doctors and a pathologist from the island's regional hospitals. It's a total of seven, plus three, ten. You said fifteen. I wish it were yours right. What can I say? In any case, however, it is true that this may be enough for it to function on a minimum of 24-hour basis, but it is certainly not enough for the health centre to function properly for the people of Mytilene and the refugees and immigrants. As you said, we may not today have the flows we had in the past, but their number has stabilised to seven - eight thousand. This means that it's 1/3 to 1/4 of the city's population. It's a big burden. Of course, the good operation of a health center on a 24-hour basis cannot be used only by migration. In other words, the inhabitants of the island have the right, even if these refugee flows do not exist, to have the 24-hour operation of the health centre, so that the general hospital of the city is also decongested. Because now, by the slightest, the other one runs to the hospital. And in discussions I had with the doctors at the health center, they told me that every day they had to look into sixty people. As you can see, in an eighth hour to examine sixty people, not even five minutes is for each man. Therefore, I keep your commitment, I repeat, that you do not want to degrade the health centre in general and its 24-hour operation, but it certainly needs more staff to be able to truly meet the needs of Mytilini society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u138	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u139	Let me just fill out the picture, especially for the other primary care structures of the island, in addition to the strengthening of the hospital, which plays a very central role and we really recognise that its human potential has suffered a very high pressure. It was actually called in 2015, which was the head of the refugee crisis, to manage a very large volume of incidents. He made a superhuman effort. That is why we have also made a corresponding effort to support this hospital, which had real needs, really gaps. We have therefore launched the recruitment of eleven permanent staff, fifteen subsidiary, other staff, 12 nurses and other staff who are now assigned by the IASC notice 7K. It has been strengthened with forty one additional people through an OAED programme. We've hired eight auxiliary doctors and have proclaimed nine permanent doctors' posts in the ERC. I think it is a very marked injection of human resources in the hospital, which, when it is completed - because some of these crises are under way - will greatly improve services. There are also the four health centres in the region, which have also recently been visited by the commander of the 2nd sanitary region. We have identified that there are very important needs to upgrade the building infrastructure. The infrastructure's old. This applies to most health centres in our country, unfortunately. Because since the 1980s most of them have not been upgraded. So we will now put them in a programme through the available resources of the OSH, so that there will also be a targeted upgrade of their equipment in these four. And also, in this statement - which I said earlier in Mr Lambroulis' question that we will do - of the four hundred or fifty permanent ERC doctors, there will be provision to meet the most urgent needs of these structures. Also, the two-seat Regional Hospital in Mandamado is being upgraded to a health centre - we have an approved organisation since 2009 - and now this building infrastructure is being launched in cooperation with the municipality. And also, the Agiasos Regional Medical School is transformed into a multi-powered Regional Medical Center - has taken FEK - and the building is remodeled in the area, so that the services are actually improved to both the inhabitants and visitors of the island, which fortunately are many in the summer. We will also renew the positions in local health units, hoping for a greater response at this time, because there are a number of new general doctors and pediatricians and pathologists who have finished specialty and we hope there will be a greater response. And I want to say for the hospital that two critical projects are under way. One is the new wing, which takes place shortly and also, the ergonomic laboratory whose equipment has been launched and there is provision for its staffing. I think, therefore, that the overall picture of the health services in the region has a positive outlook in the coming period. I really want to assure both workers and doctors and the rest of the staff that at the moment the public structures that really offer good, quality services and serve society do not have to be afraid. We will only try to support the country's potential and the financial constraints in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the last question for today, allow me to read out the obstacles to questions which will not be answered. It concerns two Ministers, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou, and the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos. All seven questions are postponed because of a workload. One is Mr Gabroglou and the other six are Mr Tsakalotos. The first question with number 956-11-2017 question of the circle of petitions from the Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Building a new teaching course for the Special Training and Training Laboratory (EEAEK) Mystra" will not be discussed due to an impediment - a workload - of the Minister. The other six are Mr. Tsakalotos. The fifth under number 1153/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the fate of the O.I.TH cash reserves? H.E. After the transfer of the majority of public shares to private individuals, EUR 65,108.327,16, it is not discussed because of an impediment - a workload - by the Minister. The eighth Question No 1167/27-2-2018 by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To pay the former employees everything they are due to", is not discussed as a result of an impediment - a workload - of the Minister of Finance. The twelfth under number 1105/16-2-2018 is a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Unscrupulous developments regarding the sale of the AUGIA “The National”, are not discussed due to an impediment - a workload - of the Minister. The thirteenth, with number 1112/20-2-2018, is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Xanthi, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in Casino", is not discussed because of an impediment - a workload - of the Minister. The Fifteenth, under number 976/5-2-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Which is the exact balance of the bank account of Law No.128/1975?" is not discussed due to an impediment - a workload - of the Minister. The second question under number 2290/28-12/2017 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to further the maintenance and improvement of the existing court of Heraklion (building of the Court of First Instance/Privacy building)", is not discussed as a result of an impediment - workload - of the Minister. For all this, there is the letter from the Secretary of Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the last timely question for today. It is the ninth under No. 1143/26-2-2018 topical question by Independent MEP II, Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Health, on the subject: "An inadequacy of national cancer policy and the lack of innovative oncology". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have about 40 thousand new cases of neoplasm, new cases of cancer each year, and I think you will agree that we do not have a national cancer policy. This is at least unfortunate and affects too many people. Each of us knows someone in his narrow or very narrow circle, who is suffering from this issue. The operation of the oncology and other hospitals has enormous shortages of nurses and medical staff. Remember what happened when the oncologist left the hospital in Mytilini and how did you manage - or did we - to replace the case? Can I remind you that in Lamia, there's no oncologist right now? Should I highlight the cases of transported tumor, a global originality of our country? The machinery is ageed, as the equipment and now chemical treatment and innovative oncology are excluded through Article 98 of Law 4472/17 the famous ‘9-6-3’ measure. The Cancer Federation, the Oncologists' Association of Greece, the Win Cancer Organization, has smashed the alarm a lot, I would say, and I think we should listen to them on the issue of at least the lack of a record of cancer incidents in our country, which means that we do not have the evidence so that we can develop a proper, proper national anticancer policy. Since, therefore, under the National Cancer Programme, the provision for the development of a national neoplasm archive was the code is MIS 464/106 of the Operational Reform Programme 2007-2013 in CEDEFOP, because in the mid-term financial constraints we should finally see the costs as a whole not only closely but also holisticly in relation to medicines the innovative, chemotherapeutic and the costs of hospital spending on early retirement and allowances, I ask you: At what stage of implementation is the operation for the development of a national neoplasm file of the CEDEFOP? Is there any provision to continue funding from either European funds or even national funds? What's the design for this file in general? Is there a programme in progress for 2016 and, from now on, the national cancer programme 2011-2015, with the huge problems it has had and I will see you in secondary? What is planning for exemption from the provisions of Article 98 for patients with rare or metastatic cancer for whom there is no alternative treatment? And finally, how do you intend to deal with the dramatic deficiencies in medical and nursing staff, but also the question of replacing old equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u143	My dear colleague, cancer is indeed the second cause of death in the country after cardiovascular diseases. It is about 30% of men's deaths and 20% of women's deaths. It is a major international problem for health policies. It is a great challenge for the health systems of all countries, including the most developed and strong economics, because we are at a time - fortunately - that research and innovation adds both diagnostic techniques and therapeutic means and new methods of dealing more effectively with many forms of cancer. So this means that we do have to - and this is a great deficit in our country - have a national strategy to deal with cancer that catches the whole range of care, namely prevention, health care, pre-symptoms control, early diagnosis, effective treatment with either chemotherapy, or radiotherapy, until the end-stage care. This is a great deficit in total in the design and organisation of health policy in our country. We are on course at this time of discussion and with the scientific organisations of the tumorologists, namely the scientific firm of oncology in Greece and with patient organisations, the federation of ELOLOC and other primary trade unions representing cancer patients in our country. We have opened a dialogue with the aim of having a body - we will see precisely its organisational form - which will have the overall responsibility of developing a national strategy in the field of cancer. There are serious institutional and operational problems that we need to deal with in the care of oncological patients. One serious issue - but we are on an improved path in this area - is the creation of protocols of diagnostic and cancer healing. We have prepared four therapeutic protocols for the most frequent cancers (pulmonary, colon, prostate and breast) and also ten therapeutic protocols for haematological malignancies, mainly for lymphomas and leukaemias. These are in a phase now that has been completed by the scientific bodies, we have received suggestions and are pending their incorporation into the electronic prescribing system. This is a very important step. The next institutional step is the creation of registers by category of cancer. The national record of neoplasms is certainly an important tool, but I think that what is of greater value is for each individual category of cancer malignancy to have the corresponding record, so as to facilitate the targeted coverage of citizens' needs. We are on a move in this direction, and this is also coupled with negotiation, which is under way through the committee with pharmaceutical companies to achieve affordable prices in expensive oncological medicines. We already have a successful model of very good final negotiation on drugs for malignant melanoma. We are therefore on a course of addressing institutional deficits. The functional problems that you described, especially in oncology hospitals, but also in oncological sections throughout the country, are present. But there too, let me say that efforts and support have been made with medical resources. We have hired forty-five ancillary tumors across all hospitals in the country, and we have announced twenty permanently qualified tumor posts, also in all hospitals in the country. There has been an important task in renewing the equipment, making use of individual donations and very specific features of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and other private bodies, such as the "Angelopoulos", the "Latsis" Foundation, etc. and we have replaced linear accelerators or other devices, related to radiotherapy. These new machines have higher productivity and we have halved the waiting time, which was particularly high in the hospitals of Athens and in the hospital "Agios Savvas". From about five and a half months ago, it has been under the three months, which is a problem, and of course we have to deal with it. Let me also say that there is institutional regulation on what you are saying, on the problem of tumor drugs, which may not be approved by the current external filter, in 963 and the criteria of the HTA, which we have established. There is a circular from the summer with my signature, which allows exceptionally personalised access of tumor patients to the appropriate medicine based on medical documentation, based on very specific criteria, and the EOF and IFET take responsibility for the patient's access to this issue. In fact, we have organised it now, we have made an electronic system of pre-approvals of the EEA, which, in my opinion, fully ensures that patients, who really need - and document this bibliographically - access to an effective medicine, even if it is not on the positive list, can have access to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u145	Minister, I'll start with what I'm glad about. I am pleased that we share the same sensitivities for a group of our fellow citizens who are in a very difficult situation, but also for the results in relation to the public interest in the procedures, which are related to the problem of cancer in these patients. I am also pleased that you have agreed, if you wish - I will say in my own words - that if other countries are in a better financial situation than us, if these countries do not have a national strategic plan to deal with cancer, and in our case it is criminal that we are now having and doing actions which may not be consistent with or which may not create synergies and ultimately either spend more money, or be less effective in dealing with these patients' problems, or both. I have heard your description of what such a national strategic plan should include. I would just add to you - because the description was quite complete - the issue of psychological support for these patients. They must not stay with the stigma of this disease. And this stigma starts, as you know very well, from the beginning of diagnosis, at the point where they should soberly examine with their doctor all the options they have to make to deal with the disease better and instead of that, they have the stigma on them to burden them. I am sorry, because I hear you think there is a need to create a new body, to make a different design from before, and in reality the issue of the national strategic plan for cancer is an old story, launched by Mr Avramopoulos, who has been forgotten and never made. That's why it's not just your responsibility, but you're the Minister for a sufficient period of time, so you can be judged on this point as well. So it started on Abramopoulos. There was never a proper and complete strategic plan, because two things were missing. The financial resources and resources were lacking in staff and other materials. It was therefore a strategic plan on paper, which was released, after being updated and updated only once again on paper, to erase and die in 2015. We therefore need to re-establish it, not necessarily with new structures. But fill in these two missing ones. The rest of the financial resources are missing - and they must be found - which must be supported. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have heard again - and that is why I am not particularly pleased about it - that you describe a new strategy for the register, that it should not now be the National Register of Neoplasms, but it should be individual registers. I'm not a specialist doctor or I'm not one of those people, who should know if one or another record is better in alpha case or beta case. What matters, at last, in this country is to get a plan, which may come from the past, and to implement it. The implementation of any registry is much better than constantly sifting new designs. I think you'll agree on this with me, too. Therefore, I have not heard a timetable from you. I have not heard from you how to finance these registers, which you are telling us should be the individual four or five different registers. So I have too many doubts as to whether this planning can proceed quickly. Finally, I would like to submit three relevant documents. One has to do with the proposals of the Greek Cancer Federation - it is the patient's secondary body, as you know very well - which tells us that the famous Health Technology Association should have equivalent representatives, according to European standards, so that this committee can do better. We are told that there must be no conflict of interest and be independent of the National Medicines Agency. Because it is the evaluation of the medicine and more the approval. Both of these should, even in the more advanced countries, be distinguished. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying this: Minister, I would like to ask you two last things: you said that there is an exceptional procedure. And it is very good that you signed this summer the ministerial decision that allows it. Can you give us information on how many patients have made use of this personalised procedure? Because with this information we will see whether in practice you have actually given a solution, or whether we have simply given a solution to see us in the House, those who are watching us. Finally, I want to present the relevant European guide for the survival of patients with cancer. He's made by the European Society of Pathological Oncology. I would like to ask, Minister, for your attention to be distributed to hospitals in the country. Two European joint actions have now been implemented. In the last European Joint Action, the planning for strategic projects was completed. We have the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Theochari, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have the way. These strategic plans can be built very quickly. We don't have to waste any time. The world organisation in the last European joint action said that what is happening in Greece is shameful for a western European country. Obviously, the rest of the countries are now moving on with the third joint action. I'm sure you have the sensitivity to help these people. But if this sensitivity is not enough, let us do it so that we can finally be effective and not be wasted on actions which do not bring the right results to one another.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u149	I recognise the institutional deficits, which we have as a country, both in terms of recording, but also in terms of the existence of data and records. In fact, I think we have now ensured the survival of the health system, which, in my opinion, was neither easy nor self-evident, nor the easy access of citizens. You must recognise that it was very important that uninsured citizens should only be able to do so with their AMKA, in particular the uninsured oncologically ill, that they do not have the stress that they will not be cured and accept an accurate treatment suitable for their condition, or that this will be translated into an unreasonable financial burden that will be transferred to the DU later. We know very well that these citizens had been charged with tens of millions of euros of debt. This change, I think, has really changed the scenery. Citizens' access is guaranteed. There are no deficiencies in oncology today in public hospitals, as you remember very well that it was a few years ago. The fears of Grexit medicines that are innovative and expensive have not been confirmed because a devastating policy is supposedly being pursued. You remember that these voices of criticism were heard in many respects. We have not allowed pharmaceutical companies to carry out extortion and to effectively withdraw and indeed useful oncological drugs from the country. Recently I have also referred to the House in the case of the ROCHE pharmaceutical company, which had effectively blackmailed the Government and the Ministry's political leadership to withdraw a tumor medicine related to melanoma. After multiple interventions and an indication of the issue, and at European Union level, we prevented this blackmail. We always ensure the evaluation of new innovative medicines with the new system that is being implemented slowly. These days are the invitation for scientists who will serve the HTA Committee with very specific criteria. Please read them. I think that for the first time a serious effort is being made to get the best of the country's scientific staff and to use it without criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u150	People with experience...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u151	Of course, we are in constant contact with both the World Health Organisation and experts from other countries, such as Italy and Portugal, with which we have systematic scientific cooperation. We really want to shield our country's health and pharmaceutical policy with a reliable mechanism. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We've heard this criticism from the patient's club side. We have explained, and the law expressly provides, that the HTA Committee is obliged to consult the patient associations and the scientific community, it is understood, before a decision is taken. However, we considered that they could not participate as equal members, with the right to vote, the patients' associations in the evaluation process. That's a...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u152	In Europe, however, it is practical.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u153	Look, it's not everywhere the same model of these committees. Here we believe that the formation must be with purely scientific criteria and we have even described six fields, including economics, pharmacology, clinical pharmacology, etc., with which this committee will be made up. We have set up a three-member committee which will recommend to the Minister eighteen names from which six will be chosen for the task of the committee, plus those that will be ex officio. I think that we are taking a step forward and, above all, that this step is accompanied by an upgraded process of price negotiations. This has not existed until now in our country. It was largely the cause of the major explosion of pharmaceutical expenditure over the past decade and I think that this is how we cover up and shield the system. There is an attempt to deal with operational problems in hospitals, which you rightly point out to be there. I don't deny that. But you understand that, for us in particular, oncology hospitals are hospitals of special sensitivity and make an effort to distribute, whether doctors or other staff, to have the necessary priority. Also in cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we will add three more very modern diagnostic tools that are PET/CT, beyond the five public which already exist, and three more will be added to major university hospitals in the region. I think, therefore, that the overall scope of the oncological policy, cancer policy, is the priority that should be given to it. It needs a little more upgraded terminal organisation and data-based design, which should be recorded by the specific registers. We'll see the National Neoplasm Archive. It's not our intention to give up. It is, however, under discussion that a new national public health body is developing into a new ERIC. We'll see the range of illnesses that it covers, because there's a conversation about it. We will hear opinions and get models from other European countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u155	I think we will find the best solution, which will give what you agree with, the necessary political priority in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-05-S1-commons.u157	With the consent of the House at 22.00 noon, the sitting for the next Wednesday, 7 March 2018, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
