ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the first with the number 775/9-1-2018 topical question of the second cycle (A) of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject of “Great the costs of moving soldiers”. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Dimitrios Vitsas. Please, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that the problem is acid, but it has become much more acute during the holiday season. We have received complaints from soldiers, soldiers, and we ask them under conditions that are not easy for real life to serve the country at any cost, and that costs become unbearable. Specifically, there were soldiers from the 21st Transit Logo in Komotini who wanted to take holidays to their homes in the Peloponnese or the islands and the cost reached about 250 euros per soldier. And so starts a problem, which yes you will tell me and answer that it was loaded by previous ministers, who have dismantled the transgressive boarding cards with a boarding card for one route. When they went to protest, what they collected was that it must be done by the cheapest means. That's not foreseeable from anywhere. Take the train from Alexandroupolis, a single direction, with a boarding card to go to Thessaloniki for six hours and from there and then move to Peloponnese or the islands. And that's how the issue begins to be generalised. In such circumstances here, right now, the movements of our soldiers, our militant children, had to be free. You made a decision on travel in Athens, but from there on to the border and other regions, even to take the children to Rafina or to St. Andreas, they pay a ticket to the CBEL about 5,40 euros, 5,60 euros. It's expensive as a cost. And then with a card how to first serve? You also use as a pretext the fact that they are holidays and because they are holidays the way out is festive, but they are moved for reasons of psychology and morale and for reasons of association with families, and because these children can't move only those who can. There had to be free movement for the recruited youth. And we think that from the time we spend - and we are really spending too much money - for not only our own but also our own naval and other needs, let us cut off a plane, Minister, one of the planes we are about to buy so that children can move freely and not be paid out of their pockets. They're ready, they raced, they've got a report. In some areas something has been achieved, but that is not enough and it is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u3	The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Kanelle, I will not tell you about the responsibilities of the previous ones. They have responsibilities for so many things that we add this, I don't know if they'll sweat their ears. I will tell you that it is an existing problem, elsewhere larger. How do we deal with it? There are what we are doing right now. I imagine you are well aware that the service moves of soldiers and others, their hospitalisation, their referral to health or other committees, are carried out by service or hired vehicles or by the use of the conditions of boarding. As you have said, a state of return is granted to soldiers during their term of office, if their permission - because that is what we are talking about - is more than four days. This year we took one more step. In other words, we signed a free move for the Attica region for all the soldiers, the cadets, the permanent and the political personnel. At the same time, we have authorized and signed at the moment - if they have not already been signed - the highest commanders of the guards of Thessaloniki, Patras, Kalamata, Ioannina and Heraklion, so that there is a corresponding convention. There's enough of them. With regard to the movements of servicers in the process of exit, they shall be entitled to use the means used and the permanent staff. We must also refer to Cyprus, where they enter, in cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus, special buses that can transport them to Nicosia. To have a fuller information, the contract signed by the Ministry of National Defence with the Ministry of Transport, namely the OSCE, has a cost of 991,000 for the Ministry of National Defence - I am talking about Attica - and with the five other cities that I mentioned 112,000, that is to say, a total cost of 1,133,000 for these free transport. Today we announced a series of measures at the level of the year 2018 "the year of care of the personnel" and the care of the personnel are also soldiers, soldiers, etc. We have agreed with the "TRAINOSE" 25% discount, with the CBELs, in the same way, a 25% discount and we are looking at, that is, we are negotiating free tickets to the public transport service to the most deprived soldiers serving at the border. So we're in that direction. Finally, we are negotiating with airlines - after all, the CBS and the airlines, as you know, are private companies - so that we can buy tickets and make such an allocation - you will know that if someone buys a two-month air fare before it even buys it at 20%, at 30% of its price - and in this way we can make it easier for our staff on these journeys. Acknowledging, then, that, on the one hand, there is a matter, particularly for the poorest children, who serve their homeland, within what we would call budgetary margins and the possibilities that we have as the Ministry of National Defence, we are trying to facilitate their movements as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Kanelli, you still have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u6	I have no doubt that someone wants to solve such a problem. But I would just like you to stand up and recognize that the concept of a discount, the concept of a bargain, makes me feel unpleasant. I guess you too. At the moment, we are talking about militant young people, Greeks, the staff of productive schools, i.e. all the children who are in the Armed Forces. And I say "children", in the sense of youth. I don't want to get any misunderstanding or seem to be more petty than I should be. It doesn't fit any of these cases. You and I, too, understand that you are in the mandatory position, precisely because there is no more public service, even the airlines, must make the bargains, buy tickets, make a 25% discount, so to speak. How much would it really cost for soldiers to be transported free of charge by trains, planes and what is necessary, better and sooner for transfer, for secondments, for movements that are not necessarily due to illness? For exterior people in the regions, I say this - and then all this should be passed on and payable there. You can't predict which soldier, where, how many times he'll need to move. Isn't that right? You can't, no matter how much you want, no matter how well organized it is. When we talk about the licence, at least it's a free ticket to the nearest municipality, in the nearest area than the camp or in the area where they're seconded and serve. We cannot cover that. And why defy it with atrocious amounts, which are needed for equipment, which is not necessarily our own interests? It's not! We are in alliances and we have obligations towards NATO, against our American allies, the French there, the Germans more to get things. It cannot exceed a line overall and permanently so that it is not at everyone’s discretion to change it according to the beam. And then the idea that someone will get the free because he is a winterer citizen, completely inappropriate but serves at the border, de facto creates a feeling within a camp, in a spear, in a unit, in a group of soldiers, so deeply classic that it can also become degrading. One who can give 2,5 euros will give it and the other will be indebted and will not give it. Does this in a camp create a moral folk necessary to defend anyone? Is our economic need so irresponsible? Can't we cut off something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Vitch has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u8	I have written your proposal and we are open to other proposals that can now improve on the record. Because the central problem, as you can see, is not - nobody would say - the internal transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u9	Economics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u10	No, I'm saying it's not the inland transport. Some other issues have been solved. I mean, since the 110 Battle Wing of Larissa, there's a way for the other one to go for free - and we already have it - to Volos, to Trikala. And the reconstruction of the army solves a number of issues. The fact, in other words, that thousands of people are now moving free of charge, because the transfer or secondments are free of charge to the islands, Evros and northern Greece. Such measures should also be taken. So I said we were receptive. I would say to you that I am concerned - for it to be known - not only the gunmen, but also the short-class guns and the PDOs. Why can't we say that gunmen receive a fee of EUR 8.5 a month? And that's coupled with what you're saying. But also for a man who takes 700 euros with 750 euros, we understand that even his move is difficult. And we're in a direction like this. And having 2018 as a year of care, i.e. firm and stable decisions, which will come and solve issues of time, I would say that we are in this direction. Of course, you have also pointed out - but I have no reason to point out that the Ministry of National Defence and not the gunman, not the commander, is bazaaring with a number of private companies. Of course, I must tell you regardless of your question that we are also trying to resolve other issues. Today we announced our efforts. The Ministry of National Defence, i.e. the AOA's funds and reserve, should be used to redeem the'red' and 'green' loans of military and civilian personnel and returnees and so to resolve the issue. We will buy it out and pay it another way, and not the way it is being done at the moment by the banks or by the foreign funds. They will save enough money, and those who have not, and have been forced to'red' their loans from the army itself. We are in this direction, in other words in order to serve or find solutions, which are very practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u11	So you'll be checked in 2018 for what you promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u12	Yes, if you want to, you can confirm it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u13	MEP Mr. Ioannis Maniatis is applying for a short-day absence abroad from 29 January to 30 January 2018 for his participation in Mercator European Dialogue "The Energy Security Nexus".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the Secretary-General of the Government informs Parliament that five questions will be answered from today's topical Question Time and 11 will not be discussed for the following reasons: The second under number 753/8-1-2018, the first-cycle question (B) by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tuliarakis in Eurogroup. The third, with number 741/4-1-2018, a top-circuit question (B) by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dangerous developments regarding the sale of EUCI "NATIONAL" will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tsakalotou in Eurogroup. The third, with number 707/2-1-2018, a second-cycle question (B) by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos”, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant ministers in the Eurogroup. The fourth question under number 737/3-1-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Questions regarding the agent's case, disclosures made by the Minister of National Defence", will not be discussed due to lack of competence, the Ministry of Interior is responsible. The first under number 772/9-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Minister (God). This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the The first, with number 754/8-1-2018, a second-cycle question (B) by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In a marginal situation, the infrastructures of the public hospitals in the country will not be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Minister (Association). This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the The second, under No 849/16-1-2018, top-circuit question (A) by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Surface image presents the General Hospital of Artas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible (As a result. This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the The third, with number 851/16-1-2018, a top-circuit question (A) by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of staff shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the The fourth question under number 708/2-1-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the New Republic of Attica, Georgiou Vlachos, concerning the application of clawback to contracted health providers and not manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible (Absolutely). This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the Question No 453/17-10-2017 by Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: ‘Recommendation of an EKAV station in Naples Boeing of the Municipality of Monemvasia’, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Health (EKAO). This item is intended to record the amount of the balance sheet items in the The second question under number 736/3-1-2018 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Evangelos Karakostas to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Full the decline of universities", will not be debated as a result of an impediment of the Minister responsible. The first question will be discussed under No 844/16-1-2018 by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Tourism, on "Strengthening the education and training of human resources in the tourism sector". The timely question will be answered by Minister Koudoura. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u15	Minister, we are discussing a very important piece today, the part of education, training and lifelong learning of human resources in the tourism sector, which play a particular role in strengthening tourism development and in upgrading the quality of tourism services. In particular, I should like to remind you that after the abolition of the Tourism Education and Training Agency by previous governments in 2013, undermining the responsibility of the tourist schools, with a simple directorate of the Ministry with merciful means and responsibilities, the abolition of post-training was followed and, consequently, the abolition of the functions of the departments throughout Greece. The retraining of employees of tourist professions over time have produced significant results in organising and improving the culture and culture of customer service, which are a unique educational institution for workers and are aimed at improving and developing their qualifications. Workers in the tourism sector with over three years of experience have been able to follow the retraining programme for two to three months, if I am not mistaken. The graduates of OTEK's post-training courses were given an official status and received a 10% degree allowance on the basic salary. You can imagine, indeed, especially today, how important this is for the workers. These, of course, are now a past, and we cannot talk about guaranteeing workers' rights, but also about training which has now passed or is slowly going on to private individuals. In Heraklion, at the tourist stadium, the vocational school has for many years contributed to the reorganization of the modernization of tourism education and training and the creation of a modern system of certification of professional qualifications in the tourism sector. We must not forget that tourism is an important source of wealth for our country, for our country. Our country must strengthen its international competitive advantage, so we must invest in human resources, modernise structures, upgrade public education and training and link them up with the needs of work and business operation. So, Minister, there is now an urgent need to create a modern framework for education and vocational training in the tourism sector, which will improve the competitiveness of our country and ensure professional rights for employees in the tourism sector. So I think that our cooperation must be immediately so that the post-training departments can be reopened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u16	Minister Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. In fact, tourism education, lifelong learning and retraining of human resources are areas of high priority for our Government and of course for the Ministry of Tourism. Since the first moment in the context of our national tourism policy for four years and in cooperation with the Ministry responsible - and I am very pleased that Mr Gavroglou is here - but also with all the stakeholders, we are working intensively to upgrade and modernise public tourism education and we are planning changes - sectors so that we can, as you have quite rightly said, have an upgraded tourist training and trained professionals, with high quality that can come out in the workplace. It is well known that we have received a degraded tourism education, with many problems, with malfunctions, with very basic shortcomings in legislation, and with no prospect of playing a key and decisive role in the development of Greek tourism and the new generation, in particular, of the people who want to deal with the tourism sector. As you quite rightly said, OTEK was abolished in 2013. This was a very serious issue, it was the Autonomous Organisation of Tourism Education. Immediately afterwards, all three tour schools were closed. The NSAs also closed down and in general in 2015 we received a dramatic situation. We have, however, moved very intensively, asked for the cooperation and proposals of the Members responsible for tourism from all the political parties and, at the same time, we have set up an informal committee of scientists for the submission and preparation of all these proposals. At the same time, we activated the institutionalized committee of the tour school, which had not been activated to review and draw up the rules of the school's operation. The school, as you know, will reopen this year. It was a commitment of our government and it was done. We are working with the Ministry responsible, so that we can organise more efficiently and on new sound basis the area of public tourism education not only the upgrading of the above schools of tourism, which, as you quite rightly said, govern a special higher education scheme and we are in cooperation with the Minister, so that we can resolve this problem and, of course, modernise the training provided to the eight IEC tourism. I note that due to the Memorandum of Understanding, in previous years there has been a 10% reduction in our teachers every year. As you can see, this has been a very serious problem in order to ensure the necessary training staff. In particular, our aim was to reopen the tour school and it was very difficult to fill operational gaps and complete all the necessary procedures. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. With regard to post-training, I would like to say that the retraining programmes, despite the limitations due to the Memorandumary Obligations, have been drawn up and we have a comprehensive proposal. With a very hard effort we have ensured the necessary resources to finance the projects relating to seasonal unemployed, to tourist workers, and we have secured them from the national part of the Ministry of Tourism's Public Investment Programme for three years. These programmes are not part of formal education. They are considered to be training courses which lead to inconsistent qualifications, and until now we have ensured the following: retraining courses will take place in all thirteen regions of Athens. We have taken into account all the proposals made by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Food Workers and by the officials of the Tourism Professionals. Do not forget that in the past there were only four cities, and so this is very important. We have informed the OAED that it will provide the budget for expenditure on the provision of retraining and insurance contributions. We started the recruitment process of the necessary educational and administrative staff to implement the programmes in the first period. More specifically, a budget of EUR 4 million was adopted and of course a hundred people as educational and administrative staff FORTH, eighty-five teachers and fifteen managers. The immediate subsequent actions, therefore, by our Ministry for the implementation of the programmes, are as follows: to adopt a decision determining the number of students selected by the tourist business; to select the trainees, the recruitment of teachers, the adoption of a decision setting hours of the starting and end of the training period, the adoption of a decision on the approval of educational materials, books, notes, digital educational material, the definition of the timetable for the work of the post-training departments, the coordination and follow-up of the project and, finally, the adoption and award of diplomas for the post-training graduates.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u18	You have a second, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore have a loyal strategy within the framework of the new, national tourism policy, which, of course, focuses on a modern and functional framework for education and vocational training, which meets the data and needs of the tourist market and the European Union directives, with a view to improving the quality of service and increasing competitiveness in the tourism sector. We are also moving towards the digital upgrading of tourist education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u21	Madam Minister, I must admit that the answer really gives us a sense of optimism. But you made a mistake when you said thirteen regions of Athens. I imagine you meant Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u22	Yes, I meant Greece. In the thirteen regions of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u23	I would like to say to you that we will be supportive and supportive of such actions, in fact, in any way we can - everyone who knows the subject. But I would like to tell you that the sooner you target the operation of the Post-Education Sections, the better. It is really, as I said, an urgent need, because there are objective weaknesses - the recruitment of teachers, the expression of interest of students - so it will take a year. So I want to know if there is a specific timetable for these parts that I have told you. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is really imperative, not only for economic reasons, but because I have told you that the tourist product is what it really needs to be trained throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u25	The truth is, we want high quality, like I told you, and specialized professionals in the industry. That is why we are trying as far as we can, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, to be able to ensure this upgrade. Our proposal, in general, concerns not only the upgrading of tourism education, but also the wider issues of the area of tourism industry. With the new draft law, which is at the stage of integration, we will cover and settle all the needs of tourism education. As far as the timetable for the Post-Education Departments is concerned, today we held a meeting with the Presidents of the Work Centres of Crete and Rhodes and representatives of the Administration of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Food and Occupational Tourist Professionals and on their own request - because the truth is that we have very good cooperation - it was agreed that the retraining programmes will begin in November and will take place for three consecutive years. Now, from there on, the objectives of our new national tourism policy are to upgrade and modernise all the educational structures of state-owned tourism. We want to meet international standards, of course. Finally, I would say that it is very important that the Post-Education Departments will operate in all thirteen regions throughout Greece - because I said 'in Athens' before. It is very important to inform the Members and the House that in the past post-training has only been done in four cities. You can understand that this was not very helpful. And now in all thirteen regions everyone who can watch these departments do real retraining will be able to do so. Finally, we amplify the schools of SATE, IEK, the Ministry of Tourism and, of course, the Tours School. Don't forget that the Tour School was a commitment of our Government and we're very proud that it's starting to work. We hope that, apart from Athens, it will work both in Thessaloniki and Corfu. We are trying to find the proper resources. It is very important to be able to ensure that young people, young generations, a successful transition from school to the new working environment and, of course, to the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u26	We move to the second, with number 776/9-1-2018, a topical question for the second time (A) by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the merger of 1st and 2nd Municipal Schools of Vonicas Itolokarnania. Please, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The current government, taking the baton from the previous ones, continues its anti-popular education policy. It continues to merge and abolish schools. Of course, this policy continues, Minister, and through the multi-project that was passed a few days ago. In this direction, the Directorate of Primary Education of Atolokarnania, implementing this policy, proposes the merger of the 1st and 2nd Primary Schools in Vonitsa, without even giving any justification. At least, this has reached our ears and the Municipal Council. If there's anything else, please, testify. This is, Minister, a twelfth and a seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven school. They are the largest in the municipality and the number of their students exceeds three hundred and twenty. The forthcoming merger will add further problems, rather than solve, in our view, why the students who are currently in these schools, as you know, are in a container. Of course, it is not just that students are taught in containers lately, but the building, which is under construction, is not going to be completed, at least in a short time, as it seems at least. However, the most important thing is that even if this building is completed, there are seventeen rooms, while the ones required by the current situation - because we will then say that there is a serious chance that students will increase - are at least twenty-five. This means that students will be stacked in twenty-five sections and forced to take lessons again in containers or in other places, which will be far away, but which will not meet any of the educational processes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, we must inform you of this: I do not know what information you have. We tell you that even if we assume that the two schools are united, you will be forced to transfer students to other places, because, as I said, the halls are not enough. In addition, given that work has to be done in the yard, containers must be removed from there. Assuming that there is still an instruction in a container or if they continue to use other auxiliary spaces, it will be far away. For in the yard, at the school under construction, some work will need to be done, such as sewerage of rainwater and other work. Therefore, children will be transferred to another place, as I said, either to be conducted or to attend their courses. Of course, Mr Minister, mergers will, in our view, lead to the abolition of at least one organic position. In general, however, this also opens up the way for the mobility of permanent teachers, but also the way to unemployment for assistant teachers. Minister, we ask you immediately to withdraw the proposal for a merger of the 1st and 2nd Vonicas Municipal School, to proceed immediately to the construction of a new building, where the 2nd Municipal School in Vonitsa will be housed. In particular, as far as the construction of the building is concerned, there is a concession from the municipality to the Ministry of Education of a suitable place where there can indeed be a new school that meets all the conditions for education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u28	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that by 2015 some two thousand mergers took place, while our own government has a very conscious policy not to proceed to mergers, which are decided centrally. To implement mergers, we need a proposal from the training directors and the regional manager. So everything we're thinking about doing is following the suggestion of the people who know these problems, such as the training director, the school manager and the regional manager. That's something we have to respect. The second is this: you are telling me everything you have said, and so far no request has been made by the Municipality of Ikios - Vonicas in respect of the veterinary programme. Here's a topic: The buildings, as you know, are the responsibility of the municipalities. We have a problem with too many municipalities, which do not send us their livestock programmes. I understand that many times the funds that they have are not enough to be able to sustain certain buildings, etc. However, if we do not have a programme for what they want to do and what the problems are, we cannot regulate any flow of funding from the Ministry of Interior to the municipalities. As far as the specific point you have said is concerned, let's see it again. We cannot, however, stop something if we do not come underneath these proposals. If they come, they're obviously willing to see it again. You know the decisions of the municipalities are not binding on the Ministry. We want opinions from the people themselves who know this problem. The municipalities have the responsibility of maintenance. The rest is also a problem which has to do with school education, etc. I keep the figures you give me, and the problem you are telling me is not secondary, and I do not want to underestimate it, but we must, in fact, keep some procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u30	Again, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr Minister, I asked you to give us the proposal of primary education. Because I am also a municipal advisor to the Municipality of Actios and Vonitsas, I tell you that there has been no detailed justification for this proposal. If you have anything, please testify. Now, with regard to the bodies' proposals, I have here the collection of at least six hundred signatures and continue to collect from parents, guardians and institutions in the region - and I will put it in the Minutes - which mention the enormous problems that exist with regard to building facilities and not just. Minister, you are well aware that this anti-Fraud policy, which is implemented over time, not only by your own government, but by your own government, continues to devastate the countryside. I have to tell you that the number I mentioned in my prototype of three hundred and twenty students may be much larger, because they actually lead schools to deterioration, whether they become one-stop-stop-stop-shopped or dismantled, so that students from nearby local communities are transferred to the capital. Whether students are forced to move, or parents are forced to reside in the capital, so that their children can actually attend this educational process. There is therefore a serious possibility that children will be much more soon. As far as the building is concerned, Minister, the School Buildings Agency has been abolished. We are talking here about a building which has become a 'bridge of Arta'. It's been built for 15 years. Since the 2003 earthquake, known as the earthquake in Lefkada, repairs are made and, because the funding is done with the dropper, we have strong reservations as to whether it will be completed in the next period, as it says, in 2018. Even if this building is completed, it does not qualify for these two schools to be housed. I have the impression that you have been sent by the municipality to give a plot that meets these standards. If the municipality didn't send it to you, I'll make sure the next time it reaches your hands. In closing, Minister, we invite you to stop any action to merge these schools. Already, in the text I am tabling to you, it seems that the parent and guardian association puts these serious problems in detail. It is a requirement for the people of this region. The Communist Party of Greece supports their struggle. It will be on their side, so that there really is such a school that meets all the conditions for modern needs. What we have as a condition is that there are twenty students per teacher and per room. That is our view, and it is also a proposal from the parent and guardian association. So, Minister, please stop any action for this merger of these two schools, whose students will grow over the next period. Because in fact, as I said, a number of students will be transferred to these schools because, as you know very well, there can be no education available when talking about one-stop shops and two-seat schools. Parents will be forced to go to these schools. The figure will therefore be much higher.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr Gavroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u33	I will give you this proposal you have asked for. I'll make sure he comes. Look. Budgets are data, and in this context we will be discussing it. Within these budgets, we think we have taken very positive initiatives. One initiative - for which I think you are unfair in your assessment - is the issue of small-scale schools. I'm surprised you're telling me that children can't be educated in the oligospheric schools. The little schools are in the last of our country. It is the government's choice to strengthen them, and from this year eight hundred and thirty-five, from one to four, is now full day. That's never happened before. We say this because we want to keep the world on the ground, but we want to upgrade education at the same time. So here too, the role of the parties is to explain to the world a number of pedagogical issues. Small schools are not being abolished, fewer schools are being strengthened and need to be strengthened. It's not secondary schools, it's oligosexuals. Now, the other problems you have put - particularly in the matter of the time being that more and more children can be raised and more children are already inappropriate - these are serious issues. I, too, think that this type of issue needs to be made in consultation with the training directors, the regional directors and obviously also with representatives of the municipality or parents - I have absolutely no problem - and they should come and tell us exactly what it is to see what we can do. But with complaints I'm very afraid these issues cannot be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u34	Here is the third question by number 777/9-1-2018 (A) by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning foreign-language school books that are for payment in all public high schools. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the fact that our timely question is being debated with a relative delay, its timeliness is for a given and time-consuming, since the issue to which it refers remains unresolved for years. We refer to books on language courses in high school, both compulsory and selection courses, for which, unfortunately, this year, the unacceptable status of pupils is not available free of charge to all types of public high school. So these books, which, among other things, are expensive - 20, 30 euros each - usually pay for by parents themselves in their pockets, while, of course, the popular families are narrowing up to get through. Rarely the school committees themselves buy them, leaving aside other urgent needs of their schools, since their financing by the state is dramatically reduced. Here, let's say this state grant is about half of what it took a few years ago. In our view, Mr Minister, this cannot go any further. We must finally put an end to this unacceptable phenomenon. They cannot be forced to buy high schoolchildren their books, while people's incomes are constantly falling, while poverty is growing, while unemployment is hitting red. Finally, we think it is time for you to give an immediate solution and for all books, all classes, all levels for foreign languages, which are now being taught in public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Delis, you did testify to your question on January 9th. I want to assure you that from next academic year these writings will be given free of charge. It is an unacceptable regime that we inherited. The state cannot trade with traders. It's against public and free education. From the academic year 2018-2019, from next September, all levels, foreignlanguage books will be available free of charge to students, as should be provided free of charge to students. As regards the other part of your question, regarding certificates etc., until the end of February the Ministry of Education will announce its full programme on the subject of language learning in schools. There is a deficit and the deficit is not a problem for teachers. It is the whole structure, which leads, forces, urges many families to send their children to learn foreign languages outside school. We hope that by the end of February we will be able to announce a complete programme that will significantly strengthen foreign language learning in school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Delia, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u40	I asked you because the Minister said that next year he would resolve this matter. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u41	It is a pleasure to hear that from the Minister. Of course, we will be here to see if this is to be implemented, because we are full of announcements. I don't have anything personal with the Minister, but we have every reason to doubt it. In fact, for the implementation of this announcement, which I repeat that we have listened with pleasure that these books of foreign languages will be given from the next school year for free, we would like to say this year. We do not understand why this is not the case. But we have a little objection to the fact that this announcement is not based on any funds from the state budget for education. I would remind you here - and we have said this in the budget debate - that the budget line on expenditure, the funding of the school committees is down by 24 million compared with last year for 2018. I do not know if the Minister finds another heading - there are always some funds of this - to support the announcement. We'll wait. We say we don't expect people to wait and claim it this year. And say something that we have said in the budget debate: Education costs account for some of the expenditure on naval equipment. That's about four billion, and that shows a lot to our minds. In relation to the need, at least to this day we are talking, the student to learn foreign languages at school and his disciple and family to pay the books and the announcement, as he has heard, the Minister opened the question of the reform of language education programmes at school. In our view, there is a need for a substantial change in the way in which foreign languages are treated in schools. I think you will agree with me that so far it has not been the way. I want to tell you in this regard that some steps that could strengthen, that is to say, more substantial the teaching of all foreign languages at school, would be, for example, an increase in teaching hours in schools. A second would be the change of books. To have these books, which will really support the effective learning of the language and, of course, their free distribution. Another crucial issue is the reduction of pupils by section. As you can see, otherwise the teacher works in a department with fifteen and twenty children, and otherwise with twenty-five or thirty, and especially in the field of foreign language. And of course, it is also an important issue to recruit the necessary permanent teachers. That's what I wish we could hear. Nothing does, of course, prophesy that you will move in that direction. In our view, anti-population machinery and education operate in full and we think they should be vigilant and racing preparedness and parental and student movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u42	I said you don't need to talk, after the Minister's assurance that the books will be free next year. Mr Delis, however, raised the question of the financial support for the programme. So I repack what I said, that you had no reason to speak, as you raised the matter differently. So you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u43	There is one logic that our policy in education is unpopular does not help the debate. Because it's a slogan, and I could reverse it and say it's prologue. Indeed, if you see the arrangements that we have brought, and if you see that education, beyond the budget, in the institutions, has made extremely important and very positive steps - and I challenge you to tell me what is not such a thing - you will see that it is not at all anti-popular. If you now identify the issue of the anti-grassroots or philosopher exclusively with the issues of funding, it is obvious that we are divided by very wide differences in the understanding of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u44	We don't separate it like that, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u45	The funding we know is very low. The issue of appointments is an extremely serious issue that we need to see. However, education and its quality are not solely judged on the basis of these two parameters. The reason why you may have been a little confused by the matter of the budget for books is that we will not buy the existing books. We're preparing other material. That's what matters. We are not going to say 'good, not paying children and the state pays them'. As in the rest, we have procedures under which books are produced - not only physically, but also their writing - which is exactly how we go about the matter of foreign-language books, which I insist has been delayed for too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u47	Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I did not open up the question of the content of education, which for us is extremely serious. I only stood on financial support for education. As you can see, in a question we cannot talk about everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u49	But we cannot do tritology in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue with the fourth question under number 820/12-1-2018 (A) by the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Minister of Athens of Potamio Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Athens student centres. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u50	Minister, the situation in the students' homes of Athens is extremely unpleasant. This is happening at a time when we all understand - and you too well - that the economic crisis has caused serious problems for families whose children are studying away from homes, in other cities, in other places, and who need very serious support for their everyday lives. In other words, what we call safe housing is needed, since they cannot otherwise manage their economic capacity to have their own homes. If that is the case - and I think it is absolutely certain that you have the same opinion - we must see how we face a situation, which I repeat is particularly unpleasant in the homes, which have been offered to restore this function, the function of the accommodation of students and their everyday life. I do not want to refer specifically to each of the outbreaks, because about all of them, Mr Minister, are facing the same problems, the Athens student hall, the Painter's dorm. I have the impression that you know a number of problems that are related to how they are today and what the condition of their pipes, the humidity of the rooms, whether or not they have clean water each day, if there is the possibility through these oxidized pipes to have the heating needed. All of these are problems relating to the whole of students' homes. I have the impression that we need to see what you can do to help restore these problems. I would also like to say that I will concentrate my question on one: What do you intend to do? Not all, Minister, with a plan that you cannot have. I am sure you are taking this seriously and responsiblely. A comprehensive plan for the future may have. But right away, what are you going to do? The problem is direct planning and direct management by the Ministry of these issues. I would again say that in the long term, I am sure that your personal and political sensitivity will not have a plan in its hands. Tomorrow morning what we do about issues relating to the daily life of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u51	Me too, Mr. Lykoudi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lykoudis, you have used a very polite expression: the situation is unpleasant. I would say that the situation is extremely unpleasant at home. You know that I do not mislead previous governments as a key element of my public statements. But you know very well that when you receive abandoned buildings, the hardest thing is to start their operation. So these were forgotten by gods and people, and that is why you focus on what needs to be done now and not on the long-term plan. We had specific speeches of a direct nature. For example, at the Polytechnic with hot water pipes, burners, etc. We did it. We do the same in other focal points. Know, too, that it's not the same situation in all the homes. We have universities that are very good, like, say, the Yannina, Crete. It is a problem that cannot be solved with the old logic that says "to find money to do homes". Obviously, we have to go to a much more complex way, such as, for example, to the feeding, which often comes in consultation with restaurants in small towns where they are students and the feeding takes place in and by this agreement we make with these restaurants. What we have now is a new administration in INEDIBIM, which is a supervised body, which is responsible for the financial management of these contracts. We want these procedures, to the extent possible, to go to the universities themselves together with the corresponding funds and to come to two parallel meetings, firstly, what we do with the existing ones and what we do in the long term. With the current situation, that is, like things, we operate firearms, elsewhere successful, otherwise not, because you know that with the notices, with the delays, with the objections, with one and the other, sometimes the problem gets worse over what you had from the beginning, before you make the notices. So my answer is that we've taken various measures, - I mean firearms, as I told you - they've worked. It does not solve the problem of the quality of the restaurants. Because it can't be a place where you're okay, you can sleep at night, but all the other possibilities you have to be at zero level, because we have to do with students who have a tranquility and some conditions can read about the next day, etc. It is a plan that we are doing in the long term, we have a budget not too big, but enough to deal with the daily problems and, depending on the needs that arise, we have the workshops or contractors who face these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u53	Please, Mr Vice-President, Mr Lykoudi, have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u54	Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for accepting the correctness of my remarks and, indeed, for exceeding my own descriptions. I think that is a good thing, because we can in any case say that something needs to be done. I didn't miss the report randomly to the Yannina and Crete. I know that things are better, but the problem is in the capital of what we are doing, where there are thousands of students, where the relationship of their everyday lives with the homes is very serious. Here, then, there is one problem and I will take on a second-guessing attempt to insist on asking you to clarify something that has dizzled me. Who is responsible for the financial operation of student restaurants and who is responsible for their funding? I read that INEDBIM has competences and responsibilities for the effective functioning of the studies. Below I read that the responsibility of organising, operating, maintaining and modernising infrastructure lies with educational institutions. Minister, I'm dizzy. I don't understand the concepts. I don't understand where one institution is involved with the other body. You know what? I'm telling you that, and I think you understand that. The safest way to never do anything is to involve the responsibilities. No one wants to know what he wants, where he wants it, how he wants it, and whether he's responsible for what he wants and what he wants. I say this sincerely because the recognition of this issue by you in my protology gives me the impression that I do not have to argue in my dentistry. Untie me that problem. Who is responsible for the effective functioning and management of the study centres, the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation or educational institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u55	Here, Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Look, Mr Colleague, part of the problem, not all of the problem, it is a matter of co-responsibility. INEDIABIM has a responsibility for many aspects of addressing operational needs, etc. However, this is not all the centres, because some of them belong to the universities themselves. We therefore have a regime under which some belong to universities, while other outbreaks due to the fact that they belonged to the Youth Foundation that was converted into INEDIBIM, belong to INEDIBIM. These are things that don't help the operation. I tell you first. That is why we have now said with the new management board that we have set up, to make a haircut, if you like, of INEDIAMIM's responsibilities. In other words, we say that the universities should take the responsibilities of the restaurants and of feeding, with the corresponding funding, the Ministry should take some other responsibilities and the supervised body should have its own responsibilities. In fact, we say that these three are not involved, because, to the extent that all of this is involved, especially in the homes and feedingstuffs, quality is very low and with the first calculations we have made, there is also a great waste of public money. It is not that there is any complication or scandal, but all these procedures are not rational. I therefore fully agree with you that this ambiguity is part of the problems. That is why we are saying that we should split our responsibilities rigorously. In fact, there are many cases where there are some responsibilities for INEDIDIS, some have institutions. We can't move like this. The university institutions will obviously have a need to strengthen their administrative staff, because we cannot charge them without any administrative staff and we will see one - one at each university. I therefore think that at the end of February we will begin these processes so that, at last, after a long time, this separation can be carried out, which will rationalise the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-22-S1-commons.u58	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.20 the sitting for the next Wednesday, January 24, 2018, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
