ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 8-3-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICAL session of Thursday 8 March 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 12 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1260/6-3-2018 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki at the former "Karatasios" Camp." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neoslett Training Centre". 3. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on "When will a National Action Plan against Drugs finally be drawn up and adopted?" 4. The Question No 1225/2-3-2018 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Approximately EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou with reference to the Minister of Health: "Without pediatrician for the last two and a half months, the Aegina Health Center - Deficiencies and ophthalmologists and ORL." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1232/5-3-2018 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: “The investigations into loans to parties have been completed?” 3. The question under number 1153/26-2-2018 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the fate of the reserves of "OLTH S.A.?""of EUR 65,128.327,16 after the transfer of the majority of public shares to private individuals?". 4. The 1167/27-2-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To pay the former employees of ATE everything that is due to them." 5. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Concerning developments regarding the sale of S.A. 'NATIONAL'. 6. The 1112/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, with reference to the Minister of Finance, concerning: 'Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?' REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy by Athanasios Davaki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Building a new teaching course for the Special Training and Training Laboratory (EEAEK) Mystras". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 2290/28-12/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to proceed with the maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary in Heraklion (Court of First Instance/Privatial Court building)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, a total of five topical questions will be discussed. Two of them have the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. We will begin with the fifth under number 1081/13-2-2018, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the creation of a landfill area for hazardous waste (HYTEA) in Megalopolis. Thank you, too, for giving Mr Karathanasopoulos her position. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue of this topical question concerns the creation of a landfill area for hazardous waste in the Megalopolis region, in the old lignite mines. It is, of course, well known, Minister, and to you very well, the Megalopolitan and the wider region have suffered severe consequences from the liberalisation of electricity policy. The decline in PPC's activities led to the loss of hundreds of stable jobs, high unemployment rates, poverty and impoverishment in the wider region as a whole. In the context of this liberalisation we will also have the next steps, which are no more than the sale of the two lignite plants of Megalopolis and their privatisation. However, these important problems are not enough. In recent years, in recent years, the people of the region, the popular layers of the region, have lived with the nightmare and the danger of the Megalopolis being a reception area of all kinds of waste. Already in Paleohun, in the context of the Regional Waste Management Plan, next to the Megalopolis basin, it is planned to become a waste management plant by means of a public-private partnership. At the same time, apart from the waste treatment plant in Paleohun, the National Dangerous Waste Management Plan photographs the creation of a landfill site in Megalopolis, in the old inactive mines. From this point of view, there are a number of risks and issues that concern the inhabitants, from the point of view of the possible ecological disaster, and much more so that the area, where HYTEA is planned, is close to the watercourse of a large part of the Peloponnese. So the questions addressed to the Minister are: If it is in the government's plans to create in the HYTEA Megalopolis. If the Government insists on signing the establishment of the waste management plant by the PPP method in Paleohun. Furthermore, if the Government takes all necessary measures to ensure that the areas that have suffered the lignite exploitation, together with their environmental restoration by PPC, are exploited by central public resources from the State, so that the necessary social infrastructure and the restoration of the environment and the wider area for the people's families can be created. These are the three specific questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karthanasopoulos, with the question you have put to us, I must admit that you are opening three major issues, which could also be three questions, and perhaps we will need more time. The issue of hazardous waste, the issue of waste management in the Peloponnese and the question of rehabilitating the post-climbing period and the mining areas. I shall try, Mr President, to respond, even though there will be a time gap. First of all, I would like to use a little phrase that Mr Karathanasopoulos said in his opening position that 'the inhabitants of the region live with the nightmare that they may collect all the waste or various waste there'. You will allow me to have a completely different concept of waste management. It is a nightmare that so far Greece has lived. In other words, there is no risk management facility and all the hazardous waste is even in the factory yards, which directly affects its working class and health, which directly affects the workers' families living near the factory areas. The non-legal and illegal management of hazardous waste, which has so far been done in Greece, is the big problem and the nightmare. In fact, for the region of the Peloponnese I must tell you that this nightmare has led to its being a champion and a fine, because in the Peloponnese we must have seventeen restored, but not formally active CSR, two active CSRs - landlords, that is,, 2018 - and even five inactive and unstable CSRs. And I must tell you that since December 2014, when the first fines were imposed on the CIDs, only in the Peloponnese Region, Greece has paid 13 million euros in this state of budget. That's the nightmare. This past of waste management, with dumps and uncontrolled mood, is the nightmare. And I would like to quote before I refer to Megalopolis, to tell you that the implementation of a dangerous waste management plan, in addition to the fines from which it will save the country, will also enable workers to work safely, to have industrial production and industrial work, but also the areas of residence close to the factories to live safely and to have progress and prospects. I would like the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece. A party representing and considering its policy to serve the working class, whether there should be industry in Greece, whether the wastes of this industry, independent of ownership, even in the socialist environment, should be treated, made raw materials, so that the workers are also safe and the residents are safe. With regard to Megalopolis, which I must start my response, I would like to tell you that there has been a joint ministerial decision in the area since 2011 to approve environmental conditions for the construction and operation of an industrial waste management area. It was not provided for - first of all, to solve questions - the shipment of waste from other hazardous or non-industrial areas. There was only the management of PPC's asbestos waste, so in the area for the benefit of work, because I know that the position of the Communist Party of Greece is that there should be no asbestos in the workplace and that it should be safely depreciated. However, I would like to tell you that, although the shipment of other waste was not included, the adoption of environmental conditions, there are two applications for suspension and cancellation, which are avenged on 14 and 21 March in the Council of State, so obviously no action is taking until then. Secondly, the construction of this project did not take place and the management of the quantities of asbestos from PPC mentioned in 2011, 2012, 2013, were transferred outside Greece. So - let us say this - the way in which legislation provides for. PPC has not taken any action - not the state, because it was not the state's project - for the construction and operation of the industrial waste management area and I do not know that there is a proposal for a HYTEA in the region. In fact, I can give you the letter I sent to the inhabitants of Megalopoli, on 30 June last year, which I have notified the Mayor and the MP of the region, where I explain all this and I analyse where the planning is, but that the waste of that degradation - because factories have been extinguished - has been transported abroad. I would like to tell you that, in any case, it can occur in other regions of Greece, with industrial activity, such as steelworks which have such waste. We should do units. We would like the support of the Communist Party of Greece to be safe for the workers and the region. If we replicate a model of a nightmare, then, unfortunately, Mr Karathanasopoulos, no region will accept any installation and this will challenge industrial production and industrial work, at least that is not the government's position. On the other hand, allow me to start answering the rest of the waste. In my dentistry, I'm going to say other things. So in the Peloponnese, there is also a wider infrastructure issue. The dumps are the Peloponnese problem. I asked the inhabitants of Megalopolis in the letter I sent them - you will see it and I will give it to you - to work together to close the dumps of the Peloponnese. In order to do this, self-government must take initiatives and be responsible. That is why I am telling you that, although there was an ongoing PPP competition and despite the fact that there was already a draft contract and complete - if you like - a contractor selection process, we have asked the management model to be decided by the local government. We have made new regional planning and, since local government accepted the model of the previous competition - because it had to be the local society, we want responsible local communities - we have negotiated with the candidate contractor so as to reduce the percentage of waste that goes to any units - because there are enough units in the management plan - to reduce the cost for the Peloponnese citizen by about EUR 5 million. In fact, I have to tell you that the proportion of waste, now going to these plants, will be 37%, which gives huge recycling margins of 63%, to municipalities and local communities, so that they not only reduce costs, because they will not pay the management fee, but also reduce transport costs and take raw materials. Because, with a recent law with the Ministry of Interior, we have given the municipalities the opportunity to sell these materials and receive them as revenue in the return services, so they also reduce the cost of management. So, at the initiative of self-government and respecting its own role and right to waste management, we have differentiated, modified and improved this convention - since it was accepted by self-government - and we have a chance today to tell the people of the Peloponnese that they are finally closing the gate and door in the past of landlords. It will not be the retarded waste management district. Even this project - as was announced - by the previous governments, amended and agreed to be transferred from the region to the municipalities, at much lower costs and at less capacity, so that the municipalities can actually recycle. I'm going to continue on my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u6	Minister, it is clear that the Communist Party of Greece does not defend the current situation. That's all he was missing! Here it speaks clearly about the specific responsibilities that exist, the uncontrolled landfills and the question that there is no integrated national waste management plan, which meets the current needs. The knot arrived at the comb, so that the European Union's policy on waste was implemented much faster. From this point of view, the responsibilities of the municipalities, the regions, the oldest governments, and possibly the current situation, of course, has become less responsibilities for the current government, because it has found this landscape. However, there are certain responsibilities, at the same time - you know that much better than I do - all the technical and scientific developments, which may actually be managed to protect the environment, be very cheap and serve the popular layers. However, in these techniques, which do not apply, or in order to be implemented, the profit factor always enters, they are beginning to pose risks: firstly, whether the environmental conditions that exist, secondly, the costs, which are greedy for the people, will be very precise. From this point of view, the factory that forms the treatment of waste by the PPP method is a very accurate method for popular mattresses, despite the efforts you make to limit this cost by EUR 5 million. However, it will eject, it will increase the cost of waste management for the wider region. The second element, of course, as a JRC, we have no objections: industry, protection of health and safety at work, protection of the environment. But now if the urban system, the capitalist state, transfers productive activities to other countries or exploits it on a number of issues, which, of course, are not related to the issue of environmental protection. Why am I saying that? We know the letter you sent to the inhabitants. However, in national waste management planning there is a specific provision, which says that in old lignite sites, and now inactive, sites for landfill of hazardous waste can be created. Such sites in Greece are not too many. It's in the lignite fields in northern Greece and it's Megalopolis. So since it exists as a wording, it does not necessarily deprive it. One of this. Why do we say that? We're not saying there should be any space like this. But it must be done on such terms and conditions that respect the environment. With a spatial planning that prevents and rejects the logic of land use for profit. There are important elements in the area that speak of a huge underground water horizon that fuels the Peloponnese as a whole and the danger of contaminating this watercourse. The third element, which is even more concerned with the inhabitants, Mr. Minister, is the attitude of the National Bank of Greece by letter of 16-1-2018 to transfer the asbestos present in the Drepanus region to Patras from the old "AMIADIT" to Megalopolis. On this issue, there is a decision on the 7-11-2011 of the then decentralised bank that forced the National Bank to transfer the asbestos that existed in ‘AMIANTIT’ abroad. Like PPC did, as you said. Although they tried to suspend this decision, the 4th Section of the Council of State, by decision of 2017, legally took the decision of the decentralised 2011, that the National Bank is obliged to transfer asbestos abroad. So this environment is being shaped. That is exactly why there is that concern. Concern and anxiety are focused. It's a desecrated area there. Secondly, privatisation will potentially be an environmental burden on the region. The third question is the management of waste and hazardous waste in an area with a water-saving horizon rich. All these issues create conditions of concern, Minister, much more so that any standards may not be complied with in the process. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u8	I said from the outset, Mr President, that the debate is very interesting. We could also discuss a much larger process. We should do it, Mr. Karathanasopou, and at other levels. Is it the private sector that poses risks to the environment? We've had experience all these years from our country. The dumps in the Peloponnese were not made by the private sector. They're from government and state. Deposits in the environment of industries have been made by the private sector. I therefore believe that we cannot color and give responsibility only to one area of the economy, to the problems of the environment. These characterize the entire Greek society. I'd say the state must have her first of all. Because that is where the application of environmental control, environmental inspection and environmental rules begins. There is indeed provision in the national plan for the use of lignite mines to manage the wastes of PPC's and asbestos that affect the work of those plants when they are unexploited. I would therefore agree - not for the Megalopolis region, because that is where I have no proposal - to have another rule. In these areas where rehabilitation and environmental protection are needed not to transport waste industrially and dangerously from other regions. Let's see that. It's an interesting proposal. You raised the issue of 'AMIANTIT'. I would like to say and inform you that there is a reply from PPC, which refuses to accept this waste. First of all, because there is no unit. I told you the unit was licensed in 2011, but it wasn't built. And, despite this letter from the National Bank, PPC has refused. There is no need for a new cycle of concern and debate. However, since you are from Achaia, I must tell you that the Mayor of Patras has come to the office with the District Administrator - as self-government, regardless of the political areas - and they have asked us to find a solution for AMIANTIT, because even this old approval that exists for AMIANTIT has not been implemented, so that the hazardous waste is now exposed to 'AMIANTIT'. This is a deadlock which we and the local community must resolve. Because if anyone decides to implement a project of EUR 50 million, which is not there, the asbestos will remain exposed as it has been for so many years in 'AMIANTIT'. We will discuss this again with another opportunity. But PPC has refused because there is no unit. I mean, however, for the inhabitants of the region that they need to know that our negotiation not only reduced the cost of managing urban waste by 5 million, not only did it reduce the amount of locally managed units, but it gave five public investment transhipment stations in the Peloponnese, so that the cost of transport for citizens, who care and care for you - and you care for them - is lower, the municipal fees lower - which the previous governments had not negotiated and claimed, because the PPP could be amended for the benefit of the municipalities and the region - and at the same time we have ensured the installation of a photovoltaic park that will also give power to local communities, which - if you like - some impacts. However, I would like us to agree together that we will all be very strict in all the areas of the democratic arch parties, that there will be no impact on any aquifers. Safe works can be made, even in the centre of towns. This new, innovation and knowledge of the environment, which Europe has, must also claim, because Greece has the scientists. I'm not saying anything is going to happen at city level. It won't happen. I say, however, that there are examples that we need to use at the level of innovation, produce useful materials from waste, feed the circular economy. Because today 83% of the materials that go into our economy go to landfills. In other words, we are losing 83% of the matter that comes into our economy and an economy that needs work and product. But as far as the lignite mines in the Megalopoli region are concerned - because it is the third part of your question - I would like to tell you that PPC has paid all the compensation for this area. It is its property, but it seeks to restore the territory for the benefit of the local society and I must tell you that the shapes of the surfaces and the crops and forests that are there are for the benefit of the local society. In fact, here I have information that in the areas there, in the deposits, and in the mining areas, plantations have already been completed with a hundred and eighty thousand trees and have been given to farmers, at a symbolic price, several thousand acres. For example, five thousand acres have forest species and two thousand acres with agricultural land. Recently, thirteen plots of eight hundred and fifteen acres were completed in Kyparissia. I mean, we have those numbers. Fourteen plots in 2016 at the Megalopolis Lignite Center were given for the cultivation of oats and barley. In other words, there is also cooperation with the primary sector and local communities to make, through the restoration of lignite fields, strengthening the primary sector. In any case - and I want to close down, because I have taken some time, Mr President - I would like to say that the management of waste is not saying that it is an easy matter. It is an issue that needed more political will in the past and perhaps also financial support, I mean public investment. Many times there was the easy way to either dump or say that private sector will take it all. We believe it is the responsibility and responsibility of local government and it is the local resource of waste, and the capacity of self-government to manage waste should be strengthened, to strengthen local communities as well. I think that in this direction, which is in line with the European Strategy for Recycling Society, we can find common stepping up. Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much to the Minister. We proceed to the first with number 1259/6-3-2018, a topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piracy of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Evi Karakostas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the restoration of the Schistos Uncontrolled Waste Disposal Area. Mrs Karakosta, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u10	I should like to welcome the Minister myself and say that we have something similar to the previous issue, but it is quite serious. Indeed, you have raised how these serious waste management issues were created. In my area, which is the area of Schistos, which is owned by Perama and Keracini, but has been referring to many municipalities since 1979, without control, the phosphoglypsus derived from fertiliser plants and plaster plants was planted. There since 1979, for some twenty years this product has been stored, which is a radioactive material. In 2006, PESYDAP, which is the Environmental Association of Municipalities of Athens and Piraeus, was assigned to eighteen municipalities, including the Municipality of Piraeus and the Municipality of Athens. Great municipalities, i.e., beyond all the municipalities of the 2nd Piraeus, etc. During the decade when the study and licensing had effect since 2006, which was mentioned in four phases, the three were executed. It is a surface of twenty - five acres and about eighty - three acres have already been completed. This is a very serious task. I would like to clarify here that this CFD has no organic material - it matters, I will explain it later - it only has phosphorus material. This is dusty when we have winds dispersed into the city and also when his head is a piece that has not been completed, the rain water enters and the watercourse, as we said in the previous project, and it creates problems. Because, therefore, this project directly concerns the health of the general population and the groundwater horizon, and because there are at this stage available sedimentation for covering this project free of charge from the "ATTIMERO" and because the region has already put into its budget EUR 1 million to buy membranes, we want your facility and we ask you: What will you do, so that the Decentralised Administration will issue an Attica completion permit to rehabilitate the project? It should be noted that this application has been submitted since 2015, in the short term, and in line with its suggestions. Also, what is the timetable for the completion of this one hundred and twenty - five acres of Schistos HSH? As there is the previous 7-1-2006 decision of the Region of Attica, granting authorisation for environmental rehabilitation of the CID in Lacquemata of Schistory of the Municipality of Perama of Piraeus, how is the continuity of the administration and the protection of the environment ensured, if part of this site is classified as an inactive quarry, as the decentralised one has now requested, in order to continue this project? It is very serious to face up to its administration and its nipples in order to solve these very serious problems and to have a continuity of public administration. That is what I would like to say in the first place and we continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Caracosta. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Karakota, I should like to thank you for this question, which I too must say is that it brings a very complex issue to the surface, and I hope that we will take a step today to solve it, because it has been afflicting the region for several years. And it is a matter which is linked to what we have been discussing in the previous question, with waste management. In that case, it is a majority of waste business. Of the eleven million tonnes, at least ten are definitely phosphorypsychus, which have been rejected in the area for years. If I am not mistaken, in 1979 this site was rented out by the National Fleet Fund so that it could receive these materials. This rejection took place for twenty years, that is, from 1979 to 1999, and at the same time we had to reject the residues of the fertiliser industry by 2006, most of which were from construction and demolition, as the reports say. I must also agree with you that this restoration was not made by the polluter. This is a first important issue, which we must tell Parliament. It was not by the polluter that the restoration was done, but the association of the municipalities took over the restoration. The association of the municipalities was welcome and it took over the restoration and well does the state and the region and they finance today. We must, however, point out that this management logic where the polluter does not pay and where the polluter only pollutes and leaves and covers it by the state is perhaps one of the elements of the malicious Greek policy that has brought us here to this day, of the great crisis that we have experienced and of the great changes that are taking place, which the entire Greek people are currently paying for. We do not, of course, have a fine in the region of Schistos. Something is that too, because throughout the rest of Greece I have to tell you that we have paid about EUR 50 million for fines for landfills, because Greece was dominated by landfills, and that was, if you like, a portrayal of political choices and delays. The Environmental Association of the Municipalities of Athens and Piraeus, however, took over the restoration with KYA 50910/2013. This environmental restoration licence had four phases and, to avoid them, three have been completed, as you have said. After several delays in this work, I know that a study has been submitted to update and modify the restoration permit and a number of bureaucratic problems have started in 2015 in the resolution of the project. So let me say that for us there is an approved study and we have the recovery plan in four phases. Is there a risk or issue arising from the inconsistent implementation of the study? Let's say it in public, no. We've done special surveillance programs. There is a monitoring in the area and for submersions for biogas and for aquifers and by the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. Because it's good to make this clear to the local community. There is currently no security, public health or anything else. So we believe that at environmental and technical level we can continue from the previous point of view of restoration. Because a question arises whether the whole rehabilitation study has been carried out or not. We therefore consider the restoration to be complete in three quarters, and one quarter is short of it. I know that the application for the association of municipalities was filed for the completion of the fourth phase and it was considered that this area corresponds to the active quarries. You know, however, what we need to say, because we need to take political responsibility, is that an environmental problem is not being archived. Although a service can use this term, we know that with regard to society and the environment we must state that the environmental problem of non-completion of rehabilitation in Shhsto is not being archived. So it has to be completed. And the only way to complete it is not as a non-refunded quarry that has no owner, because it was a place given by the Fleet Fund to fertilisers and resigned since 1999, if I am not mistaken, from this activity. Today we have an obligation to restore it as a public space, whether it is self-government or a state. Since, therefore, there is funding and the body is able to complete the restoration, we believe that the project must return from the archive and be completed on the basis of the restoration of the Common Ministerial Decision 50910. This is a key issue for which we need to work with the Ministry of the Interior and the decentralised, because it needs to be implemented by decentralised. The licensing authority shall be decentralised. We, as the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, will plead and defend and press in that direction. However, the first thing I want to say to you - because I will also say the details in my speech - is that a question of rehabilitation cannot be archiving, that the restoration must be completed and that the circumstance of the available resources and environmental recovery needs, because the project will be dangerous if it is not completed, requires the completion of the project. So it should be removed from the file and continued in the context of the initial restoration study.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u14	I would like to thank the Minister very much for analysing the issue of interest. For us it is very important for our region, but also for the wider area, as I said before. This is where we have to deal with service swings. Perhaps this is more difficult to deal with from the political point of view, which I understand you have, and you have a clear view of that. The collapsing services are described in a paper I will submit on the Minutes, which describes precisely the total correspondence made between the PESYDAP and the decentralised administration. This is an correspondence between 2015 and today, which includes four hundred seventeen days of questions and answers. It's a tragic point to solve the problems, really. We started with press claws that this CFD can produce biogas, which is impossible because it has no organic material, it has inert material. They did a special study by the Polytechnics School to prove that there is no biogas. From there, we reached a decentralised administration document in December 2017 to change his title and by HSY to make him a lattore zone. Watch out, in the latitude zone, they are not obliged, for example, to put membranes. So we'll have a project restoration as a quarry without membranes. So the aqueous horizon will continue to have the corresponding problem. It is not possible for an administration to pay for three continuous phases, to recognize them, to receive temporary, receipt definitive, to pay, and then say that the project was not done properly. These are serious omissions by the administration, which, frankly, we have received, but it is important to deal with. So it is very important to cooperate in this area so that we can finish. I have to tell you that I have come today after so many days to ask you this question, because there has been a complete indignation after my own effort but also by the institutions. We have, in other words, called on the decentralised administration and its institutions, at a meeting of the eighteen municipalities together with the district manager, to say that the problem is so serious for our regions, we express our agony and ask for a solution - all a year and a half ago - that the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kurublis, has intervened on his own initiative, since he is in the region and is also undergoing our pressure as a minister to resolve this problem, and yet we are reaching the point of changing the CID and becoming a quarry. In other words, the agreements, which have been made two years ago with the advice of the agency, to change studies, to promote studies, to pay the PESYDAP, that is, the municipalities, money to follow the advice of the decentralised administration, and all that does not end. In this we are really asking for tension and anxiety to solve the problem. Take note of what we are dealing with beyond the environmental problem. The metro soils are over, because the metro in Piraeus is over. So the municipalities will be charged a huge cost. And the region that recognises the project as very important cannot hold a million in its budget for three and four years, as you can see. So we are asking for a immediate solution within a maximum of two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Caracosta. The question is interesting, Minister. All four hundred letters I have heard, they also have their notebook. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u16	Look, the story is that. We all heard that. We know that at the moment in the region we have a project that the administration has been treating as a CSA substitution from 2006 to 2015. Good or bad it was like this. I said the polluter had to pay. He didn't pay. I said that perhaps the disposal of waste should be given elsewhere, phosphorus, in 1979. That's not all. However, from 2006 to 2015, it is treated as a substitutability of HSY and has been done in 3⁄4. Could have been an old active quarry in the area. However, we believe that the active quarries - and there is a provision of law - can be places where waste is disposed of inert and treated like the ones there. And that's legally covered. In any case, however, we come to place ourselves as political leadership. We therefore say that the work must be completed. If it is taken over by the municipalities and their link shows the will to restore, we must use it. Since the region has 1 million euros, this must also be exploited. In other words, we have the will and the body and the funding. So we are advocating and working with the Ministry of Interior so that the project can continue as a rehabilitation of HSY or as a rehabilitation of a polluted area in any case, because that is the reality. We do not have to stick to it - so to say - in its character as an active quarry. Because rehabilitation and as an active quarry remains important. We have responsibility - and the Minister is here - and the quarry is here. We have no problem saying that whatever it is, it must be restored. It must not remain because and possibly - if you like - the transport of jet particles we have, but the possible flooding situation of the remaining parts of the restoration is jeopardised. So we say that regardless of what the situation is and without sticking to possible - if you like - bureaucratic or formal serotypes, we must stop this tide. We agree that the project should be completed as a restoration of HSY based on KSY 50910, based on the initial plan for the fourth hive, the fourth stage, with regional funding and the link between the municipalities responsible for receiving possible residues that are inactive and available for this situation. And that will be judged by the study and the association of the municipalities. We will intervene in this case in order to continue the work and take action after your question with the Ministry of the Interior and the decentralised for a better environmental and immediate solution to the problem. Because, and this is one of the issues that has been left open to us. It has to be closed. It's very close to the capital, it's a very important place. We need him and we need to give good examples to local society. The restoration of this area and an environmental park in this area and the planting that will be done is proof in society that things can be done anyway. And that is what we will insist on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next timely question, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis. It is the third under number 1184/28-2-2018, the first question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Sorry of saturated power grid of the Peloponnese”. Mr Maniotis, you have the floor for your prototype and I hope that this matter will be resolved too, because I have been listening to it for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President, and I hope the Minister will tell us today that he can remove the saturation of the Peloponnese. Minister, in 2014 we took a legislative initiative, which gives a huge boost to modern, digital agriculture, modern agriculture, accurate agriculture on the basis of which at least 60% of the cost of cultivation of agricultural products can be reduced by the use of new technologies. In 2014, what did we do? For the first time, the first government at European level, as a matter of priority and exceptionally the country's local land improvements agencies, the four hundred TWGs, to which 3,000 Greek farmers are integrated, can put photovoltaic units to reduce the cost of electricity by 60%. At the same time I have to tell you that we were doing a study in Argolida in my county. The average farmer of Argolida only pays about 6,000 euros each year to water his fields. In Argolida, we have more than ten local land improvements agencies, with more than three thousand farmers joining. We are talking about an intervention which, throughout Greece, to the three hundred TWGs, and especially to Argolida, can drastically reduce the costs of cultivation and give farmers a great breath. Unfortunately, the Government, Minister, does not allow it because it says the Peloponnese network is saturated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u19	The government?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u20	The government says so. So, listen, now, why are you mistaken? In 2012, then, the Energy Regulatory Authority decided that the network of the Peloponnese is saturated and that is why? Because in 2012 the units operated and the units licensed had 1,900 MW. Hold that number, 1,900 MW. So at 1,900 MW, we have a wall. Today, Minister, do you know how much they are working, because because of the crisis that SYRIZA has made it worse, many people have not worked and many investments have not been made? Today, 1,900 MW, which was the saturated, operates 1,200 MW and offers photovoltaic connections other than 200 MW. In total, therefore, today we are talking about what works and what is expected to work is 1,400 MW. Minister, from 1,900 MW, which is the maximum of 1,400 MW that operate and are expected to work, are abundant for the farmers of the Peloponnese and Argolida 500 MW and I stress it. So it can and must now be the government's responsibility to call the Energy Regulatory Authority, the responsible bodies, and to remove the saturated one. And, you know, why do you have another obligation to lift it? Because in the ten-year programme of the IPTO - I'm supposed to say, I do not know to what extent your Government will implement it - you are committed to building a new line from Megalopolis to Antirio, which should be ready for this line in the second half of 2018 and which will fit another 400 MW. To sum up, Minister, to sum up: Today, in 2018, we are talking about, the government has the possibility of giving farmers licences of Argolida and Peloponnese in total to install as many units of photovoltaic and wind farms as they want, because, quite simply, today we have room for another 500 MW and by the end of the year we will have room for another 400 MW and therefore, in total, 900 MW. However, as these things are to be done, they want decisions of the Government and, at the same time, want support to finance these actions, they would be useful in this decision, which I hope the Minister will receive, to consult with the Minister for Rural Development, in order to incorporate these initiatives from local improvements agencies and individual farmers or groups of farmers into the rural development programme and, I stress this - in the Junker package, in which such actions can be well integrated, because they have financing from the private sector, farmers, a loan from banks that can be obtained and financed from the public sector, from the new NSRF. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u21	Minister, with great interest we will hear your answer to your prototype. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u22	I have no reservation that the previous governments were amazing in design! Unique, that will be a lesson for many decades! Mr. Maniotis told us that he put the set-off. He put the setback on him. He told us he licensed the Peloponnese RES. Of course, thousands of RES in the Peloponnese have been licensed. PPC's natural gas station was founded in Megalopoli. That's a huge investment! But there was no network. In 2012 there was no network! I repeat, 2012! So when PPC's gas plant operates in 2015, we have it in non-commercial use, test use still. He has no place to give the power. Amazing design? Are you convinced? The authorisations of the RES were left, the TWGs could not do anything at all and the plans of IPTO - these are what we received, your plans were received - they said that for 2020 and 2022 and we did them 2019 and 2021 to restore the interconnection of the Peloponnese. So I wonder how you're coming here and you're demagogling about the things you're planning, which we're trying to fix with a thousand lives and on the basis of the acceleration that has been made by the IPTO, we promise that the first interconnection will connect Megalopolis to Western Greece 400 KW, which will allow for the full absorption of PPC's natural gas - what you just said is to close Megalopolis, to put some RES, these things are not done and the second will connect it in 2021 to Corinth. These two will create the conditions, firstly, for the Megalopolis unit to work fully on the basis of its capabilities and begin to perform for PPC, and secondly, for PPC to incorporate all the authorisations of RES that we have given plus the additional large part that we estimate will be created with RES from the energy communities for which our law is cut and sewn into TWG measures. In 2019, then. Patience a year. We need to pay your own plans for many years. Our own people will try them in the future, but I assure you: licences without conditions, so that these permits can make sense, we do not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u23	My interest remains, Mr. Maniatis, to hear you now. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u24	I am very pleased to have a Minister who has the ability to make reasonable and timely leaps, but chaotic! Mr President, listen to the answer to the very smiling answer that the Minister has tried to give me. Minister, because you are three years in government, can you tell us exactly what you have done to implement the high-voltage line linking Megalopolis to Antirio and Megalopolis with Corinth, where these two lines will contribute 1,000 MW? Can you also tell us exactly what you have done to answer the document of the Energy Regulatory Authority, yours? You know here, unfortunately, your mirror reveals you. A few weeks ago, you answered the same question. And the Energy Regulatory Authority, yours, by signature, tells me in the document that I have sent three letters to the electricity operators that you supervise and make huge, important comments on unjustified delays in the implementation of the high-voltage lines. I shall submit the document of your own Energy Regulatory Authority which says that with your responsibility - and here is the responsibility of the political leadership - three years has not happened at all. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I would like to say again, Mr President, that it can be said that the current government is moving on the strong foundations left by the previous government, but what has no right to do is to bind the future of the Greek farmers and especially the farmers in the Peloponnese, because virtually three years that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has done nothing at all. And I challenge the Minister to tell me what steps his government has taken over these three years, so that today the saturated man has been removed? And since the Minister also mentioned the Megalopolitan unit, I would like to say to him that the Megalopolitan unit is 800 MW, it has been operating at 500 MW since 2015. For three years now, you know that you should have speeded up the most advanced line that was "Megalopolis-Antirio" and you have done nothing. That is why you are not telling me anything about what has happened for three years. It should have been implemented, as should the Megapolis-Korinthos line. And to give you an example to see how much more you need to look at the bodies you're supervising? Your IPTO predicted the implementation of the high-voltage line "Megalopolis-Antirio" to end it in 2018, this year. You know what I'm told by inside information? That he's gonna take it six and eight months. And that is one of the issues for which there is an internal conflict between the Energy Regulatory Authority and IPTO. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore ask the Minister to see this himself, because I believe that a few things - not a few - are often taken away from the Minister. And because your own bodies give you directions as to how to move, I think you can move immediately to the lifting of the saturated Peloponnese network and immediately give orders to the supervising body, IPTO, to implement the two ultra-high-voltage lines as soon as possible in order to liberate the network of the Peloponnese. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u26	I am pleased that Mr. Maniotis recognised the deadlock of their planning, because since 2012 it has been saturated. By 2015, they were emptied of what was there and did not exist, without being able to implement it. I'm glad you recognize that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u27	Not always. Saturated up until 2012 that stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u28	Let's go to the famous line. You didn't tell us when it was planned to be completed and it was delayed. Was it designed to complete the line in 2015 and was it delayed? At the end of 2018 it was to be completed. And not only was it to be completed at the end of 2018 - and it will be completed, I repeat, I said it, at the beginning of 2019, but we also inherited dozens of problems in relation to this line. I remember one and the other: the line concerned concessions from the University of Patras and other technical problems of very complex nature, which were even needed to solve legislation. So the idea of delay does not exist. RAE's doing well and pressing on to IPTO. However, I must repeat that the IPTO is at a time when the projects, the connections, are being speeded up. And I repeat: firstly, this month the interconnection of the Cyclades will be completed and the association of the Cyclades will be inaugurated. Secondly, in a year from today the theme of the Peloponnese will be fully operational. And thirdly, with regard to the great work of interconnecting Crete - Peloponnese, his promotion is imminent in the next few months. So we are at another stage, both in connection with the interconnection projects and the IPTO infrastructure projects, as the company itself now thinks is at a very different pace, how it operates, in relation to what was in the past and produced all these problems. I repeat for the Peloponnese farmers, as for all the Peloponnese farmers. The regional conference in the Peloponnese is very recent. I think that that is where all the issues have been raised concerning major infrastructure projects and the energy sector, natural gas and much more, which we will be able to discuss afterwards. We are a step before the end of the great energy upgrade of the Peloponnese and the resolution of problems accumulated for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much to the Minister for his reply. Next is the second with number 1262-6-3-2018.Philette of the New Democracy MP Florina Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Stop running of the AIA Amynteios - Philotas at the Prefecture of Florinas”. Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before I read the question, I tell you that for us it is a matter of continuing the operation of the Amyntian Steam - Philotas in Florins at any cost and in any way. For three years it was known to your Government and your Ministry that Amyntiou - Philotas was operating with a specific wall in the number of operating hours, which expired at the end of 2018 with early 2019. While you were aware of this restriction, you have done nothing for three years to find an alternative for the operation of the district of Amyntaio's district heating, on the other hand, an extension of this station's operation through the modernization of engineering and, on the other hand, its environmental upgrading, in order to operate for another fifteen to twenty years. Now we are facing a complete deadlock which only negative consequences arise for the region and not just for the region. They risk losing about three thousand jobs, with all the perimeter support positions, which are vital to the region. Minister, you take the full responsibility of stopping the station, because of the indifference or indifference, which only ruins the region. I ask you: Do you have a solution to extend the life of the Amyntai - Friends and what actions are you going to take to achieve this? Secondly, what solution do you have for the district's district's district's district's district's remote heating in the event of the definitive closure of the Amyntai - Philotas - as you know, there has been no extension - for the three years of the transitional period as the definitive solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much Mr Antoniadis. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with alpha: Your government had planned when PPC's units would be withdrawn. And when we received, I found that the unit, to which you refer, had withdrew, end of operation at the end of 2018. This is what you had chosen well or badly. I don't even care. So, having put you in the design and approved by the European Commission that Amyntheus is leaving at the end of 2018, you come and tell us: 'What have you done for three years?' As to what? You've planned to withdraw the unit. I'm coming to what we're doing now. Three things we do: First, we made a request to extend the operation from seven and a half thousand hours to thirty-two thousand hours. We made the request twice. The committee does not approve. That's the one. We have opened a dialogue cycle in order to find a solution to this issue. There goes one thing. The second point is that since there was the decision of the European Court of Justice and after the decision was taken and we negotiated the deinvestment of 40% of PPC's lignite plants - and finally it was decided that the units given by PPC should be Florina and Megalopoli -, Amyntheus, after serious pressure from our own, remained outside the disinvestment plan, but the agreement with the Commission says that "you can do whatever you want Amyntheus". This means that Ammonium can be upgraded and take another fifteen years of operation and not counted in the 40% of lignite disinvestment package. That's what we negotiated. Therefore, we have reopened the chapter 'Symptoms' where it was closed. Let's go to the third and final topic. After we have reopened the issue of Amyntium, because we want to maintain, we want investment, we want jobs to be maintained, and we have been unable to count on 60%, which remains in PPC, we are going through procedures completely institutionally on what is the best way of choosing and exploring the investment in Amantinos and its extension for fifteen years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As you know, three business proposals have been made to the Government and PPC, according to which various ways are proposed, with which Amphene may take this extension of life, through the investment. PPC examines them all. It will all be done institutionally. The government is looking at them all and we will be making decisions soon, all converging in the initial success we have had. This concerns our effort, namely, not to withdraw Amyntheus at the end of 2018, as your government had chosen, and to find an investment way to extend his life for fifteen years, there will be a great investment in environmental upgrading, which is around 100 to 120 million and to find a solution to this issue, which of course also covers district heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Antoniadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you quite rightly said that it was a political choice from the previous government. This political choice was therefore judged, condemned and voted against. This government came to the Opposition and you came with a promise that it will continue to work. So, the one who has to apologize is you about what you've been doing for three years. Is that right? So don't ask me to apologize for what the previous government has proposed. So I come here and say very briefly that there is a small alalum there. First of all, there is the Achlad in which a private person operates. It has major environmental problems. And I tell you that the area will face environmental problems both from the private and from PPC. There are no frozen funds. Tomorrow the private is bankrupt, and he's gone, PPC that has no money, bankrupt, and he's gone. Where will this money come from? From the state corvana? Shouldn't they be committed under the supervision of the state, to make the restoration, have the money there? Therefore, problems in the Axle in general with relocation and the environment. There are essentially two settlements: Anargiroi, Valtonera. These two villages are settlements that have under five hundred inhabitants. I still remember yesterday, in August 2016, when we met your predecessor, Mr. Skourletis, and said that in three months' time the Presidential Decree will be signed. And we are now March 2018 and it has not yet been signed, and so has landslide and all that. There are serious problems that need to be looked at for both the Anargirs and the Valtonera. I also come to the issue of Melite and Vivia, which has been pending for so many years. It's not today. He doesn't know what's going to happen. We are hearing about privatisation, which means that the marble again will be paid for by local bodies. What do we say? What you and each government need to include, because this wealth is irreplaceable and it takes millions of years to create again - and I am talking about lignite - is this: first, in terms of employment, all the local workers are employed and, second, we want some compensatory measures, such as free electricity. Because PPC pays 750m euros to the islands - Mykonos, Rhodes, Crete, Corfu - and our children go and work there or Germany and you do not put 50m euros to 750m euros to have at least a free electricity supply, with an economic streak, less than 30m. Give businesses and farmers 50% reduction. I leave that, too. We ask, Minister, that you include in your energy design, in the energy mix, lignite corresponds to 30%, so that the Ammonium can join in, as you know well. We also call for total production to be more than 17 quadrubares (TWh) - as they are called - to be sure that the Ammonium will join. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, however, I have heard you say that there is a political will from your government to continue to operate. But time passes. If you do not get the extension now in October, there is no alternative for district heating and we will be in front of a dead end. I mean, there are problems. I conclude by saying that we have discussed the region on several occasions sincerely, but there is no specific vision, a plan. But Mr. Skourletis said, but Mr. Lafazanis said more, and you say more. Follow a policy of "stick me and cry" or "seeing and doing" and the consequences of paying for an area that is not due to anything. The main thing I'm telling you is dialogue. Dialogue with whom you're doing, Minister? With the heavenly gods? Have you had a dialogue with the local community? Did you come in once? I've asked you 50 times. You don't have to commit yourself. Come to the district once with the mayors, with the MPs, with the vice-president, with some associations, with the representatives of the communities and open up a dialogue so that you know what's asking for an area, tell us what you're thinking and somewhere I think we'll agree in the middle. So what I ask you to do is not so much the specific solutions that need to be found. Put the dialogue into your vocabulary to finally find solutions. It's been three years. New Democracy will be coming in in the autumn, and it's certain she'll pay the broken marble. That's where you're taking it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u35	With all due respect, Minister, give me a minute. Until we settle the dialogues with the heavenly God and what happens in September, let me make a announcement. Our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, seventeen students and students and seven educational escorts from the Pierian Association of Parents and Friends of the Media. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-eight students and students and six teachers - their attendants from the 3rd High School of Megaron. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, after your conversation with the way over, you have the floor to answer Mr Antoniadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u36	In his infancy, Mr Antoniadis raised so many issues that I wonder what to answer, because he put them in terms of titles. But I'll start with my traveling habits. I've been visiting your area for the past year almost every month. I can't think of a month that I haven't come to Kozani, or Ptolemais, or Kastoria and so on, certainly more often than Chania that is my place of origin. So, with regard to the idea that we are not having a dialogue, I would tell you that we are having an amazing dialogue. First of all, I would remind you that we took the decision on Wednesday with the Commission on disinvestment and the next Wednesday we were at the Regional Council to discuss the new reality with the whole region and so on. So I wonder why you suggested that there is no dialogue, that it is not permanent, etc. Secondly, with regard to the issues you raised for the region, the cheap electricity has come out. It was our initiative to have a horizontal discount for all households in western Macedonia. This is the first time that this has happened. It is a big decision that will be financed by the public budget. And it was a great success for both the region, which was a constant demand and our side, which found a way of being very effective to give a horizontal discount to the area that has actually suffered the heavy environmental burden all these decades that it produces on behalf of almost all of the country. Third. Specific topics, such as the mine of Vivia, such as the problems of Achlada and so on, are not that they have not been discussed, have not focused on what the problems of each one of them are, but the answer to the solution to the issue of Vivia is 'common psalm of each other'. As far as the issue of Vivia is concerned, the law comes on what will go on in the disinvestment package from PPC. Finally March the bill will come, so there you will see what will happen to the Vivian mine. I do not think we can recognise that there has been a very great dialogue in the region for this transitional period in which PPC is located, that settlement problems have been solved which were also chronological, and we have solved them in a way that is very fast and very effective and that the constant demands of the West Macedonia Region, such as the cheapest current and others, have already been met.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the fourth with number 1209/1-3-2018, a topical question from the MP Argolidis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Implementing a natural gas network in the Peloponnese". Here, Mr Maniotis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u38	Minister, I will tell you a little story about the Peloponnese Region and Argolida Prefecture. You remembered the Peloponnese and Argolida just a few days ago to do the development conference in Tripoli, where you said various interesting things, but they hide a deep hypocrisy. And I'm explaining. Bad people who ruled in 2010 to the end of 2014 made a big decision. To implement a high-pressure gas pipeline from Corinth to Megalopolis total cost of EUR 130 million in order to operate a gas plant in Megalopolis, 800 MW, so that the Peloponnese gives stability to the electricity system. These, too, were the 'bads' who ruled before you, they had made a decision. However, since 2011 these ‘bads’ have provided for and said in Article 179 of Law 4001, for the completion of the Peloponnese gas pipeline from Corinth to Megalopolis: ‘As soon as the pipeline is completed, the State is required to establish a gas supply company of Peloponnese to give natural gas to Corinth, Argos, Nafplio, Tripoli, Kalamata and Sparta. What's going on now? In 2015, the pipeline ended, Mr President. He started powering natural gas pilots to the Megalopolis plant. Therefore, in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, for three years Mr. Tsipras and his Government were sleeping. They have not dealt with the network of natural gas in the Peloponnese that they should have created since 2015. And now comes the cry and hypocrisy. A few days ago at the Tripolis conference, Mr. Tsipras announced natural gas networks for the Peloponnese. His obligation for three years now that he has completely ignored it is transforming it into a promise for the future. Here's the huge hypocrisy. Does that make sense to what we're talking about? It is topical, Mr President, Minister, for the economy of the Peloponnese and especially for Argolida. I'll give you three numbers for the study we've done for Argolida. The network of Argolida, Argos - Nafplio will serve seven thousand central heatings, single houses and apartments, a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, hotels, restaurants, packages, crafts and a hundred fifty public buildings, the two hospitals of the county, all schools and so on. We'll have a 40% reduction in electricity costs due to natural gas. How much is this? On the basis of our data, the gas network in Argolida can now be implemented - and that is what we are asking, Minister, to start implementing within 2018 - with just 4.5 million public expenditure. Where will this money come from? This money can be found as it was found for the region of Western Greece, correctly - correctly, I stress - from the Public Investment Programme. I note: These networks were included as a proposal in the Juncker package, in the proposal that the 'bad' previous government had sent to the Juncker package with a total budget for all energy 2,5 billion. Unfortunately, however, the "soft" government, led by Mr. Varoufakis in the first half of 2015, withdrew the whole proposal for the Yunker package - both energy and agriculture and the others - and for at least two and a half years Greece was sleeping in the Yunker package. So I come, Minister, and ask you directly what Mr Tsipras has announced at the Peloponnese Development Conference in Tripoli as his commitment, which will begin to take place after a number of years. Because it is a moral and political obligation for Mr. Tsipras personally to implement this commitment directly, as it has been delayed three years, I would ask you to help you personally in order to begin the implementation of the natural gas networks in Argolida and in all the prefectures of the Peloponnese Region, because this will give an important impetus to the local economy as well as to households that are close to the increased oil prices. I stress that there will be a reduction in the operating costs of businesses and household living by 40%. This is the largest investment that can be made, which can now be done. I stress that the time that the previous 'bads' ruled by this gas pipeline had before him all the powers of SYRIZA and Corinthia and Argolida and Arcadia. On all municipal councils, on all regional councils the local forces of SYRIZA were across the street. But let's forget the sins. Let's see what we're going to do from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Let's move on, and you'll tell secondary school the rest. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u40	Mr Maniotis is amazing, because what he had not even thought about the PASOK now becomes a reality and he must somehow write it down. He said the amazing argument that the gas in the Peloponnese was designed. Neither in the Peloponnese was there natural gas - the pipeline was built to take gas to Megalopolis, in the unit - nor in western Macedonia passed by TAP there was no plan to give gas to the cities of western Macedonia. All that was planned - because I am a fair man - was the TAP part in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Good. So we come - without any imaginary plans you've never had, Juncker and all this - when the gas in Greece was identified with Athens, Thessaloniki and the part I told you, eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and we do three things: First thing, we are renegotiating the TAP and opening two exits to western Macedonia, which means that now over the entire axis of northern Greece they will get eighteen cities access to natural gas. Act one. That's it. There was a renegotiation of the TAP, the two exit points became four and so on in western Macedonia the plans for the gas to go to many cities. The second act of what we did the other day in the Peloponnese for six cities. Natural gas networks will be built in Corinth, Argos, Nafplio, Tripoli, Kalamata and Sparta. So the landscape gas in twenty, thirty Greek cities is new, is now planned. Now let's go to who's gonna do it and how. As far as this gas supply company of the Peloponnese you thought and said that the law provided that a gas company would once be made, I have to say that we founded the RAD of the rest of Greece - we! - to implement the projects outside Athens and Thessaloniki of the development of natural gas, all the projects, and this one section that you said both sections added late and which now give gas to too many cities. The third and contentious issue is the financing of these projects. As you are well aware, if there were any suspicion of all the projects that have been mentioned in the past, they would have captured the extension of natural gas. Do you know any regional projects that have captured this dimension? Now they are being captured, because the funding must go through the revision of regional projects, and we are in constant contact with the regions that will benefit from the new reality and have excellent relations, in order to implement the projects. Who's funding? The European Investment Bank. We signed the agreement on the lending of the first East Macedonia - Thrace section, followed by financial protocols for both western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. I think you should finally agree that some things are done, they are made together, designed and effective, and you must leave the hypocrisy and incompetence. Because it's okay to say it in the first semester. But now, three years later, it sounds boring.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u42	Minister, because you are very sympathetic to me, I really feel sorry for you because you are obliged to justify things unjustified. First of all, I was very pleased to acknowledge that TAP, which you have fought for, is a useful project and I am very pleased that you also recognise that some steps have been taken. But you know what you're forgetting and I guess you should check it out with your advisers? You forget that in 2011 in article 179 of Law 4001 we had anticipated two gas companies: and the Peloponnese supply company and, unfortunately, the West Macedonia Gas Company. And it was your obligation to have made these two companies since 2015 and you have done nothing. And move on now and you're committed to other things. I am very pleased that you said that there is no regional planning. Mr. Minister, do you know that the regional planning plans delivered to you in 2015 to absolute maturity have you let them sleep and only the Regional Spatial Planning of Crete have you approved? I ask you, have you approved three years' time in the Peloponnese Region? Have you approved the Regional Planning Area of the Region of Western Macedonia, which is ready three years? Oh, no. Therefore, you will not find infrastructure, since you do not go ahead with the approval of regional planning plans. I have to tell you something else. You told us about the TEN, which will build the networks. Obviously. What's the TED? A piece of DEPA has been separated. As DEPA would, apparently after changing legislation, the TEN is doing so. My question, however, is another one and you did not answer me, Minister. Obviously, the networks need to be made. Obviously, even with a delay this three-year delayed commitment of the Prime Minister must go ahead and act. My question is another. This obligation to the people of the Peloponnese and the inhabitants of Argolida will you start implementing it from 2018, yes or no? Why, otherwise, along with the three years that have passed, should the inhabitants of the Peloponnese and Argolida wait another two - three years to take advantage of gas, which was the government's obligation to have granted it to them since 2015. And because you said about the Juncker package, see your papers, Minister. As a government you withdrew our proposals for the Juncker package at the time of negotiation with the raised red collars, the Baroufaki negotiation, and you made two and a half years to resubmit it. I don't give you responsibilities. It's the Prime Minister's responsibility. However, when other countries, especially the gas networks, have gone ahead and are well-intentioned, ask at least your services to help you even now, together with the local communities, with the Peloponnese Region, the West Macedonia Region and the other funding they have, quickly move on, these networks that are deeply needed by the local economy, as well as by the household, in Argolida and the Peloponnese. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u44	To start with the famous Juncker project of the previous government because I was Minister of Economy, next to Mr Varoufakis at the time, so I have a full picture of what the Juncker plan you submitted was. It was a list of projects -400 billion, I don't remember how much - of nonexistent and zero maturation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u45	It was 25 billion, not 400 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u46	Three years later, Greece remains one of the first countries in Europe - we have submitted it on several occasions - to absorb Yunker resources. What does that mean? It means that the present government has exploited the Juncker project by matured projects that were successively integrated into it. Repeat, data for 2016 and 2017 have been filed on several occasions in the House. So this demagogue about Junker and "prepared projects, which, for some reason, were not made because of Varoufakis and so on" is an unrealistic picture, because the Juncker project, with its beginning, set the terms of projects that have a high degree of maturity. Everything else was unobjective. On the second point, on regional plans, you are right that there has been a delay in several of these. We have faced a problem, however, which is real and we have said so before. The S.T.E. It has annulled specific spatial planning, which, as they were due, had to be taken into account in regional plans. Therefore, the adaptation of regional plans, while fully maintaining the spirit and substance of regional projects, - as had been done by the regions, incorporating pieces of the specific spatial planning projects, now not as specific spatial planning projects that have been cancelled by the EU, but as rules integrated into regional projects - has created a large bureaucratic process, which is finally being completed. Our commitment is that within the next six months everything will have gone to the extent to which it can be made public. In conclusion, I would like to say that in any case it appears that there is a strong will from all of us now - not to extend the confrontation - that natural gas projects must go ahead, that it is of great importance for our cities and that they will definitely contribute to both energy upgrading and energy efficiency and the region's competitiveness. I therefore think that the main concern remains. The TEN is committed to launching projects not in 2018, but in 2019 and 2020 in the Peloponnese. Our common concern is to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. I'm going to announce a request for a absence permit from a colleague. ‘Mr President, I hereby request a short-day absence permit abroad for the period 9 March to 19 March 2018 pursuant to Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure’. It is Mr Ioannis Aivatidis from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u48	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I shall now read the questions that will not be discussed. The second question under number 1261-6-3-2018 of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios PKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakak The first question with number 1266/6-3-2018, topical question by the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Finance of water networks in Heraklion" will not be discussed due to a blockade, in particular due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis. The third question under number 1230/5-3-2018, topical question by MP II, the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans again, in a Swiss franc", will not be debated as a result of an impediment, namely due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr.Ioannis Drasakis. The first question under number 1983/11-12-2017 of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "With what process did the "KOSMOS" be awarded to the KOSMOs" of caring for the refugees of the Hosting Centre in BIPE Drama?" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment due to a planned Council of Ministers in Brussels by the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. The second question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, and application for the filing of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: “An unjustified delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office,” will not be discussed as a result of an impediment, due to a planned Council of Ministers in Brussels by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-09-S1-commons.u49	With the agreement of the House at 11.37 the sitting for the next Monday, March 12, 2018, at 17.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 6/26-10-2017, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
