ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-5-2018, the minutes of its RIG sessions, Wednesday 9 May 2018 (morning) concerning the vote in the whole draft law: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions".]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law: 'Recommendation of a refresher body of the city of Athens'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 May 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we may be able to finish this evening. This will of course depend on how many colleagues will be registered. I have consulted the Minister and if the number of Members present is small, the sitting will be over tonight. If I don't see it - we have many records, we'll go tomorrow for a couple of hours. Therefore, we unanimously agree with that reasoning. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Migration Policy, and the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity have today tabled a draft law: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the profitable employment of the Dependent Members of the Diplomatic Missions or Consular Authorities’. Also, the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Tourism today tabled a draft law: "Undoing the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on maritime transport". The Minister of Education, Research and Religion, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sports, Environment and Energy and Finance, the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, submitted today a draft law: ‘Presenting the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic concerning the establishment of a Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki as Category 2 Center under the auspices of UNESCO.’ They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Mr. Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u3	Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u4	Because there is a ministerial amendment and because you said that there would be an overall position in principle, on the articles and amendments, we should, in order to put ourselves in place, come the Minister responsible, Mrs Ahtsoglou. I do not understand, since it is late here too, why it has not tabled its amendment beforehand. Three hours ago, she was finishing her own bill. I don't understand that. But in order at least to be able to put our party in a position with our parliamentary representative, the Minister must come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u5	Firstly, the amendment has been posted. So you know her contents. Secondly, as far as I am aware of this, the Deputy Minister, Mr Helios, will come at 19.00 to support it. There is therefore no question. If the amendment had not been distributed, all right. In any case, the rapporteurs can keep one or two minutes at the end to place themselves on the amendment separately. Don't waste time to get this over with. If you wish, as long as I have already given the floor to Mr. Helios, please place yourself during your speech and do not take the floor again. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be electronically written in the known way. As soon as Mr. Bourras is done, the electronic records will be closed. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like two minutes to make a reference to the deceased former Minister for Spatial Planning and the Environment, Mr Liaska, who left life on Monday, May 7th. Kostas Liaskas was Minister of Spatial Planning and Environment and for many years President of the Technical Chamber of Greece. He was the longest-lived president of the TEI. He appeared and served for a total of twenty-four years in the administration of the Chamber, while he served for twelve years in the position of the President. At the same time, Kostas Liaskas, bringing together the wider recognition and acceptance of his personality and the institutional role as President of the TEI, served as the Minister for the Environment in 1989-1990. Liaskas left important work as a engineer and as a trade unionist and as a politician. On behalf of all my colleagues, I express my warmest condolences to his family. His memory is eternity!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u7	Mr. Deiaras, I hadn't put time on you. The Bureau, on behalf of all Parliament's wings, endorses what you have said. Now you can start your introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the establishment of a replayer of the city of Athens. It is a common finding that Athens is ageing and many areas of the centre are devastated and declining. The bad urban planning of the previous decades, combined with the ageing of buildings and other factors, created suffocating conditions in the center of Athens. It is, I think, common belief that bold measures are needed to make these areas unreliable and to take the centre of the quality and functionality that a city deserves with the history of Athens deserves. It is necessary to renew and regenerate Athens to upgrade the quality of life of its residents and visitors. But what are the interventions they need today in Athens? Does it require an increase in the greenery? The capital of the country has the lowest percentage of greenhouses in all European capitals per inhabitant. The percentage per inhabitant is around one square metre and the most elastic calculations, i.e. if we count the street trees, it reaches two square meters. The normal green rate in many European capitals is nine to ten square metres per inhabitant. This means that in order for Athens to acquire a normality as far as green is concerned, it should be tripled or quadruple the green surface that corresponds to each of its inhabitants. We need an increase in public spaces. The lack of schools, children's playgrounds, sports venues, etc. is well known. Do we need to give space to the pedestrian and the biker? Isn't there a network of pedestrians missing for comfortable and safe movements of pedestrians? Do we not need the so-called 'green' routes that combine walking and green? Do we not need a network of bicycle roads for mild, economical, environmentally friendly? We need all of this and many other things, such as the creation of green spaces and free communal areas, by demolition of old buildings that are not statically static in accordance with the regulations and there are no other reasons for keeping them, the restoration of the static resistance of the old buildings, which will be judged not to be demolished and, of course, the improvement of their energy behaviour. Also needed aesthetic upgrade in city neighborhoods with low-cost interventions, such as the increase of green and visual artists from the municipal arts centers and much more. The renovation of worthwhile roads, squares and points of historical and cultural reference, together with the implementation plan for archaeological sites, needs to be developed. These projects require the creative activation of the human resources in unemployment or underemployment, particularly young engineers and technicians, as well as the workforce. For an Athens renovation program with a long breathtaking and clear timetable, we should have a general plan with a horizon of decades that specialises in time and spatial terms. As I explained to the committees, to date the lack of coordination at three levels, at government, regions and municipalities level, was - and it continues to be - the biggest problem and the main reason why the refurbishments planned in previous years did not go ahead. Different studies have in their drawers services in Attica regions, others in the Municipality of Athens and others in the Ministry of the Environment. The lack of coordination at these three levels is what has not enabled the studies already carried out to be carried out. We have examples that exist in drawers, such as the study to upgrade and unify the spaces of the Polytechnic and Museum, the refurbishment of the sites around the railway stations, such as Larissa Station and the Peloponnese Station, the renovation of the University Street and a number of other studies of urban interventions. On the other hand, we should stress the significant improvement that has been achieved by cities in the region. In addition, positive examples are found in several regional municipalities in Attica. Athens therefore needs a broad plan with long-term objectives. It takes a project that will be fundamental to the role of self-government in this, grade 1 and grade 2 and the participation of the relevant Ministries of Culture, the Environment and Infrastructure and Transport. To date we have only been used to fragmentary interventions, without a general plan and vision. The Athens Regulatory Plan, the ORSA, handed over the Attica Regulatory Plan. From that point on, however, he stayed on paper and the ORSA himself was abolished. With the draft law: "Recommendation of a Refreshment Body of the City of Athens" of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Government takes an important first step in order to allow rapid implementation of refreshments in the center of Athens. The aim is to improve the quality of life in regeneration areas, to stimulate social cohesion and economic development. The draft law is under existing legislation and under the Constitution, as regards the protection of property. The aim is to coordinate the three levels of administration, government, regional and municipality of Athens, so that intervention can be made in the centre of the city that are mature and many of them have studies. The priorities set are the renewal of two areas of the centre, which are generally required of interventions, i.e. refugees on Alexandra Avenue and the Athens commercial triangle. A special purpose company in the form of the public limited liability company in which the Municipality of Athens, the Region of Attica and the relevant Ministries are involved is hereby established for the renewal of these areas. This body - I repeat - aims to coordinate and not to'small', as has been said by the Opposition, in order to quickly make the necessary interventions and to make use of the existing studies which have already been mentioned by possible modifications and updates. The board of directors will include the co-authorities, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and will also involve representatives of the Municipality of Athens and the Region of Attica, as well as the commander of the Hospital of Agios Savvas for a specific purpose. It will also have an eight-member advisory technical board. The company is expected to activate other bodies, public and private, as well as civil society actors, which have an important role to play in the design and implementation of refurbishments. The company called “ANAPPLICATION OF ATHENA S.A.”, as part of its purpose, will be able to make use of abandoned, vacant or inactive buildings with the agreement and cooperation of the owners, their managers, to restore maintained buildings and new monuments, to undertake actions to strengthen the newly created and innovative entrepreneurship and solidarity economy, cultural upgrades, sports activities and actions for the benefit of young and vulnerable social groups. In order to serve its objectives, the company may, inter alia, register the building and cultural stock, carry out works or awards to third-party renewal works, conduct architectural competitions and generally competitive procedures for the studies to be awarded, prepare, outsourced, monitor and receive studies, such as for the renewal and restoration of maintained buildings and new monuments, urban renewals and architecture, studies on housing restoration and rehabilitation issues. It may also participate in development programmes, public and private, as well as in ESDP business programmes, in actions or the execution of projects following the conclusion of programme contracts with public bodies, OTAs or legal entities governed by public law, the organisation of programmes, reports and conferences in cooperation with institutions of the European Union. During the discussions in the Committee on Production and Trade, taking into account the comments made by colleagues in the debate and the bodies involved in the consultation, some improvements were made to the provisions of the bill, which I think the Minister will then mention. Improvements were made in Article 2, in line with the proposal of the National Disabled Persons Confederation, for actions to improve the accessibility of the urban environment to disabled and reduced mobility. Changes to Article 2 were also made, according to the observations of the Greek archaeologists. I would like at this point to respond to the criticism of the opposition in the bill. I would like to point out that what makes the impression is that there has been nowhere heard a self-criticist by parties who have been ruling for decades and are largely responsible for the state of the centre of Athens, inconsistency, lack of coordination and impoverishment, so that the city is left to degeneration and decline. So let the representatives of the New Democracy and Democratic Incorporation respond to what the Municipality of Athens and the Region of Attica has prevented for many decades from carrying out the studies that have been available and that these studies have been fulfilled. Of course, these administrations, like the government, were administrations that were friendly to these parties. What prevented former ministers for the Environment and Energy, Interior, New Democracy Infrastructure and PASOK from doing what they had to do? Why was the Athens Regulatory Plan abolished? Why have we not seen serious coordination initiatives in the past and a single joint project between the Region and the Municipality? Why was the EAW entity abolished to unify archaeological sites and replications? The question, then, is: What was the current government supposed to do, seeing the inappropriate level of self-government? To leave the situation in the inertia of the system, resulting in the continuous deterioration of the city, without any specific interventions for the recovery of the negative course? The choice was to do something or not to talk about the initiatives that should have been taken by the Municipality and the Region. There was a positive example from the recent past, a work that had been produced. It's the ESA that I mentioned, the Company for the Consolidation of Archaeological Spaces and Renewals. I ask: would there be the renewal of the Dionysius Areopagitou and Apostle Paul, Thassios and more generally the area around the Acropolis, without EAH? Apparently, no. The big mistake is that in January 2014 the EAFRD was repealed, as was the Organisation of Regulatory Plan for Attica, the ORGA. If the EAW had not been abolished by the Samara - Venizelos government, the object and replications that we are discussing today could have been extended by that body. The parties that abolished EAEC and ORSA, namely PASOK and New Democracy, are critical. I think that this criticism is only from an opposition standpoint. I spoke to me at the committee meeting on the bad relationship between the New Democracy and the Right in general with town planning, planning and the housing environment. In the years of the Almighty of the Right - and EPE and the New Democracy - the design left it in the interests of the chips and speculators of the industry. Any urban planning followed the "flying" of the "bugs", cutting down small plots, plots, where the world was building arbitrary and retrospectively came to town. This is how many cities in Greece formed. Juda in 1968 by law of Pattakou of logic "drive and build everywhere", gave the charismatic shot to the preserved buildings and to the entire settlements that had been maintained until then. Then the beaches with mammoth buildings were destroyed, with typical examples of Malia in Crete, Rhodes and elsewhere. Pattacos then increased the structural factor without criteria of 30% and in many areas to 40%, without any proportional increase in public spaces. The New Democracy, too, by law Tagaras, reduced the public spaces in the full new city plans, amending the Tritsis Law and reducing the contribution to land. What about the off-site construction that destroyed the most beautiful natural beauties in the country and sprinkled out buildings without a plan, no road, no sewage, no way to access beaches, no schools, no squares, no welfare areas, etc.Huh? This chaotic urban situation is inherited. This is what the Greek people have today. That is why I am saying that it needs self-criticism if we want to be honest and help to make up for situations and change of course. I believe that all the political forces in the country are now aware of the need for refreshments and the exceptional importance of upgrading the urban centres. The beginning has become. With this bill, the first bases for the renovation of the center of Athens come in. I hope that this need will be understood, because the benefit that will arise for the centre of Athens will be multiple. The criticism of the operating costs that the new operator will have is unsatisfactory. The cost of a few tens of thousands of euros, even hundreds if it is, will bring a great deal of goodwill to millions and billions of euros if we measure the quality of life and the benefits of goodwill for tourism. In this vision of upgrading the center of Athens we need to activate the new powers of scientists and students, universities and polytechnics. In my position in committee I referred to the efforts made to regenerate the center of Athens by Melina Merkouri and Antonis Tritsis. So let us honor the persons who dare and offer the place. I would like to stress, and I repeat it today from the Stepma of plenary, that for Athens to change faces, more bold interventions are needed. It takes intervention in whole blocks, in whole areas with integrated project, a long-term and long-term project. This will be implemented in stages by many mayors who will be followed by many ministers and different governments. This plan has to be combined with cross-party consultation, and I don't mean tonight. It will therefore require a new institutional framework and possibly a revision of constitutional provisions. So let us look at things in a positive way. The step taken today, and the debate, let us begin with understanding, dialogue, in order to create the common vision and plan for the good of all those who live and exist, but also those who come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u9	Mr Athanasios Bourras, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in detail in the committee responsible, the big questions about this draft law 'Recommendation of a Reflection Body of the City of Athens' are unexplained. I specifically asked, and then I did not get an answer: What necessity led you to deposit this draft law? Where does it appear necessary to set up and operate this public limited company? What weaknesses is it going to serve? I would like to give an answer to Mr Dimitras. We have explained, but it is not enough time, that the EAW, i.e. the Unification Society of Archaeological Areas and Reproductions, has completed its cycle, completed the process, and has done and carried out the project for which it was set up, without any consultation, as all the bodies invited to the committee have told us. Even the relevant Municipality of Athens stressed that there was no consultation, no mention of the fact that we are going to do something. They were called to the committee and for the first time they had seen this draft law. As we all remember, rather than all of them, with the exception of the Attica Region, they were negative to some of them quite sceptical about the feasibility of this draft law. The government, however, in the midst of Easter festivities - that is, in the Easter holidays - submitted this draft law, which actually interferes with the self-sufficiency of the OTAs, especially the largest municipality in the country, the capital city of the country, the Municipality of Athens. This is yet another raw intervention by the Government in local government, undermining its role, by removing critical responsibilities - I will say below when it comes to the things it says and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - by creating mechanisms for appointments of one side, trying to promote the failed model of central bureaucratic planning. The draft law "Recommendation of an entity of the city of Athens" makes an institutional intervention to the historic capital of Greece, Athens, which is downgrading its operation and authoritarianly interferes with the operation and responsibilities of the municipality and leads to central control of those who are trying to decentralise, while there should be time-consuming support of the Municipality of Athens, Mr.Miaaras, especially in a municipality which has both the staff and the appropriate structures, such as the Municipality of Athens. The public debate aimed at the development of the Municipality of Athens in a metropolitan municipality according to European standards has been interrupted by this government. The draft law therefore creates many legal problems, as the Municipality of Athens is responsible for the public areas of the city, the licensing of the projects and, more generally, for the overall operation of the city. Since the end of 2014, the project of integrated urban interventions for the centre of Athens has been institutionalised, on the basis of a programme of integrated spatial investments submitted to the Region, approved its funding from European resources and was launched and unified, at the moment, projects in the commercial triangle of Athens. These projects, however, are referred to - and here is the strange - and in the design of the company "ANALYSIS Athena S.A.". In 2014, the regulatory plan of Athens metropolitan Greece was established in cooperation with ORSA and harmonizes the planning of the Municipality of Athens. The Municipality of Athens also launched a programme for the restoration of deported buildings and the rest of abandoned buildings, while funding was provided for this by the European Investment Bank. So, on the basis of what complete economic studies and feasibility studies are planned by this public limited company interventions? With what programme, what project and what institutional framework? All vaguely. That's what the Scientific Committee says. Also basic is the overlap of responsibilities with the Municipality of Athens as well as extensive overlap of responsibilities with other bodies. The draft law does not mention the refugee recovery plan for the families of cancer patients who are hospitalized at 'Saint Savva' anywhere. The only relevant is the presence of the commander of the "Saint Savva" Hospital on the board of the public limited company. And only in the report, somewhere, mentions the provision of housing assistance to the weak economic families of cancer patients who are hospitalized at "Saint Savva". It is of course worth asking whether, for 15 years - the thirty, Minister - you have done so, 15 and which can be extended, of course, which is vague, that is, as much as we want - the commander of the hospital in question will decide - because these are the aims - for the tourist development of Athens, the sporting activities, the solidarity economy and so many other things that are mentioned. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen, read the purposes of the public limited liability company. The draft law is so general that it creates a series of conflicts of interest that it could potentially result in arbitrary decisions and overlap with democratically determined actions of the Municipality of Athens. But to decide, in other words, the democratic body called the municipal council and others to do the company. The bill consists of nine articles, eight articles, but the ninth is the start of application. The first article speaks of the establishment of this company. We, as I said in committee and as we will say today, will vote against both the bill and the articles, but I am obliged to show some things that are unprecedented. In Article 1, this limited company is set up. This article, however, is inconsistent with Article 6 of the draft law, which stipulates that specific rules for the management and use of the company’s revenues may be laid down by CSM. They will be governed by the provisions on CIOs and public limited companies under the provisions of Law 3429/2005 and Law 1290/1920. It says, however, that the above references give rise to a major issue. In other words, it is possible, by regulatory decision, to regulate issues in a divergence from the provisions on CIUs and public limited companies. A question also arises as to the feasibility of a series of ministers being excluded. Life to have, sign a lot of them. But there's nowhere to be signed by the Interior Minister. There's the Minister of Health because you're putting the commander inside. Can it not be signed by the responsible Minister of the Interior responsible for the matter? In fact, you say somewhere on which criteria the statute will be amended. Do you know what you're saying? By the Minister of Finance. How will it be modified, who will indicate it and what will it do? I mean, other things. In Article 2, which I am going to deal with in particular, because it is also the focus that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is doing, it defines the objectives. What can I tell you? This is a series of purposes for which I do not know where to begin and where to finish. The aims are not even mentioned in the Municipality of Athens. I told you, Minister, that even in Article 2, you're talking about what this company is doing. ‘In taking actions or carrying out projects following the conclusion of programme contracts with public OTA bodies or legal entities governed by public law, in particular when carrying out operational programmes’. This is where we create a hat for everyone. In other words, this company can go to the Municipality of Larissa, it can go to the Municipality of Acharnon, to mention our area. Is that possible, Minister, to stand? I would also like to point out something else that I mentioned in committee. A question arises about the use of property after the assent of the lawholders or holders and not of the owner. I mean, don't ask the owner. There's parties between them. Don't be surprised. Legally, then, the only one who had to be asked is the owner. I don't know if we should be asking for squats. If intercepts are your theme, and the question and the answer. I should like to stress a few points which the Scientific Committee of the Parliament points out. The report is, unfortunately, last minute. This is a problem for the full study. It is noted by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament that the majority of articles have derogations from existing provisions which are not specified. Confusion shall be created by exclusive or shared competences of the various competent bodies, with the result that these entities have a certain conflict of competence with the public limited liability company. After a detailed description of two-three pages the responsibilities of the first grades and regions concludes: ‘In the light of the above it is first to note that it is not clear whether the exercise of powers by the established company in terms of coordination, programming and regeneration within the limits of the Municipality of Athens, the execution of renovation projects, the award of third-party renewal projects and the preparation or monitoring of the studies, will be exclusive in relation to the competences of the Municipality of Athens, the Region of Attica and the decentralised administration or collapsing’. Look and go back. And this paragraph concludes: “... the coordination of these bodies is not clear, nor is the way in which any conflict of competence may be lifted. Secondly, it says, ‘It is not clear whether the exercise of these powers by the company ‘ANALYSIS RELATIONS S.A.’ will obey the more general and specific design developed or developed by the relevant central bodies. In a negative case, note, "... the extent of the derogations is not quantified or predictable", that is to say, "... and their ability to harmonize them in a comprehensive system of spatial planning and urban renewal". I conclude - because I predict that the President will cut me off - 'the end, for reasons of correct application of the regulation, does not specify the legislative framework from which a derogation may be granted, neither the type nor the scope of the derogations envisaged can be determined, which gives cause for concern as to the compatibility of the provision with the constitutional arrangements'. I have talked to you again about constitutional arrangements, Mr President, on environmental protection. And it concludes with Article 8, Minister, for which I have expressed myself in the committee on staff repetitively. Do you know what the Staff Committee says? He says he can hire staff with a job relationship, work...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u11	Mr. Bourra, gather it and close it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the interests of clarity, it would be appropriate, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, to clarify at least in a general context the positions it will generally require, given that the purpose and the bodies envisaged in the company are described in detail in the previous section, that is to say, the staff. In other words, we have the originality, as the Scientific Office says, to allow recruitment of staff and to cover service needs which are not specified. Finally, Mr President, this new state-owned company is not really going to solve any of the problems of the city of Athens. This is an attempt by the government to hat the Municipality of Athens in order to share the deck of studies and projects itself with the appropriate policy. There is no master plan that analyses the need to create this public limited company. That is why we are voting against both the draft law in principle and the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and six teachers from the 8th General School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome to the House and Athens. You also went down in case we were talking about Athens. Mr Maniotis, because the Deputy Minister has come, do you want to take the floor first to support his amendment so that the rapporteurs from now on have heard it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u14	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u15	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need three minutes. It is clearly a legislative improvement. What's the matter? It concerns public works programmes implemented by the OAED, but designed and prepared by the General Secretariat of the Community and Other Resources. The agency's proposal was to add the General Secretariat of Community and other resources so that there would be no management problem in case of control, because we are talking about co-financed programmes. In other words, there is nothing to change in the way in which social work programmes are being implemented to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u17	So we don't need the OAED?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u18	No, I'm telling you - you probably didn't hear - that the OAED is being implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u19	Mr Bourrai, if I make any comments to you for twenty years in this House, what am I going to do to young colleagues? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u20	Mr President, will we ask about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u21	Yeah. Minister, please stay for five minutes for some clarifications. I'll give the floor in turn for a minute. Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u22	First of all, I apologise. I didn't know if you'd give a reason for questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u23	Okay. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u24	It doesn't change anything. Didn't you say? Here you read to see what's changing. I read it again: The General Secretariat for the Management of Social and Other Resources of the Ministry of Labour, that is to say, you are taking it to what OAS is going to do. In other words, the OAED, which is the incumbent incumbent for years to do this work, which has the right to do so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u25	We asked you to ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u26	That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u27	Ask. I didn't hear you asking a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u28	And I ask: is that possible? What's he gonna do? He doesn't have that responsibility. He has the authority to plan, he has no staff. The staff will be hired by other bodies, and it is the OAED in particular, which is regulated and which you invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u29	Good, Mr. Bourra. Mr Dimitras, would you like to clarify the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u30	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u31	Mr Maniotis, would you like to clarify the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u32	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u33	Mr Panayiot, would you like to clarify this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u34	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u35	Mr Katsotis, would you like to clarify the amendment before the Minister leaves?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u36	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u37	Mr Lazarides, would you like to clarify the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u38	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u39	Here, Mr Amyras, you have the floor on the amendment for a minute. Ask, please, no placement. Place yourself in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u40	I know. I'm just going to ask the Minister for clarification. In this way, there seems to be a duplication of responsibilities between the OAED and the General Secretariat. Does the General Secretariat have its own programmes that run beyond the OAED? If that is the case, I tell you that you are right to do so. But if it is not the case, we have a question because you are actually substituting the OAED. So that's what we want you to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u41	Mr. Georgiadis isn't here. Mr President, you have the floor to answer the two remarks by Mr Bourras and Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u42	Good. I say very quickly again that we are talking about a proposal that has come from the service as a purely legal improvement so that there is no problem with controls, because we are talking about co-financed. What is the process of co-financed to date? That's why I insist it doesn't change. The General Secretariat shall draw up and draw up the programme implemented by the OAED. That doesn't change. That's what's happening now. All public works programmes are implemented by the OAS, but because they are co-financed projects by the NSRF framework, we have responsibility for the involvement of the General Secretariat. Since the previous wording of the law was mentioned by the OAED, but the programmes are implemented together with the General Secretariat, the proposal for a service, to be completely clean and to avoid any problem, was to be clarified in the law. I think there's no more issue. I think the first point is a matter of misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u43	The reason is the special speaker from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, MP Argolidis Mr.Ioannis Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to express our grief for the loss of Costa Liaska and honour his memory. Kostas Liaskas was President of the Technical Chamber for many years and Minister and a genuine expressor of the technical world of the country. So we express to his family our grief and sympathy. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, do you know what you remind me of when I started reading your bill? You reminded me of Nikos Vamvacoula. Nikos Vamvakoulas, then, at a football season that Olympiacos was not doing well at a meeting said: "Hey, guys, we're not going well. Are we not building a three-member committee from five to six people?" Of course, Nikos Vamvakoulas was a good defensive man and once had a goal. You are now trying to imitate him, but in a very bad way, because you are a very bad government. Obviously, some time there in Maximos you said: "We're not going well. Municipal elections are coming. We'll have to put a candidate in the Municipality of Athens. They will ask us what we have done for the Municipality of Athens and we will have done absolutely nothing for the Municipality of Athens." So we're not building a state-owned company to say that at least we've built a state-owned company that's gonna help us nominate some 50, sixty, hundred people who can play our game? That's who you reminded me of. Nikos Vamvacoula. However, because things are very serious about the way in which the country is governed and the handling of public affairs, this bill comes, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when one more bubble of the government exploded. The bubble of the government's provocative confrontation with its party contractor, Mr. Kalogritsa. Two days ago, then, we learned that the chosen government contractor, Mr. Kalogritsa, the contractor who was going to get a television license with a mortgage on some nonexistent pastures on the Ionian island, with his relative relationship with government officials, has taken over the four of the eight contractors, the breaking contractors of the Patras - Tower axis. Four contractors of a total budget of EUR 250 million, where contractors when the European Commission said to the Government 'what you are doing, we are seriously unconscious', for the first time the Government said 'Don't be afraid, if we go out of the budget, we will complete the funds from the Public Investment Programme'. It has never been done in public work before, that the government commits that for some project if the programming falls outside it will be complemented by public money. And, of course, Mr. Kalogritsas is the man who can no longer support his bail letters for the remote sensing of Florina either for the Kalloni-Sigri axis or for the drainage of Dionysus. Because, of course, when someone gives more than 55% discounts, no matter how close to the government, the scandal is going off at some point. Dear ministers, you are three and a half years in the country's governance. Can you tell us what you've done for the Municipality of Athenians? Not as an administrative structure but for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Athens. Because to the ordinary citizen all that comes to mind is that you had received functionally surplus urban transport, you have made them move half the buses from what was going on in 2014 and you will hand them over after the next elections completely problematic with tens of millions of deficits. That's all you seem to have done for Athens. But there's something else that's just as interesting. A year ago, it was May 2017, Prime Minister Tsipras visited the Ministry of Environment and Energy. And there in the presence of Minister Stathakis made announcements about the future of Athens. This is where I open a parentheses. To make announcements from the Ministry of Environment and Energy, obviously the ones I have announced, which are about what you want to build with your company, considers that they belong to the Ministry of the Environment. Now what changed and these objects come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and the Minister of State? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the Prime Minister promised a year ago? He promised that such a time, towards the end of 2018, the competitions - not only will have been announced, will have been completed - for the following ones in Athens: demolition of "Loforos", transfer of the land of Panathinaikos, a metropolitan park in Woudi, a single green front on Alexandra Avenue, refreshment of Oliveonia - Botanic, creation of a host of camps of the Ministry of National Defence to build a real metropolitan center in Woudi. In fact, the Prime Minister has promised that he will personally oversee this project, because, as he has said, he has postgraduate studies in town planning, and therefore with his professional experience he will supervise this project. Mr. Minister, can you tell us what exactly has been achieved by Prime Minister Tsipras from his commitments a year ago on the issues of Athens? What do we have in front of us now? What kind of bill are we talking about? We are discussing a bill to create another state-owned company, a state-owned company, which is created by the municipality of Athens, without the signature of the fellow Minister for the Interior. Another parentheses with many questions. Why is that? Ten Ministers sign the bill, not the Minister for the Interior responsible for local government. Why? And what's this bill coming up to do? It stumbles on Article 101 of the Constitution, which talks about administrative decentralisation of the country and makes state overconcentration. It stumbles in Article 102 of the Constitution, which expressly states that the administration of local affairs belongs to the local government I and II agencies. It also stumbles on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a basic principle of the European idea. And, of course, it is in complete conflict with Europe that we all want to shape, the Europe of the regions, which is next to the citizen as a powerful weapon towards Europe of demagogy, populism, extreme right, racism and introversion. You are trespassing on two articles of the Constitution and two basic principles of the European idea. You're setting up a state-owned company for what purpose? I imagine an intelligent brain there in Maximou would say: "We tripled the Secretary-General to the Ministries. So far we know that he has a Secretary-General of every department. We now have a Secretary-General, a Special Secretary, a Special Representative, a Thematic Special Secretary. We have a hundred general secretaries. Obviously this tank of party officials is over. We now find a new tank. We remove responsibilities from self-government, we create a state-owned company - a good shop, a new state-owned company - and we do what we want to do to it." Instead of doing what a modern European government has to do, to form the institutional framework for the metropolitan Municipality of Athens and for the metropolitan Municipality of Thessaloniki, which are two needs that exist, they are visible, proposals have been tabled, not for a very simple reason. Because party and financial control will get out of your hands. One would ask me: Good, to accept your criticism, Mr Maniotis. When you ruled, can you tell us what you were doing for Athens? That's a reasonable question. So I pray to answer what we did for Athens in a year, in 2014. We created, institutionalised, legislated the Regulatory Plan of Athens - Attica. Thirty years after the law of Tritsis, Athens and Attica acquired an integrated plan of real holistic development in all areas, business, social, environmental, urban, transport. For the first time, Attica and Athens have acquired a regulatory plan, which you voted against. I give you the report on the Minutes, as Vangelis Venizelos says. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, again in 2014, within the same year, we established the Integrated Urban Intervention Plan for the Centre of Athens, the CAP of the Centre of Athens, leading urban, transport, development intervention for the center of Athens. For the first time in Greece he dared to gather responsibilities of seventeen different objects in a single text signed by many Ministers and to form the framework for how we would overcome the problems of the centre of Athens - take the relevant one, please, for the Minutes - at the same time as the corresponding GPA for the seven municipalities of western Athens and the corresponding GPA for the Municipality of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is that enough? Oh, no. We did one more thing. We tried to resolve a major theme of the center of Athens, which is the one thousand eight hundred abandoned buildings in the center of Athens. They are buildings that constitute a danger to the safety and life of people who pass through them and are economical and other burdens for owners who received them to have buildings that cannot be renovated. And we gave the state and the Municipality of Athens the opportunity - because it was in collaboration with the Municipality of Athens - to intervene, so that through financial tools such as JESSICA, like the Yunger package, such as the NSRF, these eight hundred abandoned buildings in the center of Athens can be shared with the owners, the municipality and the state. And we formed a full piece of legislation. It was a ready draft law, which we delivered to the Minister for the Environment, Planning and Energy, which took over in January 2015. It was a ready draft law! Here's the document. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't ask me, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened so far. For three and a half years this draft law has not even been heard that it may be of interest to the government. And so that we can now come and see the legislation brought to us by the ministers. What's he asking us for? He says: "The two honourable ministers will deal with the centre of Athens with the newly-innovated, innovative entrepreneurship." It's an ambitious target, I respect him. I wonder, with what infrastructure will your offices or your ministries or your services, Mr. Ministers, deal with newly-innovated, innovative entrepreneurship? You will also be concerned with tourism, culture and the solidarity economy. With what infrastructure, Ministers? I shall make another comment in another article. You are asking us to derogate from the rules on town planning, public procurement, to make use of space. Why 'derogation'? I don't get it. Why don't you legislate if something is missing from Greek legislation? Third point. You are asking us to agree to appoint a seven-member board of directors. What qualifications, you guys, will these people do such a great job? There is not a single word about what these people should be qualified for. He just says somewhere they must be worthwhile people or something. And it comes to my mind the Vaterlide of the Government with the Greek Space Organization, where you were appointed - it was a bright exception to your evil self, but you didn't stand it for yourself, one month you let him be good and overthrow him - a great Greek scientist, Professor and academic Stamatis Krimizis, who resigned in a month, saying: 'fullow the money'. Why did that great man say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u45	Mr. Maniatou, you see the clock across the street, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u46	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. Fourth observation and the last of the bill: Incomprehensible, unacceptable wording says that this state-owned company "is recruiting staff with an indefinite and fixed-term contract of employment, with a project lease contract and a lease order". Questions to SYRIZA colleagues, who will be invited to vote in favour: How many, guys, will this company appoint? What specialties? With what budget? Are there even elementary traits? They're gonna be ten people, fifty, 100, five hundred? Why does not the bill say in elementary terms "we will appoint or employ up to twenty specialities". What will it be? Gardeners will be porters, architects, communists? Why don't you tell us what specialties you want us to give you legislative powers? And, of course, you are not telling us why the State General Accounting Office is unable to assess expenditure at a time of cruel austerity, where you are cutting three pensions from the pensioners...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u47	Mr. Maniatis, excuse me, but I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u48	Mr President, I am on my last page. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u49	Finish if you want to finish tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u50	I'll use my dentistry time as well. I won't use a dentist at all. That is why the General Accounting Office of the State does not mention a word about the cost. The cost is unknown. And, of course, the last point is that you are asking us to authorize you to form an advisory board of unfamiliar composition, unfamiliar costs, unknown responsibilities, as is the board of directors. To sum up, this is a bill of institutional, social, economic and political provocative. It is trying to create a useless and unnecessarily new state-owned company, and that is why we are voting against it both at the outset and on the articles. And because the country is at the end of the third memorandum, the Tsipra Memorandum, until August 2018, we say very clearly politically that we do not trust this government to negotiate the country's future for the next ten years, and that is why we are calling for elections to be called here and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u51	Until Mr Panagiotaros comes to Vima, to take the floor, and because I read the committee minutes, I think he should remember a man, because you are all talking about the abandoned buildings of Athens, to say something that you don't know about. The Institute of Local Government, when I was president at the CEDEFOP, created a scientific committee chaired by the memorable Dimitrios Tsatsos - and you will understand why he was the chairman of a scientific committee - recorded the buildings, found the owners. I am telling you to be very surprised - for those who do not know - that the largest owner is the Greek State with the first Ministry of Culture. The second owner is the Public Building Company and the third owner is a number of individuals. And because the first two were "closed" as legacys and it was difficult to exploit them, Dimitris Tsatsos created the legal framework, which was also a draft law and presidential decrees that could be used in these buildings. This came out in a volume. They have it in the relevant ministries, but they do not invoke it. They send their suggestions to the Ministers and the ministries' servants say they are their own ideas. So in memory of Dimitrios Tsatsos, I had to make this briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u52	Mr. President, when did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u53	It was still me in the CEDEFOP, Mr Spirtzi, so it must have been about 2010. Mr. Panayiot, I'm sorry I made you wait. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. If your aesthetic is of the type Jason Antigen, then we understand what kind of refreshment you want to do in Athens. Because it sounds like a oxymobile that people of all kinds want to be beautiful in the city, of the bacon, of the breasts and of the glazes. All kinds of bolts that burn down, break Athens and have broadly supported signatures by the overwhelming majority of MPs - and not just - SYRIZA. From the addicts of illegal immigrants, where you have given them land and water in Athens and doing what they really like, and they do not account for the rest of the citizens. The addicts of the Law Friday, who releases the sara and the bad coin and return to the scene of the crime and do their good work until they are arrested again by the police and then again by the Law of Friday to go out! The enthusiasts who are frustratingly defending the asylum of the illegals at the universities, who have turned them into a man of lawlessness and into points of invasion, do what they do and go back inside, because others are cowards. To the immunists of the immunity of all kinds of low-minorities at the expense of the overwhelming whole of this city, not just. The fiancés of the colossal economists, the monkey economists, the plaque, the cormorants, the assholes - see Greek - the legalisation of arbitrarily - see Mall - of the plastic bag and many other situations. The enthusiasts of the perpetuation of landfill, which did not reach us the most saturated landfill in the Bridge, and where the region electionally - Mrs Dourou - said she would shut down as soon as she took over and not only shut down, continue and expands with various terrain, but she also dug up money to continue the works in the Library, even though the European Union has thrown us a'red card', no one wants to do so, but in all chance of the region paying the money to the well-known capitalist for a project that might never work. Toll tumblers in housing tissue. Despite the assurances - the relevant Minister has left - that the people of Varymbobi, Saint Stephanos, Kifissia and other regions will not pay a toll, we are sure of the opposite. You represent everything that has become Athens in the mess it is found. You represent them because you have your ideas. You've taken most of the old and dirty PASOK, the sick, the windshield-like ones go where they find power and chair. You've taken all the negatives of the past. There are bodies. You say you want to set up a new body. To what will the new body differ from the previous ones? In nothing at all, because it will be governed by the same downgrading, zero-minded attitude that you have. You have not taken into account the other two main bodies, or rather you have taken no account of the Municipality of Athens, even though the Municipality of Athens must have the first reason for the Municipality of Athens. But you have taken into account the only body, which has agreed with you, the Attica Region, Ms. Dourou, your fellowman, who is doing great work with her actions, people are drowning, burning, destroying, destroying, and the only pharaonic project - was speaking pro-electionally against pharaonic works - is the rejuvenation of the pharmacist front. He spent some 300m euros from funds, budgets or elsewhere to build a monstrous bay. Those who have passed will see that a huge wall, cement, cement, cement, cement, was supposed to have come to the region said that this project will be done so that the inhabitants of Moschatos, Kallithea and other areas can resurrect and see to the sea. Are we seeing AKOOR again - random? - to pinch hundreds of millions of euros for a project, which no one understands, and as long as the time goes, more and more people are aware of where it is intended. The Municipality of Athens, which should have the first reason, unfortunately, for the last two years, has been run by a highly failed mayor, who has done nothing but illegal immigrants. Although, lately, he is protesting himself, because the situation has reached the unprecedented. Of course, little evil for him, because he lives somewhere in the north suburbs, in a very nice maisonette, so he doesn't give a shit about what's going on in the center of Athens. Instead of dealing with the Municipality of Athens and seeing how it will become a metropolitan municipality and how uncomfortable for the good of the citizens and the residents in the capital of the country, you have done nothing at all. You've been sailing all over three and a half years now. Otherwise you started election in 2015, otherwise post-election, otherwise along the way in August 2015 and after the September 2015 elections. You've brought everything! And while you can't separate two donkeys straw, literally, you have the requirement to regenerate Athens. And all this with a new C.E.E.L.D. Because the old TECs you have put them in the Emigration Fund and sold out those who are good. The other ones, the rots, you'll keep them. So you're building a new C.E.L.D., that's a nice thought. - which does not fall under the memorials and all this slap plan. You'll appoint new directors, assistant directors, secretaries, phantoms, offices, cleaners, gardeners or anything else. Election play, you're doing nothing else. The city of Athens has serious problems. A problem that we are experiencing in these days and we are seeing a number of tragedies happening has to do with the Mars Field, one of the three great green lungs in Athens, where the Greeks of the region do not dare enter the field. Even the city officials don't dare come in. And we saw the images a few days ago. It is being compiled - it says - a special project by the municipality, in cooperation with the police. Once a week there will be special police forces, MATs, DIAs, along with municipal workshops, to clean up the syringes from the largest drug park currently in Athens, which are completely ravaged by foreigners, who do what they want. They've got the crickets, and no one's bothering them. Of course, they are without papers, without anything at all. Intimidated, wretched refugees, my hands. From Exarchia and the hill of Strefi, another beautiful area, a second unbaptised area in the center of the city of Athens. Patrol no longer enters there for any reason. If the '100' is called for a reason, it doesn't go. On the hill of Streff it becomes one of the same. The collection that one of syringes will do if he goes there will be huge and all kinds and types. Here to congratulate the Minister, Mr. Toska, who we have seen in recent weeks Athens and, more generally, all Greece has become an incredible "Far West" which, like him, does not exist. We see people being shot but day after day, slaughtered and killed, we see beatings. Whatever you want is done. It's all right, it's nothing at all! And then you talk about rejuvenating the city of Athens! Remember the point - landmark of the city of Athens, Omonoia Square, this wonderful square once with its dreadful fountains and the lawn, which was a reference point in the past. In the years of Mr Laliotis there has been a'regeneration' - which had then cost close to 800,000 drachmas. And what happened? They took the square and rounded it up a bit oval. They cut two streets. There was a mess of traffic. Only cement, in fact, is there absolutely nothing above and beyond any Greek for many years no one dares to go there. The unification of archaeological sites, gentlemen of coexistence, where is it? Nor is it anywhere in this bill. He had started earlier than some romantics, such as the late Tritsis, but others, who had a vision, to unify the archaeological sites of the city of Athens. Really, what about the Plato Academy? You've left her there at God's mercy. Have you gone for a walk or gone away for you, or do you not agree to go to Cologne, to see an incredible park of hundreds of acres, in which, whatever time you go, will you see Pakistanis playing cricket and even take some stones, honors there of the ancients and make beams, scooters or anything else? Of course, no reason for someone to walk there with their family. It could be a good and nice green lung and a place that thousands of tourists could visit every day, as is done with the Acropolis and other places in the city of Athens. Well, at Philippi's and the Acropolis, you can see what's been going on in the last few days. Associations of foreigners, Algerian 'created refugees' - within too many importing countries - stabbing and robbing. They're heavy on bells from everywhere, the police arrests some people, but there's others and others all the time, since they're so many of them, who happen to be all criminal. Unfortunately, we're getting the knit from everywhere. While, on the one hand, you boast that tourism leaves us money and you can and are mocking it up to a percentage of GDP from tourism, which touches about 28%, on the other, we have such issues, which should have been solved at birth. If we go a little back to the past, who might not remember that a mayor had put bars in the malleable triangle, which had also cost a few hundred million euros? They have never been used, not one day, and no responsibility has been sought by anyone for this. From the bars, then we went to the vaccines, which cost a lot more money to the Greek people. We see every day in this beautiful city that you want to replicate hundreds of illegal three-circuits of foreigners, without papers, without anything at all, looking for the dolls along with thousands of Roma from all over the Balkans and elsewhere, with what this could mean for health issues, epidemics and anything else. But these are for you, whoever touches them is racist and does not want to deal with them. Recycling is another major issue, which is about raki collectors, domestic and foreign. It is a very serious issue, which is nothing to do with substance, which would help many levels in the beauty and improvement of the image of the city of Athens. Here all the municipalities of Lecanopdi and not only, on the one hand, are shouting about the dumps, but on the other hand, they have done nothing themselves to collect not even the grass and branches, which touch about 50% of the waste. Because if there were machinery that would be trimmed on the spot, they would cut the branches, all this would not go to the dump, instead would go to the green areas of each municipality and help many differently. For the court of the Panathinaikos word, for the group symbol of the city of Athens! You talk about'refugees' and you have other reasons why you want to regenerate them. It is not what you want - because it is not specifically mentioned in the bill - that the relatives of the patients who are present at the "Saint Savvas" Hospital will be left there. Somewhere else makes us think that this regeneration has something to do with that in these buildings, when they're regenerated, you'll see some strange guys staying inside and not relatives. [[At the point, the end of the speaker's speech bell hits warningly]] Mr President, your tolerance for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u55	Keep going. It was a warning bell anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u56	Yeah, I saw it. I'm just gonna need two or three more minutes. The court of Panathinaikos should be the first on the agenda for the regeneration of the city of Athens and even on the site where the historic field is located, on Alexandra Avenue and with the center of the court of Panathinaikos to regenerate the entire area around. As was done in Philadelphia with the court of AEK and it was well done, as was done in Karaiskakis with the Olympic court, so it should be done with the court of Panathinaikos. But a word from either one of you, nothing at all. Urban transport, which helps to regenerate and generally to the beautiful image of the city, is another sad element. More than 50% of vehicles are decommissioned. The ball has been literally lost for buses and trolleyes at the expense of travel and the Athenians and tourists visiting the city. There are only brand-new buses, as we saw in the city of Mytilini, with signs in Arabic for illegal immigrants, not to mention any confusion and go to any other bus, as if something were going to happen! For tourism, which is our heavy industry, good or bad, everything is working and going on its own, because from central planning and care there is nothing at all. For security, as we said before, things are dramatic. Ask some policemen of the Direct Action, DIAH, to tell you some things about the centre of the city of Athens, about the neighborhoods, what is going on in Saint Panteleimon, Attica Square, Omonia and elsewhere and who are slaughtered each other every day. They can't hold back the intruders. The commercial triangle, which you have literalized and dispersed with the three memoranda and not only, which should be a attraction, is of course not. He doesn't give you a rat's ass about what's going on there. Go on to a cosmopolitan at Pssilri's to have been most of you and up to that point or a little further. But for those who have been struggling and struggling every day, for decades, the craftsmen, nothing. For infrastructure not to talk about. Every day you read and see the articles in the newspapers and elsewhere. Tree holes, street lacquers, old abandoned buildings, most of which belong to the public. They're yelling for others, but the worst manager is the public itself. Refreshment of the city of Athens does not primarily require funds, as everyone does all the time. A lot of money has been spent in the past and has gone to the wedding of Karaggiozis. Vision, real vision, mood, love, appetite and above all philosopheria and not philosophy, is needed to regenerate Athens, as well as any other city in Greece. These to be done, need patriots and non-internationalists, non-governmental organizations, judiciaries and unrelated intellectuals, who are not even interested in their towns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u57	I should like to inform you that eight have been written, namely seven colleagues, because Mr Paradoxopoulos wants to support his amendment simply. I'll tell them to know upstairs - down their turn. It is Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mr. Karras, Mr. Karanastassis, Mrs. Megaloconomou, Mrs. Kaphantaris, Mrs. Karakostas and Mr. Sevastakis. Finally, the special speakers will ask the Minister if he wants to speak and then we will be going to two colleagues, a parliamentary representative. I hope we're done tonight. Mr Katsotis, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The position of the JRC for this draft law entitled "Reflections Body of the city of Athens" was presented by our rapporteur to the committee and has at its core the improvement of the quality of life of the people's family, without any additional financial burden. This position has also defined our position on the respective legislative initiatives of previous governments, which we have not only called into question, Mr Dimitras, but have actively opposed them, because they have made capital choices to further increase its profitability, of course with lost people's families. Mr Diaras, rapporteur of SYRIZA, in committee, but today he asks: What was the main cause that Athens, and especially the centre, had fallen to an unacceptable extent, without serious interference? Why was the Athens Regulatory Plan abolished? And it ends up with the need, as the bill says, to coordinate three levels: government, region and municipality, because it is absolutely necessary and conditional on coordination for proper studies in a general and comprehensive plan for urban intervention. What do we want to point out? The cause was neither a lack of coordination between the various levels of government and capital. The cause is the specific priorities that have come in and come in each time, with the main aim of ensuring a satisfactory profit rate for capital. The cause is your choice to satisfy exactly the needs of business groups. SYRIZA's rapporteur is referring to the ORGA and claims that he delivered the Attica Regulatory Plan, but that is where everything stayed on paper. We note that the anti-grassroots philosophical directions of the Athens Regulatory Plan are not left to the cards at all, they are already being implemented. The Greek and Falitic Delta have long taken their way. The privatization of the last large free areas of Attica in the construction capital for tourist infrastructure and facilities, for the handling of goods, is completed, condemning popular strata in an absolute weakness to meet minimum needs, such as ensuring the microclimate, public sporting and recreational spaces. The JRC warned the people many years ago that the needs of Attica's people for cheap safe housing with easy access are sacrificed on the altar of urban renewals aimed at an Attica economic and banking centre, while at the same time these renovations lead to a concentration of the "people" of technical works on the minimum groups that have technical experience and economic capacity to rebuild entire blocks. The infrastructure is constructed by PPPs and concessions, which are translated into huge profits for groups, with excellent services for popular strata. The SYRIZA rapporteur in committee, but also here today in plenary, confirms the correctness of the above-mentioned JRC points. At the same time, it reveals how the government of SYRIZA means the healing of Athens, with extremely expensive interventions in free spaces and with pretext to address climate change and not the needs of the people's family, with just as expensive 'green' cyclists, of course, who care for the ears of easily accessible people, but projects that drain funds for the necessary technical and social infrastructures that workers and their families need. And at this time when the second "green" lung of Athens, the Marios Field, is consciously left to desolate. And what do you think? Convert old city buildings, including old hotels, to business complexes, according to previous and current urban order designs. Mr. Diaras, you have criticised us, which is unequivocally against the JRC, for the attitude we have taken towards the development of the plan for the unification of the archaeological sites of the centre of Athens. The essence of our party's position, Mr. Diakaras, was reflected in the question that we tabled in April '99, which we said 'degenerates the unification of archaeological sites'. What were we talking about? "The project is transformed into an underground interconnection and perhaps an upgrade of the archaeological sites, which, of course, has nothing to do with the unification indicated by the studies, for which several million were spent. This is because, on the pretext of the decisions of the Central Archaeological Council, the proposals for terrestrial integration are abolished, with the corresponding sinking of the highway traffic and are replaced by underground traffic through pedestrian tunnels. The real unification of archaeological sites, as designed and studied, has not been done with the existing conditions and will not be done. This is because, based on the profit, the subject of unification and degeneration is also part of the more general planning of the urban order for Athens. That's what Mr. Deiaras said, the JRC. This position was subsequently confirmed to antenna. In the committee, as today, we heard many tears about the catalyst of Athens. It accuses each other of the old political staff and the present, as if not everyone were involved in it, they did not serve, in their own way, the same economic interests, the interests of capital. The governments of the New Democracy and of PASOK previously, SYRIZA today, were and are the ones that have shaped the current situation in Athens, in the other large and smaller cities with spatial regulations, as well as other legislative interventions, regarding forestry policy, the use of saints, building cooperatives, the implementation of technical projects. In this context, in order not to see your agreement, you are basically opposed to who more respects the entity and responsibilities of the Municipality of Athens, but also who believes more in the spectacular role of public-supervised limited companies. The bill provides for the establishment of the company ‘ANAPPLICATION OF ATHENA S.A.’. It will function in accordance with the rules of the private economy and, of course, under the supervision of the Ministries which are currently headed by and ministers on the table, Mr Flamouraris and Mr Spirtzis. The share capital of the company shall be taken over entirely by the Greek State in accordance with Article 5. In Article 2, the title "Standards" is covered in general terms by the subject matter of refreshers in the Municipality of Athens and by way of derogation from any other provision, with emphasis on the commercial triangle and refugees on Alexandra Avenue. It also stipulates that the company is able to take action in the context of its objective and actions to strengthen innovative entrepreneurship and the solidarity of the economy, to highlight the tourist character of the regions, cultural upgrading actions, sports activities and actions for the benefit of the young and vulnerable social groups. The object of intervention by the above public limited company is, in short, the possibility of promoting its parts to business groups. In addition, the specific content of the replications is a seven-sealed secret and shall be left to the board of directors of the company appointed by the Government, as provided for in Article 3, and shall form it each time in accordance with Article 2(3). On the other hand, Article 2 ‘Applications’ shall record the entire range of means to serve purposes. Among them, the delegation to third parties of refreshment projects and all types of studies, as referred to in this Article. It also includes any appropriate action and action falling within the objectives of the company, even if it is not explicitly mentioned in this Law. Of the eight board members, seven, including the representative of the Region of Attica, are currently in government choice. In relation to the company’s resources, Article 6 includes, among other things, revenues from the general management and recovery of assets by the company, as defined in Article 2, which means that any project completed shall be the subject of an economic exploitation either directly by the company or by third parties, for example by means of concessions, because not through the surplus fund in specific cases. It shall also be possible, by simple CIFs, to transfer as resources revenues from fees or allowances that may be collected from third parties related to the company. The wording is general and vague, so as to allow for the existence of revenues from other public bodies, most of which come from fees paid by the people. Cuveda is not managed for the purpose of managing the revenues from the activity of the company. She's also referred to a C.T.A. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights shall be consulted at the next meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and at the next meeting of the Committee on The company draws up it in accordance with the existing provisions, 'if required', as the draft law says. However, under Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to be taken into account as it is laid down that the staff needs to be met are specified in the Rules of Procedure. Finally, we note that the criticism of the New Democracy and the PASOK - KINAL, as it is said - is found in the bill in mind in its voting character through the thorns, as they suggest, of recruitment, which is being used by SYRIZA. They add a few doses for a lack of consultation and bypassing of the Municipality of Athens. Everything else is well burned! The bill essentially has the character of a white cheque in order to incorporate a series of activities and not just refreshments, which are mentioned in the Municipality of Athens, in its general policy of turning new sectors into investments, with a sufficient percentage of profit, with central public resources and powered by the operation of the respective infrastructures, through fees and rights, i.e. the looted income of the people's strata. The bill provides funds such as previous years for projects aimed at strengthening the entrepreneurship or competitiveness of business groups. I remind you of the projects with 10m euros funding for the conversion of three old hotels, 'Olympias', 'Bagion' and 'Mega Alexandros', as well as the EESC building, in entrepreneurship centres. Who has served this policy? People's strata and residents or business interests? They share millions of businessmen on the field, while amateur sport and sports areas are poor and expensive for the children of the people's family. The contributions made over the past few years to Omonia, Psilri, Gazi and Ermos can draw conclusions on their goals and results. In Hermos, the majority of small businesses were expelled. In Psyros business and crafts have been strangled and left their place in catering and entertainment shops, while Gazi has become a entertainer. The emergence of Attica to tourist destination, according to the general plan, means that the seafront of Attica is delivered to monopolistic groups for the construction of luxury tourist complexes, marina reception of luxury pleasure boats, as well as cultural creation and heritage are part of cultural tourism. More typical examples are the Greek and the area of the Faliric Delta. For Attica's popular strata, this evolution is practically equivalent to exalting them from the sea front. Even for the train station in Greek, Minister, who is a pillar of support for Attica's transport project - we are talking about millions of people - you do not guarantee its continuation and upgrading to the Greek. Promote the privatisation of the last major free spaces in construction capital for tourist infrastructures and facilities, for handling goods, condemning an absolute weakness in meeting basic needs, such as ensuring microclimates, people's sporting and recreational sites. The needs of Attica's popular strata for cheap and safe homes with easy access are sacrificed on the altar of urban regenerations that will serve the choices of capital in Attica to enhance its profitability. These re-examinations lead to a concentration of the "pipe" of the technical works in the minimum groups with technical experience and the economic potential to re-establish entire blocks. The infrastructure is constructed by PPPs and concessions, which are translated into huge profits for the groups. We note that the defence of the free spaces of Athens, the claim of spaces and infrastructure to meet the people's needs, needs to become a case and a part of the struggle of the people's movement itself, the mass media in the districts of Athens. They'll stand in the way so they don't get to the bottom of the big chapter. The JRC votes 'no' in principle, as well as in all the articles in the bill. It votes 'no' to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour, with which nothing changes. Of course, it will be the OAED. Employment programmes will simply be carried out, where unemployment will be recycled and, of course, these programmes, as they have been, tools to remove rights to implement all flexible forms of work for all those who make labour more cheaper for the large groups. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the functioning of the House, fifty-five students and students and four teachers attendance from the 2nd Argos High School of Orestria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has the title: "ANAPLASIS ATHENAS S.A." based in Athens, which is the object of the rapid implementation of renovations in the city of Athens, especially in the center of Athens, with emphasis on the areas of the commercial triangle and refugees of Alexandra Avenue. The aim of the overall design, as promoted, is to improve immediately the quality of life in Athens, to protect the environment, to create socially beneficial green, sport and recreational infrastructures and, at the same time, the economic development of the regeneration areas, to stimulate the economy and employment through a wide range of urban interventions, which will solve many problems affecting the aesthetics and the functioning of the capital. “ANAPPLICATION OF ATHENAS S.A.” claims to act as a coordinating centre, i.e. as the place that will be gathered and organically linked to the necessary factors, bodies and services, in order to compile an integrated plan for the upgrading of Athens at all levels. Among other actions to restore preserved buildings and newer monuments, to exploit abandoned, vacant or inactive buildings, to strengthen newly created entrepreneurship, as well as to promote cultural and sport activities in favour of young people and vulnerable social groups of the population. So it takes immediate activation of all, in order to make the city more attractive, more friendly, to resolve issues relating to housing protection, with accessibility, so that everyone can benefit, citizens, residents, merchants and, of course, the guest and welcome by the city of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, Athens is a city where the public space, because of the crisis, has suffered a great deterioration. The government's aim is for the contagious areas of the centre of Athens and the large commercial axes to emerge from the quarantine of abandonment, to restart commercial activity. We hope that the infrastructure and regeneration projects in the Attica basin will be one of the strong levers for exiting the crisis and strengthening the economy and social cohesion. In addition, investment in infrastructure and regeneration, particularly in town centers, can mobilise the necessary funds in order to hit the stagnation that prevails in recent years, to give life to many occupations and jobs to thousands of people in the center of Athens. In short, new employment and entrepreneurial incentives are being created. Ladies and gentlemen, the planning of the reform of the historic centre of Athens is a great deal of work and coordination in such sized interventions is essential for the best possible outcome. The interventions are not fragmentary and individual, but are part of a wider refreshment policy, so that the heart of the capital is given new life rate. The same design of reform of the Athens Centre includes the initiatives that have already been launched, such as the development of the total hundred and twenty buildings available to the Ministry of Labour, which remain closed and are devastated, the revival of the basic commercial axes in the center of Athens - Stadium - University, etc., which have many closed shops. As far as financing is concerned, the company will be able to raise funds from the Public Investment Programme, donations, inheritances, sponsorships and any kind of assistance of legal or natural persons, while its share capital is set at EUR 50,000 and is fully taken over by the Greek State. The Independent Greeks support the bill and we expect substantial dialogue and good cooperation with the stakeholders and the municipality in order to ensure for the newly established company the institutional excellence and economic viability, which will ensure its important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, for covering, through your speech, the excesses of other colleagues. Mr George Amyras has the floor, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. You will see that I am going to pay tribute to Mr Lazarides in terms of the economy of time, since we have analysed the issues at our committee meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at committee meetings, I am very sceptical when I hear about the establishment of a new ECJ. Where we are listening to the River TEN, we take our hat away, because we know very well that the TENs are in a peculiar, specific control or non-control regime, usually exceed costs, do not deposit budgets, etc. So this is our first objection, and that is why we do not see the bill for the establishment of this special purpose of an anonymous company "ATHENA". A second reason is that we consider the first reason in the regeneration of Athens to be the municipality of Athens and the Region, of course, of Attica. It is the constitutional requirement of Articles 101 and 102 for the obligation of administrative decentralisation and the administration of local affairs by the First and Second Level Local Government agencies and it is not very encouraging that the board of directors of this new company will not be a representative of local government. We propose that there should be participation and not necessarily of the Association of Municipalities of Attica. If this company develops action in other regions of Greece, they better elect a representative from the Central Association of Municipalities. I'm making you a suggestion. I also told the committee that the objectives as described are positive. The point is not to stay in the ideas report and to go into practice. How can we be sure that this will happen when we see, for example, that there is a slander, since part of the purpose of this company is the acceptance of inheritances and legacy, but is not provided for by a legal counsellor? You'll tell me that Article 8 says about staff, says that it can hire staff and a relationship like that to hire a lawyer for a job or hired me in order for a particular time. But we have no rules of procedure, we have no statutes. They're on their way, I imagine. In any case, however, the fact that the members of the D.C. The Minister will put them in fact with our co-presidents, making us sceptical about the possibility of independence of this company. And good today you're the Minister. Imagine a politician you dislike or who you do not consider capable of taking your place or any other minister and signing up, that member. We'll miss the sour cherry! Now because I always like to be specific and practical, I want you to tell me how this new anonymous company will move on two issues. Firstly, what will happen with the abandoned houses mentioned by Mr Kaklamanis? It is a great surprise that the Greek public is the main owner of these real estates. What will this company do in that direction? How will it unlock and in a practical way, how will it enable Athens to regain many neighborhoods by using these buildings that are today devastated? Secondly, I come to the refugee on Alexandra Avenue. In August 2016, there was the well-known amendment of three SYRIZA Members, Mr Sevastakis, who I see here, Mrs Kafantaris and Mr Gavroglou. We have also voted in favour of it, so that refugees can go to the region. This was done by Law 4414/2016 in August 2016. Finally, if I make the decision of the Council of State, a hundred and thirty-five apartments are legally deemed to have been transferred from public responsibility to the region and the region in February 2018 published a call for negotiation a few months ago, without publication of a notice, in order to find a technical consultant that will provide services for the maturation of refugee apartments in Alexandra Avenue. Indeed, the budget for this work is EUR 260,000. The region is already running in one direction. "Athens S.A." how will he participate, since he's already been a consultant? It is part of the objective of this company, Article 2(1), the emphasis on refugees. I wholeheartedly support the fact that "Saint Savva" will be given to the relatives, that there will be room for the relatives to be able to stay. I end up with this. As you can see, I am very brief, Mr President. Athens will not be saved by any company like the company it recommends today. Athens will be saved, only when it elects a mayor, who walks the city on foot or even on a bike, when the Athenian citizens become themselves responsible for their city and when the passers, the passers face the city with respect. I think that none of these three basic prerequisites is currently happening so that Athens can see white light. We will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u64	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirztis, has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u65	It is in the context of what we have discussed in committee and are the following: At the end of the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added. In Article 1(4) of the draft law, the words ‘thirty (30) years’ shall be replaced by ‘five (15) years’. in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the draft law after the words ‘inactive buildings’, the words ‘as well as uncovered spaces between apartments’ are added; in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the draft law after the words ‘indication of the tourist character of the areas’, the words ‘acts to improve accessibility of the urban environment to disabled and reduced mobility’ are added; In paragraph 4 of Article 2 of the draft law, the words ‘Housing and Rehabilitation Studies’ shall be added after the words ‘including improving accessibility for disabled persons and reduced mobility’. In paragraph 4 of Article 2, the last subparagraph of Article 2 is added as follows: THE ‘REFLECTION OF ATHENS S.A.’ applies the provisions of Law 4412/2016 (A'147). It is the law of public procurement to ensure that there is no gap, as we have also told the committee. The first subparagraph of Article 3(1) of the draft law shall also be replaced by the following: ‘1. The Board of Directors of Athens S.A. is seven-member, does not participate in this representative of the employees and consists of: (a) a person of known prestige, scientific training and professional experience on the thematic fields of the company as president and CEO; (b) a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Energy; (c) a representative of the Ministry of Culture and Sport; (d) a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport; (e) a representative of the Municipality of Athens; (f) a representative of the Region of Attica; and (g) the Director of the Hospital "General Anticancer - Agios Savvas". In Article 3(2) of the draft law after the words ‘exclusive employment and’ the word ‘s’ is added. in Article 7, the words ‘3429/05 (A’ 314) as applicable’ are replaced by the words ‘3429/2005’; I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u66	Mr. Amyura, if you're interested, we'll shoot them and we'll give them to you. There was a ready complete plan for the renewal of refugees in collaboration with the Technical Chamber with the then Mayor of Athens. A programme contract had been signed. The Technical Chamber had made the plans. The then Minister, Mr. Souflias, had financed the study. The Municipality of Athenians took the plot of TEI on Nayarinos street to become a park above and underground parking underneath. This was all delivered to my successor since 2010 and they've been in a drawer. Mr. Amyura, if you're interested, I can give you a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u67	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u68	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure you're one of the few in here, having been mayor, who you can hear, perhaps more from all of us, about what we're talking about right now. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to comment on the current draft law on the refreshment body, I would like to briefly mention the situation that already exists in the city of Athens. There is no doubt that similar metropolitans are timeless development and attraction, particularly in the tertiary sector and contribute decisively to social and economic development. As a general rule, their centres are the privileged business receptors, with what this means to the general urban burden, because Athens, and I would say specifically and specifically areas such as Omonia and several others, has come to be characterized by severe deterioration and decline in recent decades. According to a survey of "Internationality" despite the fact that over 60% of the centre’s buildings were built before 1960, their old age probably did not constitute any problem, if they were well maintained, if they were to meet the modern requirements and if they had any better aesthetics. The same can be said of some neighbourhoods and regions where, in fact, the need for intervention and replication at many levels is given so that, in addition to other vital public spaces, vital public spaces can offer a variety of uses. Of course all this was basically ignored by previous PASOK - New Democracy governments, whose responsibilities for the not-good state of Athens are not small. It's not the Municipality of Athens and the local government. It is up to the decisions and non-assistance of the governments of each of them to the mayors and rulers of the cities. While we would expect these issues to be much more serious and even more serious, and even the current government in good cooperation with the First and Second Degree Administrations, to succeed and speed up implementation of solutions in the interests of the people, this plan for the regeneration of Athens is coming to us for other things. No matter how many times one reads it, no one sees sincere concern and does not find true care and reasonable solutions to problems. The only thing that he finds, unfortunately, is that he is a model of curiosity, without a trace of serious work, with a statement of real municipal level and, of course, without the minimum scientific support, simply written to safeguard local communities' responsibilities and valuable resources. If we ask ourselves why, on a matter which has been in the hands of the Athenians for decades, they are deceiving even a few hours of consultation or study, the answer is certainly not given by the responsible rapporteur of the SYRIZA, who at second reading said: "There was a weakness in consultation, which I believe was based on the overemployment of the ministers proposing the bill." In other words, we have also heard this unlikely, namely that the ministers have a lot of work to do to do what they are here and cannot take time for proper preparation and diligence of the draft laws which they themselves are proposing. The truth is the recommendation in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this body. It did not result from consultation with elected officials of the government or citizens, but it was a desire of the two Ministers, in order for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to create a shell, a state-owned intervention tool on the property market, which now seems to be promising to many of these years of the crisis. Now because, of course, this House is here, they have also had to put forward a number of arguments on the so-called necessity and feasibility, of course, adding the necessary heaviness, such as the ones mentioned in the explanatory statement. And I quote: "Athens S.A." claims to act as a final-coordinating centre." Second, "Athens S.A." is therefore an operational centre, a task force of special mission." Of course, when the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is not even able to carry out a simple project, that of the online ticket, and it is hard for at least eight months for all fellow citizens, statements like the above abundant laughter can cause us. If a well-meaning party believes that the government with this unnecessarily inappropriate ECHO is likely to have some good intentions, then Article 2(4)b comes along, reassuring that, apart from the possibility of hundreds of recruitments, the other perhaps more important but also more desirable reason is the planned executions and awards of projects and, of course, they promise. If there is a man who hopes that all of this will be done in accordance with rules and regulations, there is also paragraph 2 of that article, on the basis of which ‘ATHENA S.A.’ may derogate from any other provision. In other words, it effectively relieves SYRIZA officials of all concerns about some things, such as keeping legality, and reminding us that in the country of SYRIZANEL, the laws are not an obstacle to their plans. It is characteristic, as it appeared from the hearing of the bodies, that almost no one supported the bill. On the contrary, all concerned have risen since the first day and not unfairly, Minister, since the rest of these are very strange. Firstly, as I said before, the municipal authority of Athens is systematically ignored and cancelled, conferring serious responsibilities on the appointed members of the new body who will act without accountability, since all kinds of derogations are allowed. This will no longer be the decision by the public and the elected administration of the municipality or region on local affairs but the employees of SYRIZA. Secondly, for fifteen years, and put the individual commander of the "Savvas" hospital will be a member of the D.C. the company even after the reconstruction work of Alexandra Avenue refugees has been completed, which may in any event have a say. For the rest, however, it should be better for his home, for example by finding some way, that there should be no removals of expensive medical equipment from hospital premises, as happened last year. I'm figuring out in the Minutes to refresh your memories.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u70	The post where is it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u71	The post is from "KATHMERINI", if I'm not mistaken. Is it a part?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u72	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u73	If it were from 'SYNEY', that is, you would agree. All right, Minister! Thirdly, despite our repeated remarks, Minister, and even though you said in the legislative improvement that the committee will be seven - I have not yet seen all the corrections you have made - and there will be the executive of St. Savvas as President and CEO, you have not yet told us how much money it will take. As you have also not told us and how many others will get, because they will clearly not work for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u74	He told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u75	Did he mention funds to the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u76	He said how much they won't get.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u77	So, volunteers, everyone's gonna work?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u78	Let's not have any administrations, let's leave it all in the auto.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u79	You're used to leaving them in the auto. Let's not start the dialogue because you're used to interrupting. Mr. Spirtzi, you admitted to the committee that you would build equivalent bodies in other regions. We must therefore expect that local selfgovernment will be manipulated in this respect throughout the country. Here we go: Fifth, in Article 6 there is a share capital of 50,000 euros, which you understand is inadequate, and it is certain that it will be exhausted before the first meeting is held on the first day of d.d. The secret, however, lies in paragraph 5 of that article, the right, that is to say, that the ministers are allowed to obtain funds from supposedly third parties - we can understand that the third party is referring to local authorities - thus strangling and condemning all relevant work of the municipality or the region. In the committee it was heard seriously that an important factor in the body's resources could also be the expected donations. When such an outrageous statement is made, everyone realizes how little the government is concerned with the essence of the project. Sixthly, there is neither indicative reference to specific projects nor there is any precedent for their implementation, which even sets out certain priorities. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1571 and a special 29, to which we are negative, since it concerns an unrelated subject and is introduced by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which is not even a co-responsible Ministry with yours. We disagree, above all, because we believe that the government is trying to take responsibility so far for the recruitment of staff who will be responsible for the implementation of the programmes. The aim, of course, is to attract party clienteles, through a process which will essentially be controlled by the Minister in question, since the above-mentioned General Secretariat belongs to the Ministries. We disagree, of course, even more, because cases relating to this recruitment process are excluded from the CSCE process. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the city of Athens is also unnecessary. The aims of the new company are already the responsibilities of the municipalities and regions, so it is clear that the government will intervene in self-government, with a arm that will circumvent everything and everything, having nothing to do with concepts such as decentralisation and accountability. Additional obvious objectives are clearly the war of an undetermined number of SYRIZA officials, of course, in view of the fact that elections may also be expected and the award of projects without compliance with the laws, since there will be the possibility of derogations. If the government really wanted to put a order on property issues in Athens, it could, as it were, go further, give more space and power to self-government. He could also engage in public property, which has left or remained closed and untreated or prepared or is occupied by various "convergences" by SYRIZA. Of course, with this data available to us, both as a Union of Centres and personally as an elected MP in Region I of Athens, it is impossible to agree with such a draft law, which in fact introduces to the public life a reasonable amount of derogations from laws. We do not categorically say that we will vote against every article of this House, since it has nothing to offer either self-government or the local community. On the contrary, only problems will be accumulated from the first day of uncontrolled recruitment, uncontrolled expenditure, uncontrolled awards of projects to the two sides, as well as uncontrolled derogations from the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u80	After you vote against the articles, I suppose you will vote against them in the first place. I mention it, to write it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u81	We are also voting against the principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u82	If, Mr Paraskevi, my briefing is correct that you want to speak only on your amendment, then I would ask the Minister to wait three minutes and from your position to present your amendment so that he can answer it or not. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Athens is a very beautiful city and is worldwide known above all as a cradle of democracy. Nevertheless, it has not become a museum of democracy, although the need for its existence is not only an Athenian, it is not only Greek, it is global. I'm going to say something that might sound too much. I would say that it may also be cosmic: that is, we can think of planets with technical works or with beings. But it is difficult to think of other planets with a culture such as democracy and with projects such as those that were built in the context and with the breath of democracy. The idea of establishing a democracy museum is old. He was presented by a group and the President of the Republic of Kostis Stefanopoulos in 2000. Today's President of Parliament incorporated the idea and the project in his programme statements for the Parliament and relatively recently on 17 September 2017 - I imagine most of them would be present - on the anniversary of the democracy that took place here in Parliament, further developed the prospect of establishing a museum of democracy in the country. It has since introduced the thought in order to get it started in the Conference of Presidents, which discussed the subject. If I remember correctly, everyone supported her. After all, I could not imagine a reason for reservation for such an idea. There have been contributions from all parties, from all sides. I remember Mr Cremastinos' ideas, Mr Tragakis' ideas, beyond, of course, those from the government parties. Then, as far as I know, the parliament decided to be the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy. This is something that has started and is planned. The amendment that we have had the honour of tabling - I would like to thank the Ministers for their approval - proposes to add to paragraph 4 of Article 2 of the draft legislation another possibility of targeting the targeting, which is recorded in the village concerned, the possibility of 'ATHENS' being co-chaired with the Parliament and the Foundation of Parliament in order to proceed with the establishment of a museum of democracy. Because this is a simple possibility, simply to integrate into the agency's objectives and to create a treaty, so that it can develop, I really cannot see why there could be a reservation for such an idea, which I think if it goes ahead, would be a worldwide and time-consuming contribution. I believe that no matter how much time it passes, the usefulness of a museum democracy, for education and for the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u84	Mr. Paradise, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u85	Mr President, I shall conclude. That is why I ask for it to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u86	Mr Paradisepoulou, despite the respect I have for you, at the very edge of your speech you have already thanked the ministers who have accepted the amendment. This is, as you can see, parliamentary unethical. Then there was no reason to present it. I gave you the floor first to present it, and I told the Minister before coming down from the Step, to tell us if he would accept it. That's what parliamentary practice says. If she had been accepted in advance, there was no reason to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, I am grateful to you for this lesson. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u88	You realize that's the case. I like being okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u89	I like it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u91	Can I now place myself on the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u92	You don't want to take the floor now? If you want later, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u93	Later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u94	Better now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u95	In practical terms, it will also help in the flow of debate. Because after you two colleagues will speak, one Parliamentary and so on, so that we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u96	All right, Mr. President, I'll speak now. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u97	Now we'd better answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u98	Minister, I give you eighteen, twenty minutes instead of answering the remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'll be a little sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u100	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law which recommends the body for the regeneration of Athens. As there has been an extensive debate in the committees, there is no need for much of what has been said, to be repeated. However, following the debate and in particular the criticisms heard by specific opposition parties, one unfortunately thinks either we discuss another draft law or you live in another city. We are in the Greek Parliament, which is in the center of Athens. There must be a sense of where the citizens of the Municipality of Athens live and what impact it has on the surrounding municipalities, whatever decision we make on the Municipality of Athens. I say this because those of us who were born and grew up in the neighborhoods of Athens and know it and have lived it. I grew up in the Vineyards. The same is true of those who were born and grew up in Hive, Patisia, Guzis, Pangrati, in the center, even worse in Petralon. The situation has not changed tragically. The free spaces have been zero for decades. The only free space in the Vineyards then was the gendarmerie - so we called it the Police School - which doesn't go much people. It's on the edge of the city. This weekend, if these children happen to come out of the urban fabric, the sky looks beautiful to them, because they don't see him in their everyday lives, not even in their school. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We live in an inhuman city where our fellow citizens with disabilities cannot have access either to their homes, if they go out, to the bus stop or nowhere. The same goes for the elderly. The same goes for those who go somewhere with a wheelchair. In schools there are no decent spaces or breaks. Children don't make a bike, as Amyras says, and they don't play. Their hearings don't relax for a minute or so. The spokesman of the New Democracy, the Officerial Representation, wondered what the necessity of the bill was. What is the necessity of the bill? This town is amazing, for those who move within Parliament and to Kolonaki Square and Zapeio. That's it. For those who move in this area, there's no need. For the rest, however, there is a need and it is great. Why, he says, were they unable to exploit and serve these needs described in the draft law by the existing structures? Are you asking us? Ask yourself in a mirror, ask the people you were working with in the previous government - Mr. Maniatis was a Minister of Spatial Planning and Environment - ask the Mayor of Athens, whom we see, Mr. Bourras, that you support him with maniac.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u102	Where did you see it? Did you hear his name? I talked about the municipality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u103	Okay, we said you got this convergence, but all right, hide it a little, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u104	I'll take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u105	You should take the floor anytime. It's not a rich account. I say this because you asked us what the account is for Athens and we are not taking powers from the municipality. So let's see what you're supporting. You have told us other things that we are intervening - others have said so - in the self-interest of the Municipality of Athens and we remove critical responsibilities. We ask you to tell us what powers we take from the Municipality of Athens. Tell us one. You're not telling her, you're saying a general crisis. Tell us what responsibilities we remove. You said we're getting resources from the municipalities. But is that how resources are taken from the municipalities? Are you serious? So the donations we say or resources from third parties, do you interpret it as getting resources from local government? How's that gonna happen? Explain it to us, too, to see this magic, how you think. We do, you say, a nomination mechanism. That's what New Democracy says. It's going crazy! The fax of its MPs is still on the right and left for hundreds of appointments, which took place in bodies convicted by the Greek state. And who's, he says, the balance sheet? Mr. Maniotis said it. We'll go to Mr. Maniots. What's the balance sheet? Mr. Maniotis comes from the same place as I come and all these decades this place has made brilliant political figures. It did not refer either to Melina Merkouris, in relation to the work carried out in Athens, and not only to Athens, but also to the preservation of cultural heritage or to Antonis Tritsis. He was reported in 2014 to the government of Samara. And this shows things to the country's progressive world. Are you asking us what the account of the Municipality of Athens is? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u106	Your government, SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u107	You tell us who he is. The wheel in the Constitution that went illegally and couldn't get out? You told us - Mr Bourras said so too - that great work is being done. Where did you see the works in the historic center of Athens? You told us that you were studying a thousand eight hundred abandoned buildings in Athens when you were Minister at the Government of Samaras. Yes, sir. And what did the municipality do for so many years? Not to say that a similar study - Nikitas Kaklamanis said so - has the region done so. All these studies, who's going to gather them together to coordinate these abandoned homes? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u108	Three and a half years, what have you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u109	Let's see and see what's the need for the body that Mr. Bourras has. We'll say a rich account you made in 2014. You abolished the Organisation of Regulatory Athens, the Organisation of Regulatory Thessaloniki and the Ioannina Regulatory Organisation. You abolished the OPCW that was supervising the register. You abolished the EAW that had not completed its work, because the EAW to complete its work had to unify other archaeological sites, the Holy Street, the Olympian Doos Columns, the Athena Street - a pity that Mr. Kaklamanis left - and had a lot of work to do. You forget, Mr. Buras forgets it and says we're making anonymous companies. Yes, sir. I remember that amazing company you had made, Mr. Bourra, along with Mr. Maniotis, that coastal front. You did not tell us the rich work he had, as many years as you were government, who he had hired in what way. For what we committed ourselves to in committee and we commit ourselves publicly to doing so already. In legislation, we go with the law of public procurement. This body belonging to the law of the ECJ cannot do what it wants, as you call it. But it's good to tell us - and let's delay a bit, it doesn't matter - how many of you were hired to these companies I'm telling you. To answer what was happening with Rethink Athens. You can answer these offers, the donations made to the Greek State, where they are, who assessed them, if you applied them, if the Municipality of Athens accepted them, the region, in which democratic process, what happened. What about those fireworks that were spending millions of euros on figurines? Nothing. He asked what was going to happen with Alexandra, namely what was going to happen with refugees, announced by the Prime Minister on his visit to the relevant ministry. This body will quite simply implement what Nikitas Kaklamanis had agreed before as Mayor with the Technical Chamber, when the study had been carried out, when we were talking about the necessity of hosting relatives of the patients of the anticancer. Let us say that we are accepting the amendment tabled by the MPs, because there must also be a Museum of Democracy and a Museum of Asia Minor Hellenism, which do not exist, as we talk about refugees in Alexandra, so that the memories of the city, that is to say, the bullets from December to the refugee buildings in Alexandra, become a green space where children in the area do not see any grass, not a tree, for those who know the Vineyards, and much more. Because two days ago the former President of the TEE, Costas Liaskas, left, said that for decades we had been discussing the integration of communal uncovered spaces in order to deal with the alienation in the neighbourhoods of Athens. We were talking about how we could make structures so that society could return to the neighbourhoods of Athens. For years we have been talking about the registration of hiking streets and in what state it is, the rooftops and what a mess it is, about the pedestrian roads to be done in the neighborhoods of Athens. In his memory, it is good if anything else that this body can move forward. We have also discussed them in committee. That is why the extension and the amendments tabled have also been made. You are asking us why it should be by way of derogation. There are signs, if we want to do so, which we really must derogate from. If we want to unify the free public spaces and go with the legislation that exists - not by way of derogation - we will never unify them, as they have not been integrated over the last few years. You're asking us what qualifications he's going to be in seven. We've been through it. You said other things that need to be answered. What infrastructure will this body do with? With the infrastructure of all the bodies involved in the board: with the infrastructure of the Municipality of Athens, the Region and the four ministries involved. With this infrastructure. We are neither going to make parallel mechanisms, nor overcoming the Ministries, nor overcoming the Region, nor the municipality, nor to get it resources and responsibilities, as you poorly say. A post was also filed by “KATHMERINI”. We were embarrassed that this post was filed, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u110	Don't listen to that, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u111	No, Mr. Xydakis agrees with what I'm saying. Mr. Xydakis when he was at “Kathemerini” was not so “Kathemerini”. It was serious, and I hope it will come back. Conservative, disagree, but he didn't write much more. It has been said, by the way, that things that touch other legislation, such as what kind of staff we are going to take, have also been heard. Alekos had said Flamouraris and I repeat that this body doesn't need much personal. What he's going to get is by transfers and distractions from the government. Here we go. You ask us why we do not put the President's and CEO's reward from now on - because one is, as was seven years old. Nowhere has that happened. You have a great experience too, you'll know. You have ruled the country forty years. For Christ's sake! But you should have known how the joint ministerial decisions on the remuneration of presidents and directors and members of the administrative boards are now being adopted. There are times when you've been giving gifts, where there were great wages, where, where. Now we've come to the other way. In other words, let's really look for these low wages worthwhile people to enter as CEOs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u112	What wages do you pay to the HICP?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u113	I would like to congratulate you for making the WIDD, which you have addressed with the people you have addressed and with the actions they have taken and have the people who have sent the WIDD.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u114	For the superstition?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u115	Please don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u116	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u117	It's all right with the Bureau, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u118	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u119	Keep going, but look, you're in sixteen minutes. The schedule is for 20 minutes. I would suggest that within the limits of the time available to you to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u120	Okay, I'll finish in two minutes. I am giving one last off the agenda, if you like, because it was raised by Mr Maniotis on the agenda. He talked about three projects that Mr. Kalogrisa's company is substituting, so he revealed, he says, the scandal. It is a project in Florina, the drainage of Dionysus and the Kalloni-Sigrio road axis. These are three works that have been done for your time. You don't know that? Does your place know about him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u122	Yes, sir. This should be recorded. Now let's go to the Patras Tower project, which you didn't have the guts - because you have denounced it about a hundred times - to take your alleged complaints to the prosecutor. We took them. But you want to omit this, you forget, this desolate report of the European Court of Auditors. You want to forget that what you had arranged, namely, with zero discounts, to give the Patras Tower project to the large companies, has not been implemented. That's tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u123	It was declared, and we don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u124	Wasn't it announced? You had arranged for a play to come out. You had arranged for the studies to be done by the concession. You had arranged for there not to be sufficient evidence to all those who wanted to participate. There were subdivisions in quantities, but the work was a piece. As you do not want to understand the crime of 2013, that is to say, to get those pieces of concessions out of concessions. Because if we did not have these discounts, it would simply not be approved by the European Commission, which has been dusting since you gave 1,200,000, 000 more to these projects, according to the European Court of Auditors, every convention that exists from the country. Therefore, Mr Manatis, if you do not know them - which you know them - it is good at last to tell the Greek people the truth. You played for two and a half years that little kitten in the area, if we'll do the Patra - Tower. Every month you made some people wonder. When it was adopted and proceeded, the transparent tenders were carried out, the "Kalograss" project number 4 began. We're giving you this whole project. But you didn't tell us about the other projects. What was happening - and Athens needed -, like the floods and many others that went through Piraeus. Don't you remember them? These works in various municipalities in the country, which were only three study companies, only three construction companies, what administrative courts are canceling one after the other, several years now. Because the'study-building' system, which existed in the previous governments, was a system that went ahead with the setting-up of projects and amended by the law of public procurement, as you know in a few words. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying this: there is no way that we should leave Athens and the urban centres in the mess and in the extinction that others have created. There is no possibility of ripe projects, of mature interventions, such as all that we have discussed and discussed for many years, staying in the drawers and not being exploited. There's no way we're gonna let civilians, especially in metropolitan centres, whether a municipality can do the job or can't do the job. That is why we believe that such a body that coordinates, will help, will go ahead with these decades in Athens, it is necessary. We will support it and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and four teachers - attendants from the High School of Oinos and from the Maniakos Gymnasios Kastorias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the list of speakers. We're starting with Mrs. Olga Kefefaliannis from New Democracy. Mr Karras will follow and then we will go to a parliamentary representative. Two speakers will speak and then one parliamentary representative. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Spirtz has spoken now, I will say that he is now a government. So it is not enough, Minister, to stand up to you. I would like to tell you that after nearly three and a half years of governing SYRIZA - ANEL, the city of Athens, the centre of the economic, political, social and cultural life of the country has been delivered to the decline. Poverty, social inequality, unemployment and all of this is intensified in conditions of increasing violence and lawlessness. In this unprecedented situation of the city's continuing depreciation, the government today responds to the bill for the establishment of a renovation body of the city of Athens. We see it as another attempt by SYRIZA - ANEL to create customer service structures. So simple, so cynical. Ladies and gentlemen, Athens is plunging time over insecurity and abandonment. The city's major problems have increased in recent years, and because of the current government's economic policy, which is based on overcrowding and dismantling the middle class. The business is dramatically shrinking and this testifies to well-known historical commercial roads, entire building blocks and central arteries with closed shops and abandoned buildings. And as if that were not enough, the city has been left as a victim of the provocative absence of those responsible in an unprecedented situation of lawlessness. The public areas of urban greenery, which have been the breath of the city, have now been delivered to immunity with the blessings of the great absentee, your government. It is the new reality of the policy of over-simplification. On the one hand, you will respectfully implement the most important memorandum for the Greek citizen, on the other hand, you will not promote any structured and targeted development policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with the establishment of the company “ANAPPLICATION OF ATHENA”, the responsible political leadership in the vague exhibition of ideas and purpose is evangelizing the coordinated and rapid implementation of renovations in the city of Athens, the improvement of the quality of life, the social cohesion and the economic development of the regeneration areas. All this by way of derogation from any other provision, as you have been legislating for all these years. Always by way of derogation. This is another government firework in the name of serving foreign purposes and disorientation from the real problems of Athenian citizens. Once again, the government chooses to legislate in a vacant way by authorizing a wrong institutional intervention for the historic capital of Greece. You didn't even put the draft law in consultation, gentlemen of the government. You suddenly brought it into the Great Week, apparently considering the severe reactions that will occur. In this context, firstly, you deny institutional dialogue. Secondly, you are bypassing and degrading the institutional role and functioning of local government, which is, moreover, constitutionally regulated. Thirdly, you are applying delimited powers, possibly looking forward to the implementation of resources. Once again, listen to the constitutional limits. Exercise a centralized policy for Athens and look forward to the formation of a landscape where central state control becomes a tool of conduct to keep all sacrifices to power. Ladies and gentlemen, the relevant ministers and authors of the Athens Renovation Bill know very well that in January 2015 the plan for integrated urban interventions for the centre of Athens, the well-known GPA, had been institutionalised. After all, you've almost copied it. The integrated spatial investment programme was also developed on this basis. For all this, funding from European funds has been approved. What, then, is the task of setting up a new body? It is obvious that you are seeking to bring down the particularly serious issue of the necessary interventions to upgrade the city to project level. Only in words remained the heavy plans of the Prime Minister for large-scale interventions in collaboration with the Municipality of Athens that would change the capital. With this bill you want to replace the role of the Municipality of Athens. Produce a law that you will work on in the near future, with another recital in the face of national and self-government elections. After all, you have raised Athens' neural issues on a party agenda. For this reason in your highly written law you did not fail to omit, of course, to anticipate recruitment of staff with indefinite and fixed-term employment contracts to feed your party clientele, as well as work leasing contracts and hired orders to share awards. An unambiguous plan without clear reasoning with a hidden purpose, but it is obvious what it serves exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, today we should defend an integrated urban development plan for the Municipality of Athens in a metropolitan according to European standards. Refreshment projects for Athens should be framed by a single strategy after a wide institutional dialogue involving all relevant actors. It should be a product of consensus and not a confrontation. Instead, you choose the well-known path of fragmentary legacy, which only causes confusion and further overlapping. You refuse to listen, because it is essentially not about finding a real and sustainable solution for the capital. I shall also come to the amendment tabled by the Members, supported by Mr Parapaulopoulos, on the establishment of a Democracy Museum. I would like to inform you here that a museum called the 'Museum of Democracy' has been launched by the then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis in Agios Stratis. In any case, has a sustainability study been carried out on this proposal by colleagues? Who will be the manager? Is it gonna be state? I would like to remind you here that the establishment of museums is governed by the provisions of Article 45 of Law 3028/2002. If the Greek state considers it necessary to establish such a museum, let the House and its Foundation take it, after having consulted the parties and proceed to institutional procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is legislating against the citizens of Athens. We are voting against the logic of the sloppy fragmentation, the absence of consensual dialogue, the political substitution of the role of local government by a state of over-concentration. Athens needs effective solutions to the big problems, free of small logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u127	Thank you. Mr Karras has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u128	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am very concerned about this bill. I'm reading it, I'm looking at it again, and I'm asking a question. Can it work? Can it last? I told the committee that I judged this to be still alive. Why? First of all, if you want to, it's not equipped with resources. I do not judge whether it is necessary or not at the moment. I see if it can work. It's not equipped with resources. A EUR 50,000 chapter, which will be allocated in the first few days for the start-up of operations. From there? Are we staying in state funding? Will the state budget have the opportunity? Are we staying at the donations of good foundations or donors? Will they want to? I don't think that's how the regeneration of the center of Athens can work. I have, however, listened very carefully to Minister Spirtzi saying a few things that have made me more troubled. He said he wouldn't leave the city's town centers at the mess. He said that he does not want the government to leave the people hailed and in this context further interventions will work in the future to give people a breath. But in the future, or today? Next question. Let's stay in Athens for a while. What are we living in the center of Athens? I've lived for too many years in the center of Athens, I've worked in the center of Athens, and today I don't recognize it. Of course, there may be time-consuming responsibilities, but today I do not recognize it. Well, let's say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u129	Maybe...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u130	Minister, tell me later. You'll have the floor if you want. I've lived, as I told you, in the center of Athens. So what do I see? First of all, the major issue of crime. Whatever regenerating to attempt, whatever intervention to attempt, crime has not yet appeared to be dealt with or at least to be intended to deal with. You will allow me, Mr President, to say something else that escapes the bill. Last Monday I had an interesting debate with Mr Kontonis on the occasion of a timely question here in this Chamber. And I raised this question as to whether exceptions are to be made to Mr Paradise's well-known law, so that serious crime does not enjoy the advantage of dismissal from prisons. Unfortunately - and it was written throughout the press - the government will consider extending this law in September. So will this help the urban centres? When we have a problem that doesn't seem to be handled? When we seem to have a problem with the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which has shown a deficit at the moment? I don't want to stay in these. This is not the purpose of the law. But I am making a point. But I'm on my way. I once again invoke what Mr Spirtz said: will we leave the citizens free? No, he says, we'll help them. So the question arises automatically. Are we just going to solve citizens' problems with a refreshment company? You are right to bring a proper proposal, which we will have a positive attitude in the next few days. The metro tickets are advertised, it is advertised that bars will be closed and the goal of collecting will be achieved. I will, however, set a parameter which, in my view, is of great value. Where the metro stations are connected underground under avenue and are currently being used by elderly, by mothers with wheelchairs to avoid passing like the Mediterranean Avenue, should the Ministry of Infrastructure be provided with a provision to maintain this accessibility? It will have to find a solution, because if it goes through the avenues of the elderly, mothers, there is a risk that, because of rapid traffic, there will be accidents - and we have - as far as those who try to cross the opposite bank are concerned. I shall therefore put this matter to my colleagues as well. I'll bring it up with a question in the next few days to see the government's intentions. I move on to the next issue, in relation to metropolitan Athens. Five million are here accumulated and we're trying to live. But how do we live? We need an environment, Mr Dimitras, which you support. Do we have interventions in the environment of Athens in recent years? I'll give an example. We have the perimeter tumors. We have the mountainous tumors of Attica. What have we done for the past few years? And I'm talking to the House, the parties and the government. What happened? We just waited last summer to see where the fire would reach, whether the wind's time would change, stop nature. Example two, recent. Deputy Mayor of Athens. He went and put the man under civil protection a pyramid, a house, to go to night the volunteer to see if he'll get a fire or not. He was brought to court from the office! I don't want to mention who the municipality is. Here, he's close to us. He was brought to court and afflicted by man, because he was told that the Forest Code allows the firehouse to be only sixteen square feet wide. And she grew up, she was older and accused of trespassing on public land. Is that how we're gonna turn out the fires? Is that how we solve the problems? Next example, to see whether citizens are protected or not. NATURA protected areas policy. The President of the Republic even referred to it today by Symi and said it was Europe's borders. I respect it and support it. But what did the SYRIZA - ANEL Government do for Attica? What did he do? On 20 February 2018, he took a deadline. How did he get the deadline? It reformed the legal framework for management bodies in protected areas, again incorporated the Hymittos, but did not integrate Penteli. This is an issue, if Penteli, which is the trunk and center of mountain tumors... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would also like to have little tolerance with colleagues' permission. Incorporated Parnitha, incorporated Hymittos and the wider area and left Pendeli outside. How are we going to restore Penteli who's been hurt by the dimes all these years? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't complain, my colleague. You know the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u131	There's a special decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u132	I answer you right away, Mr. Xydakis. A special decree of 1968 which characterises it as a landscape of particular natural beauty and in 1988 delimits it. I would ask, then, what has happened since 1988? I'm waiting for an answer. What's happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u133	Forests don't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u134	Mr. Carras, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President, but you understand. They're causing me, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u136	Don't wait for an answer now. You continue your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u137	I shall be brief so that I do not accept the President-in-Office's protests. If we gather all this as a valuation. I want to hear if she's positive? Oh, no. As will not be positive and the valuation of a still-born public body, who comes to acquire a title, will be assumed to give a rejuvenation course to the historic center of Athens, without solving other problems. Mr President, I have had a great deal to say in this area, but unfortunately time forbids me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u138	We should change the Rules of Procedure then, Mr. Carras. Seven minutes' time is predicted, what should we do? The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I was told by Janus, the Roman god of aggressions and transfers, to hear the Minister, Mr Spirtzi. Obviously it didn't come to my mind because that god was depicted in such readings as doors, bridges and various infrastructures, so it was his responsibility. It came to my mind because the particular god was depicted with two faces, one person usually bearded and the other shaved, to render the pair of contradictions, according to Roman tradition, moon - sun, old - youth. So Mr. Spirtzis was one of the Spirtzis - PASOK vs. Spirtzi - SYRIZA and backwards. In other words, we heard a minister beat what happened in the past years from New Democracy and PASOK, when he was a protagonist of that period, when he was a preconceived PASOK official, President of the TEA, an interlocutor of governments and on the other hand conquered his old self as SYRIZA Minister, saying what happened all these years. I would therefore say that at least in this Chamber there should be a little, I would say, a political shame, in the good sense, because everyone has a path and cannot be forgotten. Now, as far as the draft law and topicality are concerned. The Minister is missing, but I think he will be transferred. You know, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes life plays strange games. It was in 2015 when the then construction group of Mr. Kalogrisa, while the banking system collapsed in the middle of capital controls, received EUR 70 million from a specific bank, namely from Attica, although he was already semi-declared. The same group, at the same time pushed the bank to continue receiving loans. The same group even tried to obtain a guarantee letter from the same bank with a guarantee, as you will remember, grassland, in order to buy a television licence. The same group, in the name of healthy competition, was divided into the Patras to Tower road corridor and by the miracle took about 50% of this project. The same group finally declared a few days ago inability to carry out a series of important projects of around 100 million euros. And, unfortunately, that's not what's more interesting, ladies and gentlemen. The most interesting thing is that, by the devilish coincidence, all these projects passed to another construction group, namely the "AKATOR", a group that, in 2015, the same government of SYRIZA considered as the epitome of interlocutory and, as you will remember, at least in my ears, the cries of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, accused of both Mr. Theodorakis and Potami as the "syrian horse" of the interlocutory, as a last alleged embezzlement of the system in order to prevent SYRIZA from coming to power, and finally we see that even that your communication bubble broke out and, unfortunately, there seems to be a smell of at least a strange case. And at least I would expect Mr Spirtzi to tell us whether this development is jeopardising the other contractors undertaken by the Kalogris Group, especially as regards the Patras Tower motorway, where he has been reduced by more than 50%. And I would like to ask the government straight away, as Mr Flambury is here, if you will proceed, Minister, in compliance with the contractors' obligations with the Kalogris Group when he cannot carry out smaller projects and when, according to the European Commission, 50% of projects have been made unjustly large reductions which in practice cannot be observed. I expect explanations either from you or Mr Spirtzi. I'm coming to the bill. Gentlemen of the government, with the creation of a body you are trying to respond to a genuinely existing problem and to a necessity, to regenerate degraded areas of the capital. First of all, I accept your good intention. But I would like to ask you and wait for an honest answer. Do you think that such a serious project, which, apart from the government's ministers, can not go ahead with it? Can it proceed when they express, in the best of cases, reflections and in the worst of their strong disagreement with all the productive and institutional bodies that have come to the committee and which you are supposed to discuss and when they express their opposition and their concerns about the whole of the opposition parties? Do you think, then, that this body, when the physically competent mayor, the Mayor of Athenians, describes him as an institutional miscarriage? And of course you cannot hope that in a year and a half from now there will be a mayor perhaps more friendly to SYRIZA, because that is more than a godly desire. So it is all the essence of the arguments that I have heard from Minister Flavourari that this body is intended to coordinate the irresponsibles. If I remember correctly, that's what you said, Minister. I therefore ask: is it recommended to make use of the municipality's property coordinated? I think I'm the one who's being held in charge. Is action strengthening newly developed and innovative entrepreneurship, the solidarity economy, the promotion of the tourist character of the regions or cultural upgrading actions? Is the programming purpose of the restoration of preserved buildings and monuments, in fact, by way of derogation from any other provision? Question: Which provision or service do you want to bypass? The archaeological law or the Central Archaeological Council? Is it, finally, a coordination of the use and absorption of Community funds and public resources? I think, Minister, we speak Greek and we speak English well. Such coordination does not constitute those interventions that I mentioned earlier. You know very well and in general that we have sufficient institutional tools to manage the issues of the city, whether they are at ministries' level or, of course, at the level of self-government. But what we do not have and, unfortunately, this bill does not correct is one intervention on four specific issues: the hierarchy of priorities, the mechanisms of effective social consultation, so that the necessary social consensus, adequate studies and adequate resources can emerge. And unfortunately, none of these four issues are solved or still not affected by the bill. I shall conclude with the amendments very briefly. In Amendment Nos 1571 and 29, I believe that what the Minister invoked is obviously not so innocent. On the one hand, it seems that the provision may not change or widen the scope of the programmes, but certainly what it does, Minister, is to redistribute resources and roles. In the way it is formulated it does not simply leave the OAED to withdraw competences, but it gives the General Secretariat the power to draw up projects of a public nature, with the municipalities or regions or even public services which are not the main objective of combating unemployment. In addition, not only do you redistribute the roles, as I said before, not only can you draw resources from the OAS, but you are actually concentrating the whole process of a programme, from its conception to its implementation, on a single authority or person. If, of course, we combine this with the fact that the recruitment process no longer falls under any legality checks by the AACC, I think it is reasonable to conclude that it is very easy to adopt opaque procedures for the selection of staff. So we, Minister, have serious reservations because of the impeccable political life of the government, which does not allow us to support this amendment. As far as the amendment under number 1575 and number 30 are concerned, Mrs Kefaliannis has said so, and she has covered me. I will only observe a phrase by Mr Paradise, who said that it is a universal need, is not just international and pan-European. You have a coma in SYRIZA lately with the aliens, but as you saw with the Greek Space Organisation, you finally didn't come out in good shape. So I would like you to see this amendment again. Of course, we will be negative from there and I am waiting for your remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u140	Thank you Mr. Kefaliannis and the economy of time. Mr. Karanastassis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u141	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position, I should like to outline briefly what the situation in Athens is today and what we want to achieve with this bill. In the years of the crisis, we have discovered a bit of a spectacle, that is true, the dictatorship of the markets, which, in the name of profit, even ignores human misery. It is the very operation of the market without rules, to which the previous governments have explicitly left the strategic, urban and spatial planning and which has led Athens in the past fifty years to its present chaos. Today Athens is the only European capital that did not maintain its cultural heritage. It is the only European capital which on the sidewalks cannot be accessed either by the residents of the regions or, of course, by people with disabilities. The absence of green spaces makes it from the most problematic cities. I note that today there is a maximum of one square metre of green per inhabitant in Athens, when in the respective European metropolitan areas the relative proportion amounts to nine to ten square metres per inhabitant. The lack of safe routes for walking and bikes, as well as the aesthetic deterioration of the center make the city miserable and depressing. The ageing of buildings in the center of Athens, many of which require aesthetic regeneration, but mainly - and note this - static restoration and upgrading of their energy behaviour, makes many of these buildings uninhabited, with dramatic repercussions on the life and commercial and professional activity of the citizens. Thus, the main objective of the agency under which it is set up is to support, promote and accelerate all planning of interventions by stakeholders, as both Ministers have rightly said. The new body, as has been repeatedly stressed at the meetings of the committee responsible, does not claim to replace functions and responsibilities either of the Ministries, of the Municipality or of the Region. He claims to compose them, coordinate them and put them in direct action. I want to make a point here. We all know what the head of department is and what the head of department is. It is not possible that the management services, which are either ministries, the municipality or the regions, do not perform the projects. And we need to make that clear. The government, by drawing up the bill we are discussing, aimed at self-evidently, that is to say, the coordination of the views of the decisions and actions of all the bodies involved with greater or less responsibility for the planning of the capital, at the level of the Municipality of Athens initially and then at the level of a metropolitan municipality. In this draft law, therefore, it creates a flexible body, a body in the form of an anonymous company that will undertake to carry out the difficult task - as is demonstrated by everyday life - this work. At the relevant meetings of the committee, but also in today's debate, consideration has been given to whether such a body is needed if the rights of local government are being circumvented, if the government is made through this body as a contractor, contractor, scholar, if, if... By adding a few "if" to the reflection, I would ask myself: What if he had thrived on the regulator of the late Antonis Tritsis, if the archaeological sites had been unified, if it had been refreshed by the University or Stadium, if... The answer is obvious: We would live in a different Athens. Because that's not all. First of all, because - as the wise people say - they speak a lot of cocks, they are late to dawn. We have succeeded - because it is a success - in the same case at best involving two, three or more entities, the Municipality, the Region, two - three ministries. And as the act shows, they have never been able to work together on a joint programme. On the other hand, each body has a particularly enthusiastic influence on the ownership of the designs resulting from their institutionalized responsibilities, resulting in the wreck of all the good ideas that have been formulated so far. At the same time, the micro-political purposes of both the representatives of the government and the governments concerned have occasionally led to the announcement of studies and projects, together of course with the necessary mattresses, without ensuring the synergies provided for by the allocation of powers and the necessary resources. The result of these distortions is the announcement that the papers and the mattresses will stay in the showcases of the institutions. And the citizens of Athens when they manage not to get upset, have fun with the comedy unfolding in front of their eyes. Finally, the economic crisis of the last decade, which led to the deterioration of the centre of Athens, contributed to the removal of residence, the weakening of economic, commercial and cultural activities, and the simultaneous increase in unemployment, infraction and in crime, unfortunately creating a vicious circle involving the restoration of the problem. I would therefore expect, ladies and gentlemen, that a bill which sets the objective of bringing this grim situation to light for the largest municipality in the country at least to be welcomed. Instead, it proved, unfortunately, not for the first time, that the service of any micro-participatory purposes counts more than an attempt to regain Athens' lives. Opposition to the opposition and trial of political opponents, without sound analysis and documentation, without a democratic confrontation, which could lead to some composition and quality improvement. On a few points where there were constructive proposals from the expedited Ministry, the government, in proving its good reflexes, accepted the proposals of the colleagues of the opposition. And if for the New Democracy and Democratic Partnership colleagues one can understand their refusal to support or make a constructive stand in the debate on the bill since they have to support the disastrous practices of their governments in the past, it is to me that it is worth noting the negative attitude of the other parties. I want to make a report. Mr. Maniotis said that proposals have been made over the years for the Regulatory, the Integrated Urban Intervention Plan, the CFP, in 2014. Before 2014, what happened? And I will say another thing: the JESSICA programme has been mentioned. JESSICA is a programme - because they charge it to us - which was also in the programming period 2007-2013 and is a programme in the form of resources returned to integrated urban development plans involving banks and which is a low loan from the ERDF. What projects have been carried out all these years, from 2007 to 2013, since the governments then? I will set an example: none. In the Region of Central Greece, the JESSICA project had 40 million in 2007-2013. It is an example which I think is too important to mention. From 2007 to 2013 40 million were absorbed EUR zero! So let it be, ladies and gentlemen. The endurance of citizens is exhausted and those who deny them the right to life in a human environment will collect their endeavors! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u142	Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with the bill we are debating this evening. Of course I have been born and grown up in Piraeus, the prefecture of Athens, which I love, but I also love Athens. They're interconnected with emotions. However, let us not forget that Athens is the capital of the Greek state and I think it is the front window of our country. We don't want to, everyone's going through Athens. Those who move daily in the center at the pace of everyday life forget the meaning and history of our city. Athens is one of the oldest capitals of Europe, it is a city that is not at all random, because this is where democracy, philosophy and culture were born. Unfortunately, modern Athens is not worthy of its past, and that is why we, modern Greeks and the governments of the past are responsible. In the 1960s, when EPE was a government, how many buildings, historically, were demolished to make the houses, and now we've regretted it? In fact, the late Constantine Karamanlis had said that it is okay, we have so much. I remember that because it was a surprise to me. We were shaking up the buildings to make the rivalry. In today's image of the capital, apart from abandoned buildings, which are not only aesthetically bad, there are neoclassical buildings, which break down and new buildings made of grey cement, making the environment suffocating. We have no green at all. In this environment we are moving all the residents and the picture of millions of tourists passing through the center of Athens is a chaos and only the Acropolis is the one that looks beautiful. Historical signs, historical paths and everything else have been destroyed. The center is no pedestrian-friendly at all. In addition, I can say that it is hostile to disabled people too. Our capital is very low and lags behind the other European capitals. One of the many programs to be implemented is the "Athens Refreshment S.A." and will be about the design and creation of bicycle roads. All over Europe there are bicycles, which they normally use. You leave your bike and take the other one. That is what is happening in the Netherlands and elsewhere. We don't have one. This will help limit the exhaust gas, but we're too far back on it. All these years, cyclists have been in trouble. Accidents have also been made because there is a total lack of infrastructure. Another point of the bill that gave me pleasure is that one of the main objectives is the renewal of the region of refugees on Alexandra Avenue. Refugees have a huge history, because they were built to house the refugees of the Asia Minor disaster, but unfortunately the Greek state abandoned them. During the Olympic Games, while giving so much money to take steps, etc., they covered them with a huge cloth, so they wouldn't look. You thought it was practical to cover it up. You covered them so they don't look. Very good. This policy has been a policy of years where you've been hollowing, all governments, things underneath the carpet so they don't look. I would like to address my colleague, Mrs Kefalayannis, who said 'You, what you have done in three and a half years'. What have you been doing in forty years? I was born here in Piraeus, I am a baby and lived Athens, I came from no province. Nothing has happened at all. Something was made in the fun, and the rest was demolished. What have you been doing for so many years? You're not answering me. Overall, the center of Athens with the renovation plan that will be implemented will completely change the sense of man when he moves and improves the environment in which we live and spend most of our life and everyday life. This change will definitely bring enormous benefits to tourism, since tourists will not choose to stay only in Athens to see the Acropolis and then head to the islands to avoid seeing this chaos and the awkwardness that exists. Only Melina Mercury tried to save something in the keeper and took out some laws and gave the keeper to get it, by swapping. I wasn't a MP at the time, but I was watching. My nephew had taken a house like this and built it, reconstructed it and gave the owner another one that he would build. We will also be able to have huge benefits in the commercial world. The commercial world will be helped, because it will become the center, which will have the movement it needs. All the things that are being done for the regeneration of Athens I consider necessary in a framework of a public limited company, i.e. without the acronyms of the completely state mechanism. But, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand you. When you say something is going to be private, you yell. When something happens, controlled by the government, you're shouting again. So how's it gonna be? It's either private or public. I can't understand you at all. Finally, as far as the reactions from New Democracy are concerned, I cannot understand them at all. Also, on the side of the Municipality of Athens, the government allegedly comes to replace the municipality and that this has no reasonable background, this is again out of reality. So you prefer to leave Athens, as it is today, instead of making it the capital of Europe, can I say? So you can imagine Athens, which was the cradle of civilization, coming to this mess? There's something to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u144	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Scandalides, has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis will then be given the floor. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following this whole debate, and I am really bruising, because it seems that the political life of the country, the parties, the MPs, all of us have a selective memory, and we are using appropriate examples of where we are trying to formulate a controversy which does not really make sense. I will say something, seeing Mr Flamouraris: because, Minister, I spend every day under your house, I know how hard you have been the two times that have tried to burn you down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u146	Three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u147	Three. I see that, after four years, your protection is - quite rightly and rightly - so strong. And honestly, I say that this is the proof, after four years of government, that there is no change in the center of Athens. I am talking about the obligation of the state and not of the Municipality of Athens, because the Municipality of Athens does not have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u148	I'll answer you for staying in the same neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u149	You don't have to. You tell your own opinion. I have no problem, as you can see, Mr Xydakis, because you will answer other than what I am about to say now. I want to judge the whole of this policy, which comes with this bill. First of all, the basic principle governing the government's legislative and political interventions in relation to the institutions and the functioning of the state is the working concept of a pale-communist type, namely the occupation of institutions, their use as a receptor of party customers in each bill and it is also a suffocating control. This principle informs you that it not only reproduces the negative features, but dismantles and marginalizes the institutions. Of course, this is a profoundly reformative and conservative attitude. There is also - and I recognise it - a permanent and time-consuming wound which has been accompanying governance practices for years. Not that the previous governments did not have it, but it is a wound that took huge proportions in the practice of this government. It is about the resumption of the state and the institutions. Before the changes take place, we announce their devotion. When we voted for the district government, you voted against it. When we voted for the Kappastriya, you would cut him off. When we voted on the 'Kalikaratis', you would again cut him off. Today, Mr. Spirtzis came and told us about Melina, Tritsi. I will also tell him Laliotis and Simitis with the great works of the 1990s, who have changed the life of the Lecanopedio and who then defended them with great fanaticism. I mean, this is a hypocritical attitude and a selective memory. Here is the tactic: First, when we come to things, we accept the institutions, the changes that we have made and which we have denounced at a previous stage and then, instead of enlarging them, to cover the gaps that exist and to complete them, to weaken them and to marginalize them and, ultimately, to use them, not for the work they have to accomplish, but for our opportunistic party interest. I say, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is a typical example of the application of this concept and practice. It removes from the prime development responsibility of the Municipality of Athens, which is refreshing and urban urban urban interventions. I would like to remind you that the first competence given in 1981 to the "Drug Mayor of the garbage and cemeteries" was that of the replications, which enabled Dimitris Bey to change all the neighborhoods of Athens. I would also like to tell you that this bill is handy, on the knee, in the absence of local government - at first sight, I was afraid - and in the absence of the Minister of the Interior. Of course, when I tried to understand what Mr Skourletis was doing with the infamous new reform, who is about to bring us to the House, I am pretty sure he would not object to this bill. It is another structure to manage funds, to appoint executives, to do jobs, in other words. It undermines the wider intervention announced by the Prime Minister for the renewal of Alexandra Avenue to a refugee contractor. In addition, there is a series of major interventions, such as olive groves, the Marios Field, Goudi, and all that is done against them, but we still use olive groves to lay down what is left over us, and we let things evolve in the way they are evolving, with the sole responsibility of the government, because the municipality has no means to impose regimes on such large, local, if you like, locations. It can't be the Municipality of Athens. Give him the means to do it. This was the next move of the 'CALL'. Make metropolitan Athens. Not take his responsibilities and you do the job. It's the city's business. I come to the polypathic center of Athens. A place of impeccable, violating, uncontrollable. A place where regions are seized, structures dissolve, with its people, residents, entrepreneurs, creators, intellectuals, enclaves and prisoners, dedicated to fatalism and despair. A place where immigrants drag and stack, because it is impossible for the government to draw up a dispersal and proportional distribution plan, a place where abandoned and occupied buildings become the outbreaks of abused and inhumane, a place where the safety of citizens' lives and property is under constant risk. However, bills had been prepared and closed in the miners' drawers. It doesn't matter whether it happened in 2014, as others have done before, what I said before. The inconvenience to her majesty! I claim that if the Municipality of Athens had the money and the possibilities, it would make the job much better than your company. I believe it. If he had the opportunity after the break-up - mistakenly - of the Municipal Police to build, broaden the institution, give it powers, he would have better local police than the Ministry of Public Order does, at least for the tasks of the Municipal Police. I believe that if you had worked together on these decrees, whether they were concerned with the Integrated Urban Interventions and Integrated Country Investment Plan, or with the Athens Regulatory Plan, in cooperation with the OPS, whether it were the research programme of the University of Thessaly or all the previous ones which had been set up, they would have gone ahead if you corrected them next step, and if you would have extended them, because you would have to make another public service, which will be solved. is he supposed to coordinate and coordinate this process? So I believe that the uncontinuation is in her majesty and that instead of taking these great steps that she had to take, she gave a mountain and she gave her mind. How far are you from the needs of the times? Very much. The future - you are watching them because you are working with the European institutions - belongs to the Europe of the regions and cities. It belongs to a self-government and structure of state, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity to the citizen. The presumption of competence rests with self-government, is based on the principle of subsidiarity of institutions and proportionality of responsibilities, and of course, with all that protectionist framework, which requires the municipalities or regions to exercise this policy, which is theirs exclusively and is not the government - and not ours - by our own responsibilities - of the co-responsible powers to take the money, to give them nominal powers and, at the same time, not to take anything and to blame them for not being able to do the job. But how are they gonna do the job? It's incomprehensible! Therefore, instead of making an implementing law of 'KALIKARATIS', it comes 'KLITHENIS' - euphemistically 'KLISTHENIS', what I read in the consultation at least - in three hundred and twenty-four pages to dismantle the TATs and turn them into a micro-group transaction site. It needed an article to do what the three hundred and twenty-four pages of 'CLISTEN' say. Instead of giving the resources and expanding the responsibilities of the Municipality of Athens and organising Attica in a modern metropolitan area, we remove every possibility of conducting a development policy in the area of its responsibilities. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the tripartite that guides you is: we cut off and sew in our measures, and we win any municipalities, we share jobs directly, without mediation and without principle, and we win no vote and we continue to promote new state structures, whether or not we do anything more than that, which could be done by the normal operators who would have undertaken development responsibility. I think it's a bill that offers nothing and just exposes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u150	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken a rather productive course in the Committee on Production and Trade. I say this because several of the remarks made by both the opposition parties and by the MPs of the coalition were incorporated into the bill and improved it. I think that the limits for the co-formulation of a bill, which is given by consultation and processing in committee, have been reached. Good use has been made. I think that none of the remarks left, both from the Qualifications and from the other parties. The comments on the bill were incorporated and we see it in a much better situation. Now, on the objections raised by colleagues, I would like to correct Mr Kefaliannis, who made a criticism of the right and decent tone on the bill. He said his point of view. But he has an inaccuracy. Neither archaeological law nor any other legislation is violated by the company's founding law on the Urban Renewal of Athens. We have barely incorporated our remarks from all the parties in the committee and are now in the bill. These are, to avoid any impressions being made. Everything is in accordance with the laws, by way of derogation from bureaucratic procedures. What governs public procurement and public works also applies to this public limited company. There have also been some comments which are not directly related to the company - I will come to the company - which I would like to give some answers to. There is a wave of danger, a grim picture of Athens and the historic center, that we lived in a paradise, in a clean, safe, peaceful city, with beautiful buildings for at least ten, twenty, thirty years and now you can't release, that something has happened between Bronx and Harlem. Because I have lived here since 1976, my whole life here, in Athens and indeed, always within the limits of the small ring and the First Election Region of Athens, I would like to say that Athens has changed from 1989 to 1990. Then he began taking metropolitan, metropolitan in the south, with the first large migratory waves. The anthropology's changed, the composition's changed. We've heard other speeches. We saw other races and other skin colors. I think that as a whole it was an enrichment of the Greek society, no matter how we look at it. It also changed from the land use from the housing areas that became shop zones. Changed the silk mill, changed the neighborhood of Psilri, changed Plaka. Many things have changed over many years. That's the way cities, the big cities. Athens until the 1970s and 1980s was a Balkan capital and a glorious city. Since the 1990s there has been a metropolitan city, and so is the metropolitan city has had its glow, its wealth and its own metropolitan problems. There is no greater decline than a crime. If you ask for the evidence from the Ministry of Citizen Protection - I sought them months ago, on the occasion of a verbal retaliation I had with Mr. Javarra, when the lawyer was killed - you will see that life crimes in 2015 and 2016 are far less in number. I do not even claim for a moment that the arithmetic reduction in life-crime shows directly a reduction in crime. Mostly, he cannot record the subjective sense of citizens. But the evidence doesn't tell any truths. Let's look for them. Let's find them. The second thing I want to say to my fellow Members, on the basis of what has been said, is this. The bill was accused of overriding or misappropriating powers from the Municipality of Athens. I think that for a project in the metropolitan area of Athens, which needs a flexible organization that can obtain funding from many sources and have the direct care and support of the state, we are not talking about the existence of any competence, as we have never talked about the existence of competence by the Municipality of Athens, when it became the organization for the regulator of Athens or when it became the company for the integration of archaeological sites and urban replications. Not only did ESA make unification of archaeological sites. He launched competitions for large squares, gathered a know-how as a whole for the urban fabric of Athens. He made the three gigs based on the three big points. One never took place down the Sacred Road, as did the association of Dionysius Areopagitou with the Stylons of Olympian Dios and the Olympiacos. This work has not been done. Let's think about whether that can happen and other things. So I see this company as a continuity of that company, which has left a great deal of work, with very strong personalities as Presidents, such as the late-wind Kalandides and Mrs Galani, who was a member of the Ministry. These people built know-how, they went in. The life of this company has been brutally interrupted, mainly as a repository of ideas, which would be at the disposal of every government to exploit and advance them. That is why I suggested that the ministers include in the new company's reasoning the receipt and the archive and know-how of the company's unification of archaeological sites. From there on, what is happening in Athens and we say why we take responsibility for him is that in all forty years and more of the post-population period, while many mayors have passed, but we have not seen anyone go to make refugee. It's a special purpose company. Its first purpose is that. The second one's in the commercial triangle. A lot of people tried. What is left of Plaka and of the commercial triangle is the interventions of Tritsis and Manos, to say a few things from old ministers of the past few years, who have made some areas. The central government needs to look after the capital of democracy and be indulged if it does not care and does not take appropriate measures. Mr Scandalides said it: the municipal police was poorly abolished. But the SYRIZA government has brought her back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u152	Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u153	All right, all right, but try to keep up with the reformist innovations of past governments, which have been working on. You have renounced them and abolished them. We've brought them back and restored a few things to get a job that can't be done. As a publicity of Athenians, I have a complaint. I'll give you a small example. Pantanassa is the oldest temple in Athens. She gave her name to Monastirius neighborhood. Based on all the laws and stricter under the archaeological law, it is forbidden in radius of a few ten meters to enter tables. You go see the umbrellas with the beer and refreshments riding the trolleys of the Byzantine temple of the eighteenth century. That's the situation. It's a self-righteous crime. Did the Municipal Police ever go to tell the Subblazi, the kebbdzi, "Take the umbrellas, don't cover the hammering, the oldest temple in Athens"? That is the situation, and that is why we all bear responsibility, and the MPs, even the opposition, and the governments and, above all, the municipal authorities. The mayors went there to see what state is the square in Monastiraki, the square in Omonia? There is no decline, no threat and no disrespect of Athens in January 2015, when the SYRIZA government took over. Athens is not at its best possible condition, it's not at its worst. It is in a situation that calls us to make it more human, more vibrant and to have an organization that will continuously take care, over time, of having a strategic plan, to become an Athens, not only a brilliant tourist destination, which has already been made on its own, but an Athens, which will be a jewel for Greek democracy itself and for the people who live. That is, I think, the purpose and the legislator right now in this Chamber. That is why I believe that any criticism, any intervention, any contribution to this end, and even through it - as the Vice-Presidents of the Committee of the Regions believe - is the incomplete instrument for doing so better. All this sterile refusal, that nothing is done and all this is party armies, and impatiently, it is and they add absolutely nothing. I believe that, with the means available to the country, with budgetary sighness, with the committee, with the dissatisfaction with the Greek people after the eight-year crisis, every effort, every initiative, any reintroduction of a courageous approach to the daily life of the urban tissues and especially the capital of the Hellenic Republic, must find a minimum of sympathy, with criticism, with shots, but with an understanding. In the rest about "military" etc. I do not want to go into answers because we have the positive elements and the progressive divisions, which took place in the 1980s and later, but we cannot forget either the armies of the CPOs, nor what anthropological composition they were elected by the conferences, or by the judiciary or convicted ministers for colossal corruption. Mr. Kefaliannis told us before about Janus, about the two faces. Let's go see who 'Janes' made money laundering and who are even 'tied' in the center of Athens. That center of Athens that we want to reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u154	Thank you. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a statement. Honestly, I would expect a greater modesty in positioning from the standpoint of counterpopulation, in general. A walk to Athens, and especially to its center, is enough to realize what phase this city is in and that there is a substantial need for change and regeneration. The centre of Athens, which the crisis hit particularly, needs substantial interventions to highlight the history of this city, a city with the international recognition and identity that Athens has and which today cannot produce wealth nor prosperity for its inhabitants. The city's image in bankruptcy and decline really has to change. To become a city worth living: A city with accessibility of all, with colourfulness, multiculturality, with bioclimatic architecture, with free spaces, with small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, an element of the identity of this city, especially in its center, which must be restored. A city, which will meet the modern requirements, that is also posed by pre-engineering climate change. If we are considering that we are currently experiencing a rapid rise in temperature, as a result of climate change, Athens with its high and bulky concretes, the 20% uncovered surface on the plot on average, the maximum coverage rate was reduced to 70%, on the basis of the 1985 General Building Regulation, so this city has become unbearable, unbearable in terms of energy. In the Municipality of Athens, I repeat, as many colleagues here have been here, it has been estimated that each resident corresponds to one to two square meters green, when the acceptable surface in a European city is around nine square meters, while too many countries, and Europeans, on average, have ten five square meters. The fact is that many studies have been carried out, especially by the Municipality of Athens, from the region, with any connections and leaderships until now, even from ministries about the regeneration of Athens. But what has happened for so many years? They stayed on the paper. And now the Opposition comes to blame the government for omissioning local self-government. We also have all these decades of experts, citizens' movements, institutions, citizens, who have made demands to upgrade the everyday life of the city, to promote Athens at social, economic and cultural level. Let's not forget - we say again - that previous governments abolished the EAW in 2014. They denounced the ORSA. Appropriately, the Thessaloniki Regulatory Organisation. Let's remember all this. But today, we must make use of it in the new spatial planning. It has also been mentioned - and it is true - the important role and efforts of both Antonis Tritsis and Melina Mercury, but efforts that have not been completed. The need, therefore, for immediate measures to promote and improve this city through the coordination of competent bodies, government, government and ministries, really solves the creation of the new body "Athens S.A.". Because in addition to the decades of policies that have been implemented and regenerated a distorted model of development, the question of coordination has been crucial in the course of this city. Therefore, the aim of this body, as mentioned, is to coordinate the planning, programming and implementation of replications to the Municipality of Athens, with emphasis on the commercial triangle and refugee in Alexandra Avenue, in order to improve the quality of life, social cohesion and economic development of the regions. The EAW file is held by the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning, which participates in the company currently set up. It is assumed that there will be access to the archives of all the Ministries which participate in the body in order to make use of all these studies, which have not been carried out for so many years. As part of its objective, the ‘ATHENA RELATIONS’ may, by way of derogation, make use of abandoned or inactive buildings, restore maintained and newer monuments, undertake actions to strengthen the newly innovative and innovative entrepreneurship, solidarity economy, highlighting the tourist character of the regions. The objectives of the company are also included in the uncovered areas in the Athens neighborhoods, as are actions to improve the accessibility of the urban environment, focusing on the accessibility of persons with reduced mobility and disability. To close, I would say, with a sense of responsibility for the future and highlighting the history of this city and its identity, that we must, away from micro-groups and micro-politicals, with modesty and related self-criticism - I say it again - support this effort, which is introduced into this bill today, so that the promotion in the future is what really deserves our Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u156	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard, indeed with interest, the suggestions of all the rapporteurs and speakers. I shall, however, turn to the suggestion made by the speaker on the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Manatis, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber now. Come on out. He referred to the positions of the Secretary-General in the Ministries, which, as he said, since the current coup d'état came out of her imagination of inventing new responsibilities, progresses in the creation of new bodies to meet the needs of the party's coup d'état. So far, we fully agree with Mr. Maniots. I'm impressed, though, because Mr. Maniotis was so impressed by this. They had the best teachers, the "deep state" of PASOK. Besides, Minister Spirtz himself has said that he belongs to the old Orthodox PASOK, as well as most of the members of today's conflict, who, in my humble view, probably have exceeded the teacher. Minister, in your suggestion you referred to and asked the opposition parties if they are looking in the mirror. Do you and your executives have a mirror in your house? In the parties to which you were asking questions, you and too many members of your co-government participated. You didn't come from virginity. I absolutely agree that in certain buildings there will certainly have to be refreshment. I am impressed, however, by your selective report on refugees, where we agree that there should be a refreshment, your reference to the bullets in refugee. There's bullets, Mr. Minister, and Makrigiannis's, though. You have also referred to the need to establish a museum of democracy. What democracy, Minister? In a democracy, in which you do not fundamentally believe, because for you rather democracy means that we representatives of the third political force in this Parliament can express our opinion freely, but rather from within. So you are bringing this amendment here, and indeed - to listen to the Greek people too - the amendment is signed by three Members and it refers to the need for the Foundation of the Greek Parliament to enter this institution. What for? I will accept that the President of Parliament itself could not be ethically signatory to the amendment, but there should be at least one signature of one of the Vice-Presidents. What will be the relationship between the Foundation of the Parliament? Because we as Golden Dawn have a very bad experience. Remember the EUR 25,000 that the House Foundation recently gave for the history of Communism. Is that your understanding of democracy? If you want to operate a museum, look at the already existing ones working properly. Will the Foundation's relationship with this institution be two-way? Will he be able to finance any way he gets money to give it where the House Foundation wants? We will certainly vote against Amendment No 1575. There is another amendment with number 1571. This amendment concerns the OAED and public works and, in essence, clarifies that the General Secretariat for the Management of Community or Other Resources is involved or may be involved. So far, only the OAED has participated in this design, development and implementation of the programmes of a socially beneficial nature or of the unemployed, which the OAED draws up and implemented. In practical terms, however, there is no change in the programmes. Just now, the General Secretariat will be involved. The question is whether this addition will be effective and there will be no problems or sticks to these programmes. On the other hand, there are actions drawn up by the General Secretariat, such as programmes of a mutually beneficial nature to protect forest ecosystems. In this case the remuneration of the beneficiaries up to twenty-five years will be EUR 431,75 per month and over twenty-five years will be EUR 496,25. It concerns those who are registered with the OAED. Therefore, this is right to add, since there is no additional financial cost, of course, provided that the beneficiaries receive this money. Apart from the short-term payment of money, however, another issue is that of drawing up the tables, which have not only been a few times, there have been real problems, but only with the responsibility of the OAED, as there have been gaps and unambiguous points, strengthening the sense of insecurity to the already afflicted unemployed. We shall vote 'at present' in Amendment No 1571. I shall now refer to the draft law. The draft law tells us that a new state body, a state company, an AKO, is to be set up under the name "ANAPPLISIA ATHENA S.A.", which is supposed to resolve issues related to the design, coordination, programming and implementation of planned replications in Athens. And I say'suppose', because there is no basic evidence for this new body and above all for its necessity. We have heard it in the committees and here. We are not the only ones to say, because we have heard it from the institutions. There is not a single body that welcomes this creation or is even a little optimistic that it will work. On the contrary, what you are planning is dealt with with with distrust, with refusal - and indeed justified, we would say - and with frustration over your own government choices. If we start with some basic and simple principles, we will see that you are talking about regeneration of an urban area, only that this urban area, like others throughout the territory, has been degraded, endangering the overall cohesion of the urban system and decommissioning the operation and economy of the city. It is important that we know what kind of refreshment we want and what steps must be taken. Therefore, the concept of refreshment is not unique. A number of necessary actions are needed to achieve the desired result. The truth is that, from time to time, the business regenerations that have been implemented by various bodies and agencies or new administrative regimes, which are created for this very purpose, whether they exist or are created to take over the programme. These were EASA, the unification of Archaeological Areas and Reproductions of S.A., the Office for Platforms of the Ministry of the Environment, the Public Operation for Urban Planning and Housing, or else PPCOS, the company for the special purpose of “SEE REFERENCE”. As you can see, there are very relevant bodies and therefore, from the outset, we cannot understand where the need to create another one lies. At first, we know that he will also be inactive, at best in cases, or involved in a multitude of scandals and the destruction of public money. Of course, the truth is that the creation of this state-owned company serves your co-government. In what way? With the further occupation of the state mechanism, with the decommissioning of the state, with the service of customer relations and "days", while unemployment has hit red and our country has won the lead in the indicators of official unemployment and job insecurity. It is challenging to create new positions for your own party excellence, without a trace of merit beyond party credentials. But let us look at the case of Athens. Because you are referring specifically to the Municipality of Athens and it is specifically mentioned in the commercial triangle and the refugee of Alexandra Avenue, the situation is indeed tragic. You could see that if you were to be released, and if you listened to society. At a meeting with the Mayor of Athens, the Prime Minister had talked about an integrated reform plan in Athens, and the Minister of State, under whose supervision the body will operate, had designated Task Force as a special mission, which would not replace functions and responsibilities of ministries and local authorities. In practice, however, we saw that during the committees and particularly at the hearing of bodies, there were many reactions from stakeholders, as well as from the Municipality of Athens itself. On this point, of course, let us say that we do not agree with the mayor 100%. The mayor referred to projects and studies, which are ready, but we should also see what he has done these eight years of his term of office, of course, apart from the actions and cooperation he had with non-governmental organisations and illegal immigrants. The truth is that what has been promised so far has not been done, as has not been the case for consultation on any serious plan for the renewal of Athens. Good and understandable his opposition to the government's practice, but he has not given the assurance that he can do it alone. Therefore, it can be said that it offers the scope for the free action of the rulers and for the establishment of the refresher organisation. Mayors and governments are coming and going, but the body will be left for at least fifteen years, and given that it will be fully politically directed, we are sure that there will be conflicts and delays of any projects. In these eight articles, which constitute the bill, there is no overall organisational model, which will clarify the company's responsibilities in relation to other bodies. It does not make clear who will draw up urban policy, who will give directions, who is planning the programmes, who coordinates their implementation, as is mentioned in a document tabled by the institutions. It is not unfair to say that this body replaces local government, while this body will not be subject to any political and social control, so that no one can guarantee the proper functioning of the city, and it will also give absolutely no reason to manage the money from taxpayers to local communities. It is true that there will be a duplication of responsibilities and a deterioration of the role of the Municipality and possibly of the Region. The report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service is clear and the existing laws and services involved are detailed in detail at local and decentralised level. The principle can be made with the Municipality of Athens, but no one guarantees that the responsibilities of the body will not be extended to other municipalities of Lecanoped, with what that naturally implies. It is true that the money already allocated for the preparation of studies and proposals will be lost substantially. Because this should be done again and therefore thousands of euros will be paid back, which could only be labelled as waste. I fear that even if one of the projects is put into practice, this will be of a local nature, accompanied by point interventions in sub-regions of the Centre, without being part of a comprehensive upgrading plan. There's a complete refreshment program missing. But that makes sense, since it is a matter of local government rather than central government. This was the result of the choice policies and actions of the regulators representatives of local government and, above all, of the first degree in consultation with local communities in order to meet local needs. Besides, management of local affairs is a task of local government and is constitutionally regulated. You are talking about taking advantage of abandoned gaps or inactive buildings. How will these be exploited? What uses will you host and what will you do with all those wonderful neoclassical, ornaments in Athens that have been understood by known strangers, anti-powered and used today as hermits? How will you take action to remove them? And since we are talking about infringements, tell us how to protect the entire Centre of Athens and not just, which has been ghettoised in which residents cannot protect their homes and shops from the attacks of the various anarchists who are always unpunished. How can we talk about regeneration of areas, social cohesion, upgrading, when basic safety issues have not been resolved? There the central state has full responsibility and competence and we see the inaccuracy of the authorities. In the case of how can we be sure of the effectiveness of their decisions? Infringements will not be reduced because another coordination body will be set up for projects in Athens at the level of hyperlotopic. Social cohesion is dismantled and it is the only choice for the rulers. One walks to the Athens Centre and I think it is in any other country in the Eastern world. If anyone uses the transport that passes through these areas and operates these routes, he'll think he's out of the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u158	Mr. Shahinides, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u159	It experiences this multicultural experience, which is nothing but pleasant. And this shattered social cohesion is in direct connection with the sense of insecurity that exists and has unfortunately been integrated into the days of your administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u160	Mrs Karakosta has the floor from SYRIZA. The last speaker is Mr Sevastakis. We will give two-three minutes to any of the special speakers and rapporteurs who wish to give a second answer and will close the meeting. Here, Mrs. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u161	Good evening, too, everybody, who listens to us today. I'll start with some comment. Look, here is only Mr. Bourras on behalf of the New Democracy, but you realise, Mr. Bourras, that Mrs. Kefaliannis, while presenting us with an Athens on abandonment, insecure and all the bad things she has said in her speech, she forgot that until now there is not this company, so the municipality was responsible for stopping that image of abandonment. On the other hand, Mr. Buras accuses us of going to take responsibility for the municipality. Once we have to come up with who has responsibility to date, and if we really have to intervene to change the image of Athens. I would also like to comment - I am sorry that Mr Scandalidis is not here, because he was politically living in the period of 1981 when the PASOK political space took the government - that PASOK, willingly and politically willingly at that time, worked with ideas on the left, and did so on many levels. I would like you not to forget, for example, the interventions by Michael Doris, an architect of illuminated light, who individually operated in favour of the regeneration of the lighthouse. In other words, the spirit of the regeneration of the industrial buildings is extremely important. In one building, it gave a whole course of direction to how to regenerate industrial buildings. Tritsis then came in, who brought in an excellent bill, through which we stopped indemnifying the places that he needs to take the public to make roads, to make churches, to make schools, in the new way of joining the project, and with what we call offering on land and money. Exceptionally, it was also in the 1985 law, those articles that were talking about uncovered spaces, a concept which now enters here, into the functions of this organization. I would remind you, in other words, some things that have happened in times of momentum, that we change the landscape, that we change Athens. They've been recorded in several preserved buildings at the time. There's the lists in the Ministry, and we've got them. It's not all recorded. It had to be a lot more. But a huge effort has been made. Then there was the Athens Organization, ORSA, EACH etc. It's 20 years ago we haven't seen their work. Because what happened, it happened about twenty years ago. I can't remember if it's eighteen or nineteen, but it's this class. What happened in the meantime and we've saved everything we've saved? You know that the refugees of Alexandra Avenue have been saved so far because there have been residents who have for years given the movement a life for the rescue of these refugees. Don't ever forget it. It became an object in the field of the Polytechnic, with studies to maintain this story of refugees, with any stone buildings there. Characteristic cluster is that of refugees there. In New Philadelphia, Piraeus, in the area of mine, we have excellent clusters of these that we must maintain. It is therefore not bad at all, after both the dissolution of the EAW and the OPS, to build a company which - as we read in this bill - is, in my opinion, quite complete - and finances and makes architectural competitions and does the studies. It mobilizes, in other words, and coordinates all forces that can bring us a direct result. And that's what we'll expect. I'm telling the Minister who's present. I believe that Mr Spirtzis, too, who undertakes to promote this bill, the establishment of this company, is practical and effective. To have the beginning of work there, that is, to have become an architectural competition, to have results and to have works as well. Never forget that, on several occasions, the movements of Athens have worked excellently for the integration of green spaces, with excellent proposals, which have never been implemented. So, in this Chamber, when we are really all asking for another Athens, we must take into account all the things that have been done by the movements and understand how useful they are to be effective coordination in order to implement them. Do not forget that there is the huge movement for the green areas that starts in Haidari and is the movement of Haidari. We have the olive grove. It's all connected. We move on to the Mars Field in Galachi and cross the Psychic to get to the Papagos. These are suggestions excellent, which the movement has fought for. We must not underestimate them. We, as the left, have to show them, take them seriously. And this company is going to go beyond the example that it will very soon give in its first year on refugees, because it owes us this to shut the mouths of the opposition that says it does not intend to do anything about this company. No, it has a lot to do and we invite her to do as much as possible in this direction. Why? Because crime, which has been mentioned by a colleague here, is developing in degraded areas, colleagues and colleagues. Where there is degradation, where there is darkness, because there is no lighting, where there is no movement because there is degradation, there is crime. So we want clean green areas, we want pedestrian passages lit. We want the citizen to breathe, to walk freely, to feel well, to feel safe. And he feels safe when he has a city with dignity, when he has a city open, when he has a city enlightened. Athens also has so much sun a day and needs the light of the night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u162	Mr Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u163	Thank you very much. I remember the work of the late professor of the National Technical University and the School of Architects, Annie Vrychea. I remember the fourth semester selection of the Stavrides team working on the spot. I remember my own students, too, working in the visual interpretation of refugees. I also remember the diplomatic work in the repository of the School of Architecture with too many ideas, one of which was the interconnection of Alexandra's refugees with the adjacent hospital. And one understands through these revocations that there are very great weaknesses to take collective decisions concerning our current historical time, as he reads his history, his past and his future plans. It's like we have a collective impossibility to make big decisions. It is true - and I would complement the examples mentioned earlier by Scandalidis - that there have been major political decisions in the past, which have also created a kind of powerful architecture of structural gesture. To talk about the hiking of Dionysius Areopagiti, which essentially strengthened today's abandoned Pikioni walk in Philippi and mainly the abandonment of Lubbardiari. They're important modern monuments. And I wonder whether Athens has throughout its great historical history the architectural testimonies, that is, the cultural testimonies of all its phases of history. No, there are huge historical gaps and that's why it's valuable to restore the architecture of the stock. It's very important. When, in my opinion, there was a strong debate a few years ago after the New Acropolis Museum was built on whether the two will be demolished, in my view, valuable buildings on the Dionysius Areopagiti, one art decor and the other neoclassical, to raise the opening of the New Acropolis Museum to the monument itself, the Acropolis, that is, too many major architects, intellectuals and scholars said that it is our historic body that was built, built, spaced and divided, so shallow that we must preserve it. Do not talk about urban gaps, such as a form of urban vacuum - a colleague said before - who throws in what the city doesn't need, as olive grove is. Do not talk about major inertia in decisions relating to connections, such as sports facilities in the city's body, which we do not know what to do with them, we cannot decide how to manage them. All of this also tells us an indecisive policy. I am also paraphrasing what he said about the inconsistency of the policy beforehand, I think Mr Scandalidis or Mr Maniatis, saying that the example of the Area of Mars is an excellent example of discontinuity. An investment is made, designed with architectural care, organized and abandoned. This has happened in many cases where architectural planning, town planning actions are being carried out, they are being abandoned, and you are actually seeing a mortality in political decisions. I think, therefore, that the legislative intention is to find the way in which all major collective formations can decide, take advantage of and activate either existing studies or direct teams of architects or open competitions for the organisation of our site, for the recovery of our city, which is also a political and cultural recovery of today's historical year. I would say that, as I see the bodies involved and co-operate with this body, indeed all the great collective compositions exist in the ministries as well. I miss the National Technical University, a key technician and aesthetic and spiritual consultant of the state. I think he could see it. The point is that we can get this big storage to activate it and do it now. The most common in times, when you're trying to design is the opposition organizations, the opposite mechanisms, which don't communicate with each other, and I mean the control and supervision mechanisms of the state. From this treaty create terrible delays, waste time, creates an uncertainty, changes the political treaty and does not go ahead with planning and luck goes on. I close with the reminder of Michael Mitsakis, an important 19th-century scholar who had been overshadowed by Papadiamantis, for the stories of Psirri. In today's region, which, by political decision, I think of the Laliotis period, was redesigned and regained its urban truth, such a possibility gives us a protocol on the design future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u164	Mr. Sevastakis, please very much, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u165	I'll be done. I am usually very disciplined, but the lyricism of the subject is paralyzing us, Mr President, as is the previous speaker. In conclusion, I would like to say that we need to see this with a great deal of boldness. After all, the legislation finds its truth through the implementations and through the work of the groups that will be invited to serve both the study groups and the implementation teams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u166	The list of speakers has been completed. We're on our way to second grades. Mr. Diarah, you have the floor for two to three minutes. This applies not only to you but also to all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u167	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u168	Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u169	Mr President, I am not able to speak to the rapporteurs - and I am speaking for myself, since 18.00 I have not moved - to say three minutes and even when I have not been given the opportunity to speak on the amendments too, because the Secretary-General, who has been missing his name, had not come to me. So I would ask that the time be respected by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u170	First of all, there is no special procedure for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u171	I want to be a second-guesser, and don't deprive me of my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u172	Listen, Mr. Bourra, since you're putting a matter of time. You are normally entitled under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u173	The President said with a little tolerance for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u174	I have in front of me the times of the first reading of all the rapporteurs and the special speakers. As far as you are concerned, your first intervention lasted eighteen minutes and thirty seconds. Under the Rules of Procedure, therefore, each rapporteur has fifteen minutes plus seven and a half minutes. So you're entitled to the difference. If we do so, I will give you the difference in the time you are entitled to and none at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u175	Do what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u176	Also, listen to this. On the occasion of your speech, in order not to waste time, the President-in-Office is normally at 23:00. So I'm going to interrupt the meeting because I'm a human being and I can't sit here in hours, and the bill will go tomorrow, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u177	He should go tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u178	Mr. Bourra, listen to me. You're old and I didn't expect you to raise these issues. We could have arranged this in zero time. Mr. Diarah, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u179	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the rapporteurs, the speakers and the opposition. We're all living in modern Athens. Fortunately, there is the Acropolis of Philippa, the Old Royal Palace, the National Garden now and the House, the Kallimmarmaro. The rest of Athens, as it was structured and evolved, unfortunately, is a city that cannot live decently, whether we call Vathy Square, whether we call Vineyards, or we call Pagcrati. Green is very little, as we have said, the public spaces are very few, the sidewalks too little. and have this responsibility, all depending on how they ruled and the role they played in government over the years, whether local rulers, prefectures or governments. That is why I say that we need to be measured, count our words, take self-criticism and see every step in a positive way and see this bill as a start of a dialogue, because we must all join together and form a project now that slowly brings Athens back to being a sustainable city, and make all those refreshments and reforms that the citizens and the capital of a country need. In the JRC's criticism, which I always hear very carefully, I would like to say that, although his criticism of the fact that the projects serve large capital many times, large businesses, farms, etc., but we must say that within the existing system we must function as we can and improve conditions for the people. Refreshments made by EACH, that is, Dionysius Aerpagitou, Apostle Paul, around the Acropolis, etc., are not only used by the privileged, are used by ordinary citizens. Therefore, within the framework that we can in this system correct what is being corrected, I call on us here to come to an agreement even though it was incomplete to do what is needed for the city, for its inhabitants and for the next generations, which will not be able to live. As many colleagues have said, climate change leads us to restore and increase green in Athens and to make mild moves. It's necessary, now, to survive. And because this is about all of us, we need to make a joint project, where we need a new institutional framework, Minister. As regards the property lost by the owners of all these buildings that need to be regenerated, we can now see in this revision that may also be coming up with a revision of articles of the Constitution. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. Mr. Buras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say a few words about the amendment, with a general number of 1751 and a special number of 29. She arrived on 7 May at 12.15 p.m. on Monday afternoon by Ms. Ahtsoglou and related. This amendment by Mrs Ahtsoglou comes late in today's bill. I understand why he filed it in today's bill. Because, indeed, she did not want to discuss with her presence and with the presence of the relevant ministers. And the Minister came, which I sincerely asked if he knows how to read. I guess I know how to read. He says, in particular, that this is where we have conspiracy. That is to say the responsibility of the OAED is taken by the General Secretariat for the Management of Community Programmes. Of course, two days, yesterday and today, this would be debated, because conflict and overlap are certain, because we have a shared competence. And one says, with what personal? With what potential will the Secretariat-General make the programmes? Is it converted from a coordinating body to an executive body? That's all I wanted to say. Of course, we are voting against. But be in knowledge of the Greek people what is happening. Could Mrs Ahcioglu not table her in her bill of amendment and delay her to another one? Secondly, Mr President, Mr Spirtz is gone or he may be behind the door if I see him well. I would, of course, like to say to him that I support the selflessness of the Municipality of Athens. I don't support a mayor. If I wanted to refer to mayors, Mr Spirtzi, I would speak, as I have spoken to the committee, with specific works of mayors supported by my own party, such as Evert, Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Avramopoulos, Nikita Kaklamanis, who have done an important job and changed the appearance of Athens. Today, this aspect, of course, is not what it should be. Because of this is the bad coping. That's why the world is protesting. And that's not all, of course. They need more. I think Mr Spirtzis did not read the report - I'm sorry, he may not have had time - of the Scientific Committee. Because I have been watching the House for years, it is worth wondering how the Scientific Committee highlights what it has highlighted at the end. You know, it analyses with four pages detail, word - the responsibilities of local government. While he could say "according to the Code of Municipalities and Communities", he sits and speaks detailedly, one - one word, order - order - letter - on the Code of Municipalities and Communities, on the responsibilities of the region and the decentralised administration. In fact, it says: 'In the light of the above, it is observed...'. I told you. I have no time to say this again, Mr President. Honestly, I don't want to argue with you, but these things are important. I find that Mr. Spirtz just came here to throw rockets at me, to Maniatis, as he does. On the subject of the report, he will answer us if he has read the report of the Scientific Committee. And to tell him that he also made a very big mistake - I have the Minutes here - undemocratic. It says: 'There is no way' - so said Mr Spirtzis, I am reading exactly - 'to leave citizens free of charge, especially in the metropolitan centres, to whether a municipality can do the job or cannot do the job'. In other words, he directly enters, threatens and says "I will enter the municipalities to do what I want". Because you all exhumed the bill, there's the bill, it handed us over. It's eight articles. Not even four pages, Mr President, for all this great work that will save Athens! Instead of going to measures to introduce the capital city's metropolitan municipality, instead of going to co-operation, which has long been known as the president of the Technical Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u182	Come on, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u183	Instead of doing all of this, working together, he comes with an unfamiliar institution, with 50,000 euros, without saying where he will settle, how he will settle, what staff he will have. There will be nothing, and the Scientific Committee will say that. Think, we arrange for us to hire staff, not to say if we hire architects, lawyers, engineers. We are saying 'we shall hire'. First we make the box and then we put it. That's how I know. It's just math. One and one do two and they don't do three. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I had more to say, but I don't have time. I also respect your own effort and colleagues, the managers who have been struggling since the morning to serve us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u184	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I have three comments. The first point is that I will not respond, I am not interested in responding to the comments made by Minister Spiritzi, on the issues of Kalogrisa, the 500 million that he gave more to motorway contractors. They're indifferent to me, they know the whole society, I have no interest in answering. The second point is that because we will not vote in principle or on the articles of the bill, we cannot obviously accept the amendments either. However, if the state is interested in creating a museum for democracy, a museum for democracy, the Greek Parliament and the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, in consultation with the parties and not with the company, which the whole opposition is voting against, to consult and vote to move forward. The most important of all. I have listened very carefully to all the speakers and to the Minister and to the parliamentary representative and to my colleagues, and I must say that I have felt that I live in surrealistic situations or situations of absolute hypocrisy. Now listen to what doesn't stand in a man's mind. I know that my party "has destroyed Greece since post-Macedonia". This is what Mr. Tsipras tells us: "The old regime, Andreas Papandreou destroyed Greece, his ministers destroyed Greece". We have destroyed Greece and now I hear from everyone that Melina has done a great job, that Tritsis has done a great job. I mean, we're going crazy! Did PASOK destroy Greece or...?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u186	Please! Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u187	But since surrealism obviously exists in SYRIZA's political DNA, my dear colleagues and my dear Minister, Mr Spirtzi, let me have a very basic question. You are applauding the work of the Athens Regulatory Plan, the ORSA. Do you know what the top project of the ORSA was? Athens Regulatory Plan. Do you know what you've done? You voted against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u188	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u189	You wouldn't drive us crazy here. You will not tell us what was important was the Athens Regulatory Plan and the top job you will have voted against, with Mr Tsipras first and with roll-call votes. There's a limit to what one can accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u190	And with me as president of the TEI...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u191	Don't rush, you'll answer. Secondly, I heard what a great job we did. What I didn't hear! The hiking of Dionysius Areopagitou, the Acropolis Museum, the Niarchos Foundation that we subsidised, the area of Psyrri, Laliotis, the Area of Mars. Guys of SYRIZA, these are our plays. So you're telling us good for our work. Thank you so much! But the scope of Mars - and I am referring to the Minister responsible - for making it inhabitable and sustainable for people does not need any company from what you are building. It can immediately be made sustainable. Exarchia, the bollocking man, doesn't want any state-owned corporations like the one you're building to make it sustainable. The trolleys that pass through Patisia - they are the object of Mr Spirtzi - and the hammerheads do not need any company. Because you spoke of EAW as well, I will mention that, of course, the EAW has done a great deal of work and, of course, the ORGA. But listen, Mr President, to the absurdity of the political reasoning of the government. He tells us it's good for the ORSA. I agree. It's a good NSA. I agree. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that all the archives of the ORGA and EAFRD, all the members of the ORGA and all the responsibilities of the ORSA and EAFRD belong to the Ministry of the Environment? It's all there. For three and a half years no one has put up a penny so that this file, these people, these responsibilities, can be exploited. And you come now and tell us to build another state-owned company in another ministry and not that ministry in which the responsibilities of ORSA and EAA exist. You think we're going to give you and you to do the job with other ministry services. So you consider that Mr. Stathakis is incapable, because otherwise this job would have been entrusted to the person responsible, Mr. Stathakis. So you tell us that magically the two Ministers will do this work, which you have not done for three and a half years, while you have all it in your hands. I repeat, Mr President, and thank you, that you have the responsibilities laid down to do the work of both ORSA and EAEC, you have all the staff who are employees of the Ministry of the Environment and you also have all the archives in the Ministry of the Environment. So the top question is why three and a half years you have done nothing for what you are telling us is that the company you want to build will be doing in future. For these very simple reasons, Mr President, we will vote against the entire bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u192	Good, Mr. Maniot. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u193	Mr President, we have followed an intra-family fight between SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Don't worry, Mr. Maniatis, your plans will be implemented by Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u194	He's fighting, but he doesn't make it that much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u195	The same choice makes the designs and choices of the projects are precisely in the direction that you and the New Democracy have gone in the previous period. They serve all the needs of this country's ruling class. The fact is that projects necessary for people's needs are not promoted because they do not have sufficient profitability. Should we be talking about anti-military works, anti-nuclear protection, anti-Semitism protection, children's stations, schools, hospitals and all that, which I omit for brief reasons? Any works carried out under PPPs and concession contracts shall be carried out by the monopolist groups. The taxpayers pay them twice and three times. Let us think about what has been said about the conditions in Athens, but also about the entire Lefkanopedio, as well as all the other shortcomings, the green, the sports infrastructure, the squares, the free spaces and everything else that characterises the daily life of the people of Lefkanopdi and the whole of the country. It is simply because of the choices that have been made by the capital that runs the risk, but also because of the political staff who carried them out. In the face of profit, in the face of the need to find a way out of accumulated funds, no importance is given to the quality of life of the people. The experience of the people from the rave - has been rigging, from the establishment of companies, by cementing the Lecanomedi, from, from - we may say a lot - it is very great. Yes, no one can oppose the necessary regenerations of the cities and especially of Athens, the Lecturer of Attica. The crucial issue is who will pay and whose interests will be satisfied with the areas to be regenerated. As long as the land and the means of production are individual property and are concentrated in the ruling class, any design will satisfy their own needs. To say the amendment that Mr Paradise defended. First of all, we are not opposed to the creation of the museum. However, there are issues which have not been discussed either in the Conference of Presidents and which have not been cleared up, concerning its functioning, its content and other aspects. That's why we're going to stay in the 'costs'. For the other amendment, the ministerial amendment, I spoke in my prototype. We are opposed to the substance of this policy of programmes which ensure cheap labour force, greater profitability in business groups and which, as before and now, are tools to overthrow every right to work. We are voting 'no' in the bill at first, but also in all the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief as I was in my prototype. Four minutes I talked to my prototype. Very quickly I will tell you: Athens, like most Greek cities, will see light only when the demolition of buildings, openings of roads, etc. They give Tsarouchi that he had said that the next benefactors would be the ones that would break down buildings in Athens and write "They were inaugurated by him". Until this is done - very difficult to do - Athens will breathe, and most Greek cities themselves, when we free the pavements from refrigerators, labels, tables, illegal and arbitrary constructions. When the city's maniacs come out in the morning, noon, night to clean up and don't walk downtown and the ammonia comes to you, so I can say it like that. When the Municipal Police acquire responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, it will be possible to stop the locomotive on the sidewalk. You may not know, but on the pedestrian road, for example, when a "machine" moves, the municipal officer can't stop him and call him. Only on a stopped vehicle can get a call. To boil this city police. When the public are responsible and will not make black flags, as they were coming out to Ermos, so that Hermos will not be hijacked. A lot of journalists were close. The press said "The shopping mall is destroyed. The economic life of Athens is brought to a turbulence." Who? Hermos. Go ask now those merchants who would take out black flags if they want us to get her back off the pedestrian road. When Athens gets a taxi. It's the only capital that doesn't have taxi plates! Illegal taxis make the dishes, double-parking. When, for example, Panormos, Gazis, Hymittos from noise pollution, the "duppa dope" of coffee, restaurants, night shops, etc. So when Athens is released from all these obstacles that keep it fixed, when you can go to Exarches without fear, when you can cross the Aryan field without being robbed, when you can go to your work and if it is on course, because the strikers will have provided a lane for the ambulances to pass through the buses and people to go to his work, then we will not need the bulldozers to demolished Athens that we do not like. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this draft law, we will also have to vote against the amendments, because they are linked to this draft law and hopefully that at some point the bulldozers will be able to demolish all the things they have done for Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Flambury has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u199	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u200	Do you want the floor, Mr. Cavalella, for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u201	I didn't talk to protology. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u202	Excuse me. You replaced Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u204	Listen, please, so there won't be any confusion. The rapporteur for your parliamentary group is Mr Georgiadis, who spoke. You replaced him in the context of the vote. Now you're asking for a dentistry, anyway, to take advantage of the time of dentistry. You obviously want to intervene for something. Can I give you two minutes, strict? That's enough, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u205	Two-three, it doesn't matter. I'll be as brief as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u206	In order not to be considered to be wrong as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u207	In order not to waste time, I will talk about the amendment - an addition, which has come, concerning the inclusion of a Republic Museum in the targeting of the 'Athens City Refreshment Forum'. It is something that we have discussed in committee. We were agreed on that. It's something that sounds beautiful. However, we had agreed in the committees that a comprehensive proposal would come. Nothing important came to give us light. So we have to say 'the present' because, for example, we do not know the budget, how much it will cost, what people will manage it, what will be the thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u208	The position of your rapporteur has been recorded here. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u209	Come on, Mr. Cavadela.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u210	At the moment, the proposal is that we are in 'present', regardless of what Mr Bourras says. Now it's going to be decided. Now, as far as Athens is concerned. Athens really needs to be demolished. Imagine an Athens with towers per three hundred meters away. Instead of having all the houses stretched down, building them up, releasing the spaces for sports children, for green, for parks, for lakes, for rivers that are covered to take them out. You'll tell me where the money is going to come from? This could be a counter-comparison, that is to say, to give the interested parties a benefit at the height and start tearing down Athens every ten to ten blocks and so that we can see the Acropolis as well, see the Lycabetto at any point in Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u211	Thank you. Before I gave the floor to Mr. Flambury to close the bill, Minister Spirtz asked for two minutes to speak. Minister, please, strictly two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u212	Strictly. Five telegraphic answers I want to give so there's no misunderstanding. The first is the answer to Mr Bourras, who asked me if I read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. Obviously, I read it very carefully, Mr Bourrai. Is what you refer to in your prototype or the rest of the Opposition? Is the Attica Regulatory Plan, the ESA? Are these all local or municipal? Is the unification of archaeological sites, olive grove, gondy, double refreshment, a local character? Is it just for the Municipality of Athenians? Secondly, you didn't tell us anything about the coastal front. Nothing has been said about the abolition of the OPCW. We asked Mr. Maniotis, who was then Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u213	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u214	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u215	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u216	You blamed us for the Athens Regulatory Plan we voted against. If I remember correctly the placement of the Chamber of Deputies - I was President at the time - it was, of course, negative. That doesn't mean we're removing the ORSA. You abolished him. Institutionally, both the ORSA and the Organisation of Regulatory Design of Thessaloniki and Ioannina, which you abolished, needed to exist. For God's sake! Because you also raised a number of things about urban transport to say: it is what Mr Scandalides said before about inconsistencies. Let's see who's inconsistent: Trolleys don't burn them. The trolleys, the subway, buses in Athens and Thessaloniki burned the circuits that you left to plunge urban transport, fake tickets and everything else. And a personal position: Mr. Scandalides said that in '95 I supported Mr. Simitis, who came out as Prime Minister. I was 26. What does he mean by "supporting"? Unfortunately, Mr Manatis, in the Vineyards we did not have an ancient theatre like Epidaurus, where you were growing up to train us top actors. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u217	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u218	Mr. Flambury has the floor. Mr. Flambury, please, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u219	It is now too late, but I have to try to restore the reality that has to do with the body that we are called upon to vote on today. I think that two - three packages of problems that have been raised are outside of this text in the sense of the effort being made to bring about the regeneration of Athens. I think that also in the debate in here and beyond, it is clear that projects which had high aesthetic and good objectives could not be implemented, not because those who designed them did not want it - far from me that view - but I think that the situation prevailed, whether bureaucratic or overlapping, or not leading to these negative results which we all see exist. So an issue that we are trying to resolve - we may not have succeeded or achieved 100% - is the attempt to coordinate those bodies that are responsible for moving things forward in Athens. For example, they spoke earlier about refugees. Do you know that in order to become refugees, the Ministry of Culture needs to work with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, to cooperate with the Municipality of Athens, to cooperate with the Region so that this story can go ahead? My colleague mentioned Annie Vrychea earlier. I remember her for over twelve years now having fought for it for twelve years then I hope and believe that I will do so. We're all talking about Exarches. Do you know how to really solve issues or deal with issues relating to this region? They talked about the Polytechnic. Shouldn't the Polytechnic reoperate? Shouldn't the subway be done? These are all issues that we did not open up the debate here. And badly there was such a reference from a number of people. When we consult these issues - and we will be - then we will all tell our views. A third issue that has been raised a great deal and for which I would like to restore reality is what has been said to be intercepted by the municipality, by region or by such bodies. If you see the board, you will see that there are three equal contributions, because we are trying to coordinate. It is the government, through the Overseas Ministers of State and Sub-SMEDI, is the Municipality of Athens, it is the Region. They are these three separate bodies that will cooperate so that any project can proceed. Unfortunately, for opposition tactics, I think that all this has been said. If there is no cooperation, it will stay the same. To say something that really has something to do with the Municipality of Athens. We do not care if he is the mayor of Athens someone who is not ours. What we care about the municipality is that we can achieve some things this year and a half and the next four that we are going to be a government, even though we are the mayor or the mayor, regardless of whether it is our choice. So away from us all the things that have been heard here today, which have saddened me and troubled me, because they have nothing to do with everything we want to do. We're accused of wanting to hire. There's no such thing. It is not our intention, and it will prove very quickly. For example, the same things were said when this body was built for 'citizens' dailyity'. I am aware that the 'citizen'ness', which now has more than fifteen thousand applications for problems, operates with twenty public posted workers, with no employees, that is to say, paid separately. No one was hired. This is an indication or indication at least that the government's intention is not to do all that you said and for which you blamed it. I understand to a certain extent that we are in a phase where the opposition - and I would like to say this - is slowly losing the opposition bases which had - and which had a meaning - in relation to the appalling budgetary difficulty that has been so many years since 2010, but also ours in the years. We're over this. We see that exports have reached 11%-12%. We see the package of advertisements, which is very substantial and crucial, increasing over the last few years by over 10%, which means that the market has started and is moving. I therefore believe that these elements that were on the lip of the Opposition in order to make a strong opposition, in its view, have been omitted. We now fall into issues which have nothing to do with reality. So the institution that we are doing is intended to coordinate, so that the centre of Athens really can get a single direction, a single aesthetic, a single person. We shall ask for this - and I shall end with it - as soon as the body is voted on and the board of directors and its opinion and statutes become a architectural, urban and spatial competition, which we shall be proclaiming. We will provide all the information that is available to both the Polytechnic and the municipality studies and the regional studies and the thousands of eight hundred buildings - I am talking about the centre, they are not so much, they are less - they will be given to the scholars, those who want to participate in the competition and they will present us with a comprehensive plan on how we really want to become the center of Athens. There each institution will be able to intervene, but by filling out what we are saying, the single project, so that the centre of Athens can actually acquire its real character, what we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is adjourned: 'Recommendation by the City of Athens and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u221	Mr President, if this parliamentary amendment is incorporated, we will not be able to vote on it. If they are separately, we can go to the 'partners'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u222	We are talking about the parliamentary amendment. It has been incorporated into the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u223	I can see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u224	Good. Open the system, you can start the electronic vote and if one of the Members needs help, here are the services at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u225	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u226	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u227	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Reflection Recommendation of the City of Athens and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and all of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u229	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S2-commons.u230	With the consent of the House at 23.23 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 10 May, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
