ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 27-6-2018, PRACTICAL PRACULES' minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PPA's minutes, of Wednesday 27 June 2018, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Authorisation mechanism, state supervision, general conditions for the implementation of the Transport Equivalent (M.I.I.) and other provisions’.]] Before entering the debate of topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me tell the House on Friday, 29 June 2018. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1858-25-2018 topical question of how to introduce into higher education due to a number of contradictory statements made by the Government by MP Larissa of New Democracy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1845/21-6-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Extending the second phase of the expansion of the telecommunications distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia". 3. The 1846-22-2018 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lack of democratic student representation in the EAW". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1859-25-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Selective application of the law on experimental schools - Connecting Ralls of Experimental Municipal Schools with the Zannio Experimental Gymnasium of Piraeus". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1803/12-2018 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "In the air the work of the Committee for the Study of Education's Finances". 3. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'Does the government, for the sake of creditors, oversee the regulated net of protecting the interest of the debts of the overdue households?'. 4. The 1752-5-6-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Administrative School of Business and Tourism Studies". Another pending government of SYRIZA - ANEL. 5. The 1741/4-6-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the impact of the measure on Greek exports. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 6058-17-2018 question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The PPC of TWG is threatening with power cuts - at risk for crops." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fifth question under number 1835/19-6-2018 in the first cycle of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the Athens Parliament Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Integration of all forms of multiple sclerosis in the table of irreversible diseases". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, multiple sclerosis according to the medical community is an illness that is irreversible, incurable, constantly evolving and with numerous symptoms. You know that. There's so many symptoms and so much for a patient, that it's called "pigprint". As every man has a fingerprint, he has a symptom of the disease if he suffers from it. You know, too, well that the drugs that exist do not stop the disease simply extend the time interval between the crises it has. The Ministry is on the list of irreversible diseases - and it is concerned and concerned, Mr Minister, I have said this again, and I say it again and now - two of the five main forms of multiple sclerosis, those which have in particular the problems relating to mobility or weaknesses, as we can call it the issue of sufferers. But you also know very well that another large part of the forms of illness that do not have any apparent movement problems to be included in the list, as you have included them, and which concern about about the calculations - I am not sure of that, as I read - 80-85% of the patients, are not included in this list that you have included in the Ministry - and it is a good measure - because the symptoms of patients do not lead to the image of dyskinesia or absolute immobilisation, wheelchairs, etc. This, however, creates a problem. It creates one - I would say - disharmony in dealing with the issue, because all other forms of multiple sclerosis have extremely unpleasant symptoms. They have symptoms with orthocyclic disorders, aesthetic disorders, linguistic disorders, visual disturbances and so on. So I ask you whether the information I make is correct and the comments I make are correct if the Ministry intends to include in the list of irreversible diseases all forms of multiple sclerosis and not just the two that you have all set. Because this is about one performance - I would say, I do not know whether the term I will use is correct - of a justice against the sufferers, in relation to the care of the state. How can the Ministry deal with this? Or is he thinking of dealing with it the way I put it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Lykoudis, and in a previous debate, which I recently asked Mrs Papakostas for disability, what I said is that the government - and every government - must deal with these issues with the sensitivity you have developed. We are also taking into account the rules of science, of course, because we are not the ones judged of disability, but the doctors, who, based on the rules that apply and the participation of the medical companies, have shaped the last table. There was the previous of 2012, who considered forty all and all the disabilities that are not reversible. These have now reached a hundred forty - three, and a treatment is being made to reach fifty. You said, too, that you consider this measure to be positive, that we also incorporated these diseases of multiple sclerosis missing from this table. They joined for the first time in this table that we formed last autumn. Our decision has been implemented since the beginning of the year. And there, in fact, multiple sclerosis is part of irreversible illnesses. However, we must also see the view of society, how society sees the disease, because it is not necessarily the sufferer who is unfit to participate in work, in society, in the recognition of the skills that all other people have. And that is the main thing to see culturally, politically and socially. Because there is an interaction between the sufferer and society. I think I am entitled to say that society is often more disabled in the treatment of disability than in the ability of the disabled to be in society. These things, unfortunately, are at a bad rate at the expense of people who are suffering. In order not to expand, however, on matters that are not only philosophical, but also of a practical nature, as to how society treats people who are suffering, I must say that, in my view - I think you would agree - the main thing we should do is to give opportunities for integration and participation and not to expel these people. Because this condition, as noted by you, has a variation in incapacity - it starts with 35% disability and increases up to 100% - the two diseases that we have all done are really cases which make a series of jobs banning and impossible to integrate human beings into his economic and social life. However, I will tell you that cases of such illness can also cause other symptoms, which are in the disability table. You also said that multiple sclerosis is a condition that has a range of consequences, a vedal of weaknesses, health problems, and even psychotics and a number of issues facing neurological science. Thus, in the table of illnesses, the effect of multiple sclerosis on the incidence of disability can be caused. But we have said again, and when we have included multiple sclerosis in the table of irreversible diseases, that we will constantly monitor how this table works and to the extent that there is an improvement, there will be. That's how it happened with these diseases, because the original painting didn't contain them. The 2012 table certainly did not contain them. However, the one we made in the autumn of 2017 also did not contain them as irreversible. We put them in after two months. After seeing the bodies representing these people to insist, we were opposed by the doctors' committees and convinced them that we should include them, because without their own agreement we could not do so. We'll keep an eye on it. With the progress of science we will always see these issues and with the progress of society that the individual should at last see as a fit person and not as incompetent. It is a question of participation and democracy and psychological support for these people being integrated. You saw that by way of a very specific provision we gave the possibility for patients suffering from mental illness to be able to get the pension and work...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have gone far beyond the prototype. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u8	I want to repeat something. And it has no political defiance of what I'm saying. It is the reality and when there is such a reality, I recognize it. It is positive that the effort you made to widen the list and add even more categories of sufferers to this case. I say that because I want to start by having a good conversation, so that we don't take her on any other paths. I repeat that every patient - I think you know and it's no accident what they say 'is patient', it's his fingerprint that - has its own symptom, it's huge. Also, it is obvious that all those suffering from the symptoms of the disease have problems in the way they operate in society as a whole. I hope you haven't misunderstood. From some remarks you made, I'm afraid - I'm not disturbed, I'm sorry - that you think my position has something to do with the idea that all those suffering from the hardship of our fellow people are not able to stand in society. Away from me, any such thoughts. On the contrary, I say it's a big range of sufferers. It is not only those in the car who are the wheelchair, who cannot move, to do nothing more than to do what they do from the car. All the rest stand sufficiently in society, but with serious problems and irreversible symptoms, incurable. This gives them the difficulty, gives them the weight, to have in front of them every time the problems that may result in a development of the disease. So I'm saying this. I suppose you understood that with my question, I have not mentioned any allowances at all, I have not mentioned at all whether the state should have financial care - these are on the basis of the regulations that exist, the disability rate, etc. - neither the association that I came into contact with and told me, speaking with you, to help solve a few problems, demanded or asked me to demand benefits. Instead, people say this: we are standing in society, we know that we will not be well, give us the opportunity not to trouble ourselves, that is, like the rest of us, not to go every two or three years in the CSR to confirm our disability, as everyone else is called a crippled life. Give us the possibility of not suffering, Mr Minister, not subsidisation. It is not an economic problem, and that is why it is even more worthy of attention and interest for these people. So I'm saying - and I'm closing down, I have no reason to expand my second language - this. Pay attention to the issue and try to include - and I obviously have no special relationship with the issue - the whole of the sufferers in the possibility of not suffering, in their facilitation in relation to their visits to the CIPs at all times. That's what they're asking, don't ask for allowances or money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u9	Mr Petropoulos has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u10	Mr Lykoudis, under no circumstances would I give the impression that you have such an approach. On the contrary, I think we fully agree on the approach to the issue. I didn't even feel at a time that we didn't agree on thinking. I am simply explaining a few things from the point of view of medical science, the positions of the World Health Organisation, which has identified some aspects and our political will, which even wants to overcome them. Because in 2012 - it has not even been six years since - the special table of these diseases did not contain all this at all. I'm not saying we're more sensitive than them. It simply did not contain them in conditions that the country had all this pressure over its head to constantly limit costs, so that even health is affected and indifference for people is increased. Maybe that's why, not because the people who made this painting weren't sensitive, because they also participated there. We have therefore fought and said that it is not possible to have forty diseases that are considered incurable and irreversible. That is why it is not because what you said should not be the case, that every one of them should go to CEPD to be afflicted - it is torture, it is unacceptable to allow such a situation to happen in the way it was done - we have changed it. We have convinced ourselves within the new fields and at the level of freedom that we have acquired in this period, to say that this cannot continue. It's a disgrace. We convinced them. But multiple sclerosis is a condition - I know a lot of people, there are a lot of people around us who do a great job, they are healthy - which it doesn't even seem. You said it yourself, there's no sign. You see the other guy fine, and he actually has a problem. He could have a 35% disability. There are many of my colleagues who are doing an excellent job as lawyers, there are too many who are doing a serious job as an employee. He is not necessarily incapable of working. The disability has two sides. It's medicine, which is treated in terms of illness. The kidney, if you miss it, is disability, and it may also be serious, but it doesn't make you incapable of working. If you miss a leg, you can't be a builder to climb the scaffolds or be a driver. I don't know what technology will do in the future. But you can be a very good doctor, a very good employee. So I see these two arms. One disability as a medical condition, the second as an insurance need to cover insurance where you have to pay insurance, pension or benefits. I'll finish this. In the area of responsibility that I am responsible for as a State Secretary, we are doing so, that is to say we are covering insurance all cases and in that sense we are also of interest. I imagine they would have told you that we have assured them - I have seen the federation twice this year, I do not remember what the instrument is - and we have discussed that everything that is going to happen will be seen and reviewed at all times. In fact, I would like to give you a briefing now. Soon I will make a decision on the extra-institutional allowance that was not provided for, to people suffering from multiple sclerosis when it is to that extent, multiple sclerosis, which cannot be served. The extra-institutional allowance is an important cost, but necessary for this man, the one who needs help. And we'll do that. It wasn't foreseeable. We're doing it. This demonstrates that we are constantly observing and monitoring closely, as you have stressed that we must do this. And that's how we'll see it. I hope we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u11	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will continue with the third with the number 1844/21-6-2018 timely question of the first cycle of the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Emergent need for the subordination of OSE railway lines in Larissa". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem of rail lines in Larissa is a very old issue. The truth is, he's cutting the city halfway through. From the south and southeast side of the city the whole traffic is practically cut off from the railway line. There are only two unequal crossings, one of which serves traffic within the city, and for three kilometres the rail line is in fact going through residences, literally in housing, creating huge problems. The present regime is relatively idyllic compared with what comes. Eight passenger trains on average pass through the line today, twenty-five to thirty heavy, long freight trains are expected to pass through the city in 2025, as - as you know - the 'COSCO' will very soon run on the lines and carry a large number of containers. Six to eight hours a day is expected to pass wagons through the railway line, with what this involves both traffic congestion in the city and spatial problems, but also environmental problems for residents and homes in the region. In 1985 the first five-year development programme of the OSE, which is still being carried out, was drawn up with the projects pending in the Domokos region and the delivery of tunnels in Kallidro. That plan provided for the transfer of all activities, except for the passenger station, out of town. In other words, it provided for the transport of the engine station, the freight station, the warehouses, the manoeuvre station in Mezurlo in Gyrton. None of this has happened, except for the construction of an unequal crossing, which is constantly confusing with endless car lines. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So the big question is this: the situation is inviolable and, as I have said before, it will become much worse in the next few years. The question that arises is what the OSE's programming is for the specific problem that is important. I would remind you that Larissa is the largest urban formation that crosses the OSE rail line in the mainland. The biggest nuisance that it produces in houses is located in Larissa. At times the subordination, the displacement of the network outside the city, has been proposed. They have been proposed - and there have been promises - underground readings that have never been done. The question is, first of all, what exactly does it plan - if it plans - the OSE on the subject of lines and their passage through the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the problem is exactly the way you describe it. It is a fact that this rail line which is still missing, and well, loaded with more goods transport over a period of seven years or six years, is a line planned and finally completed in 2012. The fact is that this line did not include any welfare, despite the fact that it is a design that started in '85, but over time new elements were entered within what was considered, and finally ended in 2012. Despite the fact that we are talking about a line almost last decade, it did not include welfare for all that you say. The fact is that the OSE partly as a supplier and partly as a diligent person, has taken some steps to clean up and repair some of these three readings and to further take care of the fence in height of one. The Commission's proposal is based on Article 100a of the EEC Treaty and on Article 100a of the EEC Treaty. It also plans, as it sends me here with its note, to extend the fence to about two and a half meters high on the basis of concrete and everything else. But these are temporary measures. That's a fact. A number of suggestions are being made to the Ministry. As you said, there are proposals for grounding the railway line around two miles [2 km] from the four kilometers [4 km] in which the railroad passes through the city. There is also the opinion that the vertical axles should be grounded to the height of Agia and Volos Avenue. There is, on the other hand, the proposal to shift some kilometres out of the freight station and the passenger station, with a branch of passenger which will connect after the city to that point. On the fourth side, there is a consultation, which takes place about a year ago between GAIAOSE and the Municipality of Larissanes, which is essentially aimed at exchanging properties. This is a real estate of GAIAOSE, which has twenty-five acres within the town-planning fabric, for the benefit of the municipality and in exchange for the municipality to grant an area of about 100 acres near an area of GAIAOSE, which provides for the relocation of the freight and passenger station with parallel construction of a branch of passenger to Larissa. All of this has different economic assessments and efficiency assessments for our fellow man. We believe that a comparative study of these should be carried out. That is why I sent a letter to ENGNATIA in its study section on the road section of these two main axles, and to ERGOSE on the feasibility study on either the grounding or the displacement or the grounding of the two axles I told you about. I believe that the best solution for our fellowman, the inhabitants of Larissa and the visitor to Larissa will emerge from this comparative approach and, of course, the best solution to the country's budgets. I have the feeling that this study will be completed in the fall. And from there on we will be able to speak more specifically, to see what is best on the practicable, in relation to the outcome we are seeking, a solution and to be able to choose it and find the appropriate financial instruments then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will mark in the fall and come back. You will allow me to be very vigilant, because similar promises from the administration of the OSE have been repeatedly heard. Already in November I have an answer to a report I made on a very unpleasant event. A fourteen-year-old kid was thundered by 10,000V in the urban fabric. I'm compelled to disprove what the OSCE carried you. There has been absolutely nothing to secure the lines. The barrier is not complete. This is a clear vineyard in the city. There's been no vegetation cleansing. We'll literally be eaten by the snakes as long as we stay by the lines. The picture for the last three years has been a complete abandonment picture, in terms of security alone. Because for environmental reasons, you did not say anything, because obviously there is no design for soundproofing. We are talking about dwellings less than 20 meters from the engine room and the line, which were smelling oil before and nuisance is lasting. There's no programming of any kind. For the 20 years, which includes, unfortunately, the last three years, the headline is: "Full contempt for the OSE in the city of Larissa". The issues concerning the exchange of the land and the municipality have nothing to do with shifting the lines. OSE does not have twenty - five acres in the city, it has hundreds of acres in the city. The line is not a line that passes. It is followed by many large free spaces, lands it has occupied during the years, outdoor storage of rolling stock, machinery spaces, lines, manoeuvre stations, etc. There was the lightning of the kid at the manoeuvring station which is inside the urban fabric. Unfortunately, there is no programming. You told me what Mr. Petrakis wrote in November again, that if there is no basement, there will be a displacement, and if there will be no displacement, we'll subrogate the lines. There is no - and I'm sorry about that - any kind of programming. Let me remind you that this year your government - and it has done very well - finally, if you want, after years of claiming has called for the grounding in the famous Sepolis tunnel, namely the grounding of the largest part of the rail network in Athens. There is no premeditation, as you practically admitted. There is no study and reference of any kind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close by saying that I do not question your good intention. I'll keep in the fall. I have a question marker, which autumn is gonna be. The railway line in the city is a major cancer and traffic and economic and economic and environmental one day, and I am afraid I will call you one day, if you want, to visit the level crossings. The main crossing is a level. The crossing of traffic from Athens and Volos is manual, with manvela, in the 1950s. There is no justification for such infrastructure. There is no excuse for the fact that there are whole parts of the railway line that are completely intact, against houses and you see children playing next to 10,000 V and entering the lines, as if there were no barriers, apart from the OSE's indifference to the city and its infrastructure within Larissa's urban fabric. There must be something urgent about the insurance and cleaning of the lines, which has nothing to do with the image you were given. If you speak to Larissa's local players, they will tell you that "We have not seen a single drachma for investments in the block, cleansing for many, many years". There is no study of environmental nuisance - soundproofing, planting - there is no such planning, and there is certainly no planning for what will be a definitive and long-term solution. You're right, it's expensive and difficult. But, as in Sepolis and Platamonas in Pieria, the lines were grounded after the residents were claimed for environmental reasons on both sides, after years of programming, it can also be done in Larissa after years of programming, as long as it starts discussing and studying the issue. I will come back in the autumn because I really do not believe that, after thirty years of paradoxical tactics of the Greek Railway Agency, there will be any progress on this matter. There is one acidification at this time, because there have been two deaths on the railway line and four others on the adjacent node on the old highway, because the whole traffic is gathering there, but I fear that once they are forgotten - and I hope that there will be no relapse - these events will recur to the characteristic indifference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u18	The OSE assures that the only point where there is no fence is the one covered by dense vegetation. And as you said, it is one of the ways to separate lines with surroundings from dense vegetation. It's two hundred and fifty meters where there's a dense vegetation. The rest assures that there are 1,30 meters under the fence regulation. As we asked in a previous accident event to intensify the measures, it reads: "In the northern part of the city, after Larisa's central station, the OSE has committed itself to placing a heavier, heavier type of fence...", what I said before, "...higher than concrete in replacement fences described...", with 1.30 meters, i.e. "... for this intervention to reach 2.3 to 2.5 meters in length, a tendering issue is being drawn up and soon the work will be announced". I would ask you, please, for the Minutes, for the writings to be left and bound and, if you wish, sometimes bring those who have to be vigilant, the letter I sent to ERGOSE and to EGNATIA in the name of their competence, or to the rail or road track. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] It is a fact that we need to include predictions. The predictions are not easy. The interim solution is the good fence and the activation of all the nodes, the passages that exist. It is true that this shift towards the freight station is a shift that should have been made many years and decades ago. Indeed, it has been foreseen since 1985. No one ever put it on paper, perhaps because there were conflicting views. Even today that GAIAOSE is talking about is proposing other things, ERGOSE but also OSE. That is why I have had to send this letter to make the necessary requisitions and synergies and the study to include all the proposals, in comparative terms and layout, and to choose the best for our fellow man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Subsequently, with number 1882/26-2018, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation that has been formulated about the problem of waste management in Corfu and Paxos". Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u20	Minister, the situation that the people of Corfu and Paxos are experiencing is nightmare because of the garbage that actually create mountains in many parts of the island, where they are literally small scattered, uncontrolled dumps everywhere. They rupture fires and the atmosphere is stunning, with a direct danger to the health of residents and workers in cleanliness. In the face of this explosive situation, the garbage is collected and planted on an adjoining site of the municipality, next to the Temploni HYTA, which has been oversorted at such a point that wastewater is not yet able to approach there to empty waste. The JRC has in good time identified the risk to the deadlock that we would have reached today. We tabled a question last February and then your answer, Minister, gave no solution to the acute issues of cleanliness on the island. You, like previous and local authorities, have become more and more aware of the privatization of waste collection and waste management. Proof of this is that in the last three months, two contractors on the island took over 1 million for the collection. There were two contractors, one with 820 thousand euros and the other with 240 000 euros. While still under fast track procedures for the transfer of parcels to the Lefkimni CYTA, there are 240 thousand euros. In other words, where some time ago SYRIZA said that HYTA Lefkimis can't work because it's environmental crime, today it's being transported trash. What's changed, Minister? It is huge, criminal and time-consuming, the responsibilities of all governments and local and regional authorities, who have consciously left us here today and in front of the mountains of garbage to blackmail the people, to accept such solutions. Of course, these solutions with the presence of MATs, which since Tuesday morning have taken over the island. They blackmail residents to accept these solutions at the expense of their health, at the expense of the environment. All of this is done with a clear aim of implementing the policy of the Government and the European Union, namely the handover of the management of waste to private individuals, while the municipality, who literally squeezes these policies, on the other hand, with a great deal of hypocrisy, says that it does not have the necessary staff to clean up, but talk, which is a matter of demanding workers to clean up for permanent and stable work. Minister, in the face of this situation the following questions arise: What measures will the government take to find suitable space and new HITAs that meet all the requirements for safe placement of the garbage on the island? To close HYTA in Templelon now, which is a real health bomb. Do not use the illegal HYTATA - Lefkimi CHY, who has had to be restored for a long time and now you want to carry tied garbage, which is raw. This will cause huge problems. Also, do not put any new burdens on the backs of the people's families through the compensation fees in favour of business groups active in the area of waste collection. To ensure that all workers in the clean-up area have full working and insurance rights and that, in particular, health and safety measures are strengthened in the workplace, because, unfortunately, we have many accidents and even accidents in the area of clean-up workers lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraite, to agree from now on that the situation in Corfu is nightmare and not just in the last few years. It is an image that we see grow, continue, threatening health, local economy and jobs. Because I am aware of your sensitivity to jobs, I tell you that if the picture of garbage undermines the local economy of Corfu, which is basically tourists, it also directly affects jobs, because I see a reading of the health of the populace. Health is for everyone, both in the folk and in the non-popular layers. That's a priority. Let's get things started. By 2015 we had eight uncontrolled waste disposal sites, HSY, of which our country has paid a lot of fines and will still pay as long as it does not restore them. Seven were restored and one more left in the Paxes. The HYTAD in Templon no longer accepts waste and the HYTAD in Lefkimia, which was completed, never works. At the end of 2015, there is for the first time - and this is part of the Greek data - the formation, approval of the National Waste Management Plan and, respectively, in 2016, regional plans were formulated, thus the one concerning Corfu. This design provides for transitional solutions, parcelrs, sorting systems to proceed with proper management, environmentally-friendly and man-friendly, recycling at source. Within this second phase, the transitional phase provides for the operation of non-HYTAFs, but of HYTOMs in Lefkim, which is in all fairness and on it, that is, if you agree with other proposals, which, in a provocative, unacceptable way, suggest that the waste of the hundreds of thousands of people of Corfu should be transferred to Kosani. So that's the suggestion? I am saying this because I have not heard any proposal from you at this time. The data is well known to everyone. There is no resident, businessman, worker, a political party that doesn't know what things are like in Corfu. Here everyone has to assume their responsibilities, small or large power, small or large party. Do you agree that a solution should be found for waste on the basis of the current responsibility laid down by the Law of the First Degree of Government within the limits of the municipality of each region and regional unit? Therefore, for the solution of the problem within Corfu you are not placed. We, therefore, have no mood, nor any MATs, to send or to collide. We have exhausted all the room for dialogue, but what needs to be implemented is the PSID, which provides for a transitional - I repeat - operation of Lefkimi as a CYPTO rather than a CYTO. It has nothing to do with the previous situation. The state currently provides the municipality with the full financial opportunity. The municipality has submitted studies on the final solution both to the Ministry of Finance and to the Regional OPCW. So there is no excuse at this time for the work not to go any further. He's got to move on. On this, then, you must unite your voice with those who do not really want to destroy everything today in Corfu. Unless you want to silage the shops, the various mechanisms, who want to speculate against the citizens, asking the state to subsidise the shipment of waste from Corfu to Kosani. You know very well - and I conclude - that the responsibility for management is in Grade 1 and the issues of the safety of workers in waste. There was an accident in 2016. On the basis of this accident, the Labour Inspectorate, who had carried out her audits, had gone to the base of the accident. First and foremost, the responsibility for the safety of workers lies with local authorities. It seems to me here that the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Patoulis, came out to make statements yesterday about the safety of workers, when he has not sent for a year, as the Secretary-General for Labour, Mr Nefeloudis, a representative of the CEDEFOP, to the Council on safety and hygiene at the waste management sites. And since I'm talking about waste and about the president of the CEDEFOP, Mr. Patoulis, he was discovered in his municipality having illegal CIDs, where he was sedating fire for a week, a few days ago. In order to understand that everyone has to assume their responsibilities. The government has assumed its responsibilities. We're at a critical moment. So strengthen your powers, in order to reduce the situation, to move forward with the definitive solutions, which are compatible with health protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have not responded to any of the main demands of the island's inhabitants. All you mentioned is that the JRC has no place for the management of garbage. He has a seat, Minister. It also refers to the question and I will tell you. Of course, you are trying to get away from your responsibilities. We ask you in particular. What changed the last time, and HYTAH, Lefkimni, is now appropriate, while some time ago he was inappropriate? For us, this is not a surprise, of course. Your Government, and in this area, best serves business interests, because the management of garbage is a glorious field for increasing the profits of capital. The responsibilities of today's SYRIZA - ANEL, the regional and municipal authority of SYRIZA - People's Unit are enormous. We have mentioned this, Minister. Since yesterday, the municipal authority is double-exposed, because at the municipal council meeting that took place on Monday night, if I remember correctly, he said to all tons that he is not going to call the police and now he's going to the local media on the island that there is a letter to get the MATs to enforce the order. Indeed, the responsibilities of both the previous governments, the PASOK and the New Democracy, which, like you, are conscious of, have led the current situation to reach this deadlock, the issue of the management of garbage, so that they can become easy prey in the hands of business groups. We told you how much money - close to 1.5 million already - in recent months have been given to private individuals. This, in our opinion, is your fair development, which will be won by everyone, the memorial era, which will be imposed for the good of the people, with bats and MMs. Because that's the reality. That's what you did to Corfu. As I mentioned, on Tuesday morning there was a diversion of MAT platoons to deal with the "eviated people", defending his life, his health and his children. That is why we say that your anti-population policy will go hand in hand with repression and violence. Of course, you did. More specifically, the local SYRIZA on the island of Corfu, but also the Prime Minister, when he visited as President of SYRIZA the island and Lefkimmi, listen to what he had said about the operation of the HYTH. He said that it is indeed a health bomb for residents and the environment. In particular, Mr Tsipras said in Lefkimmi: 'No napkin in the HYYY of Lefkimi'. What changed today from 'not a paper towel' to tons of garbage, to bats, to MATs and to arrests? In order to be clear here, Minister, we are talking about the arrests of the people's movement, the unions, which are fighting and not about those who, perhaps, want to cause problems and misrepresent the struggle of the people. The workers, the people's layers of the island, must see clearly and draw conclusions, that the policy of entrepreneurial interest will go hand in hand - by hand and pass through fire and iron. That's the reality. They'll break anyone who disagrees, anyone who puts obstacles to their plans. And now, I'll say about the position of the JRC. We say that the working people must not take their heads down, first of all, in the face of terrorism, which you are trying to impose. To hamper decisions that break his life. To combat privatisation policy for waste management. To demand a scientific investigation of new sites - this is our proposal - with strict compliance with the eligibility criteria. Fight for solutions in the light of modern popular needs and not for the profits of business groups, with respect for the environment, public health and natural resources, with scientific planning to fight for a single state waste management body. This is our position, Minister, but your position is far from these problems. I specifically told you to answer that. Mr. Prime Minister said he can't operate this HYPY. The question, then, is specific: Have you changed something since then and you are opening the way again, with the presence of the MATs carrying the trucks and raw these garbage, which will be transported there before they are processed, Minister? It is a specific question: What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u26	Mr Moraite, I have tried to explain to you - but you obviously do not want to understand it or do not understand it - that other things are the concept of HYTAF and other HYTHY. We had disagreed and disagreed on the infrastructure that exists there in Lefkimmi in the country of Lefkada. That is quite clear and we insist on that, which is why we are talking about a transitional operation, until the work of the permanent management solution is finalised and carried out as a CFP. That makes a huge difference. I don't understand how you don't understand that. But I asked you a question and it matters that question if you know things about Corfu. You want the waste to be transported out of Corfu? You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u27	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u28	Because the basis of this proposal has been undermining, over the last few years, the attempt to operate a transitional solution, and therefore the final management has been under way. So say it clearly. You're saying you don't want it. If you don't want it, you should record it, you should join forces with those who don't support all this speculative game, because that's the profitable game. You are denounced here attempts to privatize. There are no such things, you know that very well, unless you refer to contractors who operate the parcelrs, which is because there is no such infrastructure in the municipality. But as you say privatisation or not, I will repeat something that I have often said in this Chamber, that it has been - after eight, nine, years - the tender for permanent recruitment to cleanliness, which has been completed - the so-called 3K of the ADP - on the basis of the demands and needs that the municipalities themselves have asked for. So that's what you're going through with it. If this is not the truest, fullest and right fortification of self-government, against those seeking to privatise waste management, what else is it? As far as the position of the local SYRIZA is concerned, I would refer you to today's communication, to see clearly what they say. I'm waiting to see your own announcements. I therefore believe - and I repeat - that no one seeks these solutions to be given by the presence of police forces. But no one can close eyes to this sanitary bomb, in this situation today in Corfu, which makes around the world and undermines, not only the economy of the island, but the overall image of Greece. And in this front, we cannot stay indifferent. So, in a decisive, correct way, we will move along these steps, which have been approved as design by local society. This planning was not imposed by the Government. The RCF was approved by the relevant local bodies in the region, the municipality, etc. If it is the responsibility of everyone, who is responsible, to discuss them, not to hide the responsibility, not to ignore it. But, from there on, on such burning issues, there are no second thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be discussing the first question under No 1852-25-2018 of the first cycle of the Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject of the "Civil Market of Chalkida". In his question Mr Excellency, the Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Lydia Connordou. Mr Georgios Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will insist that this question is a timely one, although it is afflicted - and I will quote this one below - and it concerns the Chalkida Municipal Market. The Municipal Market of Chalkida is an important part of the city's history and a remarkable architectural complex, built in two phases. In 1885 the initial section was built at a simple neoclassical rate and was supplemented in 1931 with a new "Bauhaus", following an architectural competition won by the academic Solon Cydoniatis. For these reasons in 2006, the Ministry of Culture described the Municipal Market of Chalkida as a monument, published by the FEK 604/15-5-2006 and in accordance with the provisions of Law 3028/2002. It should be noted that the municipalities, which became municipal authorities at the time, had appealed to the Council of State with a request to annul the decision in view of the complete demolition of the Municipal Market. Still. The Central Council of Modern Monuments of the Ministry of Culture met in 2014 and again gave an opinion in favour of its characteristic building as a monument. Today, with the architectural contest, we have received repeated complaints from citizens about "a playful in the knowledge of the municipal authority". At the same time, it is published in local media, photos showing demolition of construction materials, deterioration, etc., to such an extent that it increases the risk of collapse of part of the building. Indeed, the image presented by the Municipal Market is totally abandoned. In fact, it recently collapsed a building block, with no luck injurious citizens, while, for once, a civic-initial group filed press reports to the prosecutor, asking for the city of Chalkida's criminal prosecution for omissions and indifference, which endanger human lives. Ask yourself, Minister: How do you plan to act to effectively pirate the Municipal Market until it is rebuilt to stop becoming a shell of strangers who abuse it every day? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that the Municipality of Chalkida, owned by the Municipal Market, fulfils its obligations as laid down in Article 11 of Law 3028/2002 on the conservation, promotion and protection of the Monument and, at the same time, comply with the relevant recommendations of the Ministry of Culture and the Office of New Monuments, which have been addressed to him on several occasions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u31	The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr. Lydia Conniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. As you mentioned, Mr Precious, the Municipal Market of Chalkida is indeed a typical example of some architectural trends of the modern movement. He has references to classicalism, new art and the Messopolitan War. It has visitors' belts and it is an area that gives a cultural value to the city of Chalkida. The Memorandum was described in 2014, as you mentioned, and it concerns the designation of this frontal wing on Neophytos Street, the shell of the complex, i.e. the entire contour and the volume of the remaining parts of the first and second phases, as well as the use. The use was established compatible with the historical nature of the building. It should be pointed out here that the building complex of the Municipal Market of Chalkida is owned by the Municipality of Chalkida, where according to the archaeological law it is exclusively obliged to ensure the immediate execution of the maintenance, fixing or protection of a ready monument, without delay, at its own expense and with the supervision and suggestions of the Ministry's service. After the designation, the municipality proceeded to an architectural contest for the proposal to restore and reuse the market. The architectural proposal of the first prize of the architectural competition, as a premeditate, has already been approved, with comments from the Central Council of Modern Monuments in 2017. Pending the submission of the final restoration study for its approval by the Central Council and the start of the restoration work, there is an obligation on the municipality to take the necessary measures, to protect the necessary elements, as well as to prevent risks for pedestrians and transitors, in particular the support, i.e. the fence and protection of the building. Unfortunately, this has not been done. And recently, on the basis of the new cases of vandalism that took place in April 2018 and the collapse of the section, to which you referred, the relevant regional agency of the Ministry again pointed out to the services of the municipality the urgency of taking protection and preservation measures for the complex. In addition, the competent central office of the Ministry has established an Article 41 Committee to examine the preparedness elements of the complex. The autopsy was carried out on 4 May 2018 and the relevant practice was drawn up, for which the Central Council of Modern Monuments unanimously gave its opinion on 17 May with the following terms: Submission of a subsistence study, fence and 24-hour market surveillance, cleaning with diligence of the building's reinforcements, subsurbation of stone parts, investigation of the stone strengths, assessment of the building's ability and following the proposed interventions, detailed design and photographic imaging of the existing state of the building and for the future restoration, storage of the data collected, such as scalings, metal lamps, etc. The Ministry of Culture therefore does everything in its power to suggest the necessary conditions and movements to be done to protect the monument of Chalkida. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u34	Madam Minister, three to four days ago, the minutes that came out of the meeting of the Central Council on 17 May concerned a request from the mayor of Halkidsen for the removal of parts of the Municipal Market, mainly due to the risk. It is a fact, reading from the Minutes, that you did propose some measures that the mayor must take. I think you should continue to monitor how these are being implemented. One serious question is whether he has submitted you with the subsurface study, which is necessary in order not to collapse sections of the Municipal Market and destroy the monument. I would also say that this picture of the collapse creates very bad impressions among the citizens, beyond the risks of injuries. Because where he collapsed, the pieces fell in the middle of the road. There was a risk, indeed, and luckily there was no problem. Of course, here they are trying to justify those who insisted on demolition of the market. I directly say that there are interests there. In my view, the municipality should be strengthened, that is to say, to find the financial tools for moving forward in the architectural competition. For, indeed, staying in this situation, the fact that it is not adequately kept and that there are signs that are dangerous to collapse, must be dealt with in time and restored to the monument. Mr President, I am tabling recent photos of the market in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Aristotle, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u36	I would like to stress how important your interest, Mr Excellency, is in finding a solution to this chronic problem of the Chalkida Municipal Market. I would also like to make a special reference to the citizens' initiative group to save the market. It is important for citizens to be alert, because without it we cannot have a proper result. However, I stress that the Ministry has stressed in writing and repeatedly to the Municipality of Chalkida, as the owner of the complex, the need to take a series of measures to protect the complex. Some of these measures have been taken, but not entirely. For example, the fence that would protect the monument from vandalism and the extra damage has not been done. And that's not a very big cost. The municipality should move on to this in order to protect not only the monument but also the passing citizens from danger. It is obvious that the Ministry is not urgent. And what he thinks about, he's done it, like self-conscious, exhibitions, instructions under the archaeological law. We must stress the responsibility of the Municipality of Halkidene as owner, as well as stressing that a series of complaints have indeed been made by the initiative group - which are still unanswered - for the lack and preoccupation of the municipality with regard to the issue of preservation, preservation and, above all, the risk to human life. I agree that we need to be united and coordinated to make efforts in order to proceed with the city's final study. The Ministry of Culture will contribute to the approval of the study as soon as it is submitted by the municipality, and will monitor its implementation, so that the monument will be a burning site for the city, because the city no longer has any other opportunity to lose historical buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u37	Next, the third, with number 1881/26-2018, is a topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation of the workers in GGI and the rights of the authors of its members. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are coming back with another question about'since' GDPI, the sins of which are paid by workers living in the nightmare of unemployment and, of course, by the creators, I would say - the Greek song. For a month now, the authorisation of GNI has been withdrawn by your own decision, while the workers have been unpaid for several months. A section of these workers, who have been part of the legal support of GNI and who represented it in the trials with users, have ceased since December 2017, that is, for the last six months - and while these trials have been running and evolving - to take the travel and representation costs so that they can be in them trials, several of which have also been in provincial courts. These workers now also bear personal responsibility for their presence in the cases being tried and, because they cannot be present, because of the increased, of course, costs of movement and performance, the courts are now coming and they are putting fines, which are up to EUR 420 for libertarianity. So where they were owed, they're also unpaid, they're fines, they're also getting the ox. These workers and their association and the Minister of Justice, Mr Contonis, have also been addressed to you, but so far they have not been answered. We will now be waiting to hear your answer. Of course, this issue is related to the authors themselves because, you understand, the loss of these rights has an impact on both the receipts and the percentages of the authors themselves. So we are asking you, and we hope that we have a positive answer, what are you going to do so that at least these fines are not imposed and, of course, not only are we going to ensure that these people's working conditions are guaranteed, but also that the wages paid by the authors of the relevant trials are guaranteed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr Delis, this is indeed a peculiar case of workers involved in irrational and unresolved conditions. The Ministry of Culture took into account the findings of the audits carried out by sound auditors in GDPI, as well as the recommendation of the OPI, as provided for in the relevant legislation, and, as you said, withdrew the authorisation of the GDPI, an anonymous company, as the Agency for Collective Management. Following the withdrawal of this GNI licence, the management of copyright has been entrusted, in accordance with Article 51 of Law 4481/2017, to the Special Administrator of the IPO. Subsequently, a Special Emergency Management Service was established and a temporary manager was appointed. The above delegation of rights to the special service was legally provided for as a transitional solution in order to address the issues of access to the data of the projects of the beneficiaries by way of exceptional and temporary, represented by the GNI until the collective management was undertaken by another body and, in any event, within two years at the latest. During the transition process, the Special Administrator is now called upon to deal with important issues relating, among other things, to both the rights of the former beneficiaries of GDPI, the licence of which was withdrawn, such as any revenue arising from the pending proceedings and of the employees, in particular those assigned to them by the former ATO's representation in the proceedings with users. We know the subject. It is not possible to impose fines on workers only because the company has designated them with exceptional powers, and now even to end up engaging individually, when the employer does not bear the corresponding costs of moving and presenting them. With their involvement, they are bound and pending fines. But that's not all. Especially in Athens, where there are thousands of trials in which they should be present every day, they cannot be dismantled and thus seek a new job. This is a very serious issue that we know and are concerned with. It is our plans to try and take initiatives and find a solution, although it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In addition to the measures we have taken, it should be noted that the FAO continues to exist and has an active legal status as a public limited company, irrespective of the fact that it has no licence as an independent management entity since May 2018, which was revoked. In other words, although the GNI is not legitimate in managing the rights of those who created it, it is for the cleared requirements, that is, for the previous uses, as for the courts which are currently pending, the GNI is still solely responsible. Furthermore, let us not forget that GNI is the company which, for almost eighty years, has managed copyright and precisely because of its shareholders' failure to manage and administer its shareholders and members of its board of directors, has led to a complete deadlock with many indebted, debts to beneficiaries from previous distributions, criminally prosecuted for seven felonies and finally the definitive withdrawal. With the withdrawal of the licence and the establishment of a special service, the Ministry aims to regulate the market and manage the copyright of all the beneficiaries in an effective, transparent, fair, objective and in line with international standards. All the infrastructure and know-how of the special service will be transferred to the collective management organisation which will obtain the necessary conditions to operate by its own members through a general meeting which they will choose in accordance with the provisions of Law 4481. This is therefore a peculiar case, which concerns us and we want to find a solution. It is something that does not go through exclusively from us, but we will take all the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u42	Look, Minister, it is indeed peculiar to those people who are present at the courts and represent the rights of authors. However, your answer seems to me to be literally 'empty'. They are left with what you said, that, in the end, the operation of GNI has been suspended, but as an enterprise, as a public limited company, still exists. You are staying on a general argument that we will make efforts, that is a more general issue, etc. But it's a matter of your government. Contact the Ministry of Justice, consult the competent courts, bring legislation on such cases of people who are employed, are unpaid and pay from above and fines. I think it goes beyond all logic. Of course, we had discussed this whole issue with GDP a year ago when the bill was being discussed here, Mr. 4481. We said to you that GDPI was nothing but the extreme symptom of a trade process, which was evolving - and is evolving and will evolve - even more with this bill and with the independent management entities than the collective management organisations that you voted on last summer. I think that the course of events proves the JRC's estimates of where things are being driven and even the latest developments in the area of creators - and I mean the Greek song - because in the end, while in your bill you were very strict in relation to collective management organisations, you were very galantic with the independent management entities, i.e. the large companies, which will sooner or later come to absorb these self-managers, to a large extent, collective management organisations. That is what we are living for, Minister, and you know it - with all the developments that we have in this area. However, what we want to tell you - and to remind you - is that, when we talked about GDP last year, we told you that, if you want to do something with GDP, you could bring in legislation here, which would provide financial assistance and then go through the hands of the authors themselves, so that they can manage it. This was, of course, not in your intentions and proved to be true. We have reached the present point, where the workers - who have been on a job since 1 June, as we have said before - live in the nightmare of unemployment, but these people, who are not many - are fifteen workers representing the company in the courts - are forced to pay a great deal of fines. Your answer does not cover these workers, and we are concerned about that. So we also call on the Association of these workers to step up their struggle and the rest, of course, of the labour movement - and I mean the class - to stand side by side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u44	Mr Delis, I would like here to table something that is very important from the Code of Criminal Procedure, where a fine of liberation is provided for from EUR 12 to EUR 150, depending on the court summoned by the absent witness. It is necessary, respectively, to allow an opposition to the withdrawal of the sentence, if there are reasonable grounds. We believe that by clarifying the issue and the injustice which the workers really suffer from this procedure, a fair solution is likely to be found. The judicial authorities shall carry out their tasks independently and shall be solely responsible for assessing the information and information which they have knowledge of on equal treatment and the defence of rights. However, the Ministry of Culture is following the issue through the OPI and the special body and, if necessary, we will take relevant initiatives to find a solution to this unfair involvement of workers. As regards what you said before about all the actions of the Ministry with the law and the initiatives it has taken, I would remind you that these initiatives for the creation of the special body and for the normalisation of the market have been welcomed by the majority of the creators. The government's intention is to give the necessary time so that the authors themselves can take their luck in their own hands, they themselves define their rights, as is the case in all countries and is a healthy function. He has also protected the archive that is a cultural heritage of this country. The whole tradition of the song has protected it and will deliver it where it is judged to be capable of managing this wealth. With regard to what you said about the consolidation of GDP, it has at some point become clear to everyone, despite the efforts made, that it was not possible for this company to be made, and that is why it has taken the necessary steps to create a special body in order to protect the market and, above all, to protect the rights of creators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. The second question will be discussed under No 1856/25-2018 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Exit mechanism for adjusting farmers' debts from loans from the former Agricultural Bank’. The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the question I have tabled, I would like to raise an important problem, which many chiefly-occupied farmers, who had previously received loans from the former Rural Bank for agricultural and livestock work and who have unfortunately been in a hostage after its liquidation. It is well known, Minister, that in the past the Agricultural Bank had provided a significant number of loans. After all, the economic climate at that time was different in order to support agricultural and livestock farming. Many of the beneficiaries of the loans in question, either from a choice or from the fact that they could not meet financially, did not repay the loans in question, so that the Agricultural Bank would charge them with high interest rates, the so-called ‘expenditure’, with the amount due at the end of the year being much higher than the amount of capital disbursed. We, during the 2004 governance process, fully understanding the seriousness of the situation and the difficulty that farmers had, voted for Law 3259, according to which the total amount due could not exceed three times the initial capital disbursed and received special attention for farmers under Article 39, according to which the entire amount could not exceed twice the initial capital. This legislative initiative was intended, on the one hand, to alleviate the interest on the part of borrowers and, on the other hand, to make these loans available again. However, despite the adoption of this law, it was not correct to implement and circumvent it, as in the notices sent by the Rural Bank the amount due was calculated differently - so that I am not tired - so that this law does not give the expected results. Today the problem has taken on explosive proportions. As I said at the outset, the borrowers are in hostage and need immediate intervention from yours. I have therefore tabled this timely question in order to allow the government today to clarify exactly what it will do with these hostage farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the 2004 Cereals Act, which you did vote for at the time, had provisions that helped the rural area. Unfortunately, however, he too was unable to implement, because that is what the figures show. And I say this because you tried again in 2013 - with the famous separation of the Agricultural Bank in good and bad, because there was a huge problem there with many farmers' debts that had been transferred to the clearer - for the second time to bring regulation. I said then to the House that if, Minister, you bring even one example of the application of this regulation, I will say to you "well, congratulations". There was no application there either. Therefore, particularly important interventions sometimes need to be considered if they can and must be implemented. But we are today and of course we must answer your questions. The law still applies, it must apply to what I am about to say, particularly to dealing with the loans currently in existence in the PQA. Indeed, in the account to be carried out with regard to the reduction of the debt, account will be taken of the law on arrogances, that is to say, what has been paid in addition, and will be calculated and, as you can see, there will be a significant relief in the amount that remains. We therefore have in front of us a regulation which, in fact, was opened yesterday by the platform and accepts requests from farmers, where we have tax debt arrangements for VAT income, to OGA and insurance contributions, and to banks that have closed down and are in the winding-up process. This regulation is an intervention, I would say, within the financial data of the Greek farmer, because it will not only significantly reduce his obligations, but will also enable him to control his finances. What can this arrangement include? Delete 100% of late-day interest. In addition, deletion of interest and capital on the basis of payments, as I told you in the framework of the Terrorist Law, known as Law 3259/2004. It is true that if the farmer wishes to do so, it is even possible for PQA to sell mortgages to third parties in order to repay the remaining debt. Why is it so important? In addition to the deletion of fines and surcharges, there will also be the possibility for the farmer, if he pays the sum which came out of the relevant procedure within three months, to have a write-off of 60%. If he does not have such a chance and wants to pay part, there is the possibility of paying the instalments in ten years and there, of course, remission will still reach not 60%, but 40%. So you realise that this is a very important intervention. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u50	Minister, when Mr Law 359/2004 was passed it was undoubtedly a great innovation. He gave relief to thousands of farmers. However, in order to find a way of discussing problems that have existed so far and then, you can understand that either from misappropriation by other difficulties or, if you want, from the banks and in particular from the Agricultural Bank and farmers, it has not given the solutions expected - as a whole. So today we have to deal with the problem, despite what good efforts have been made in the past. I have been informed of your initiative yesterday on the electronic ex-court platform for farmers, and of course we will be even better informed, but also the interested ones. But what must not be repeated, so that we do not talk again after years about the side effects, which Mr 3259/2004 has with this regulation, is that there are fine letters and so-called astronauts, because we are always there. We, together with this initiative on the out-of-court settlement of the debts of farmers, want a clear position on the part of the government so that there are no divergent views and interpretations that will enable these fellow citizens to continue to suffer. You have to clean the landscape, now, today, completely. So these asterisks should be clarified by the government. If the application of this arrangement to the extrajudicial settlement is loose, I am afraid it will continue. I want to say something more critical, Minister, and that is what I shall be closing down. You said it now, but I want more clarification. I told you there are cases that have been paid, they have given more money than the original chapter. These people need to know exactly what the extra money they gave would be and whether they would be returned. There must be a clear regulation and what happened with Law 359/2004 is now being taken into account. We don't start the extrajudicial compromise at all. The logic of this law must be taken into account. And if, in 2004, the logic of Law 3259 was that any charges not exceeding twice the original capital - we are talking about 2004 - you now understand in these lame times that the government's initiative in these arrangements must be much more brave. Because you spoke of 60%, I would say that you should see it much more substantially, if we want to put a solution and put a dead end to a timely issue which is afflicting thousands of farmers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u52	So let us clarify, Mr Colleague, many issues, starting with the adoption of this law. Then, if you wanted radically to deal with the issue, you should have anticipated the retroactive application of the law. From that point on, there were few people who used this law for the florists. The law was implemented in the light of the very few cases that existed. Therefore, speaking of retroactiveness before 2004 is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u53	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u54	It is no longer possible to do that. You realise that with the current banking system, especially after the interventions, and rather with the dissolution of the former Agricultural Bank, there are no such possibilities. From there on, let us see, first of all, what this regulation is about and what we have to do. The regulation is therefore aimed at the principal occupation of farmers, farmers, fishermen, farmers, etc. and related to the debts that were in the former ATE that have been to the clearer, PQA. Of course, these should have delayed payment of thirty days on 31 December 2017, when those who had already gone to the clearer then, when the good and bad bank was separated, had more than ninety days in due time, i.e. it includes all of them. There are other rural areas debts and PQA debts. To understand this, there are debts relating either to private enterprises or to cooperative activities. These can, therefore, be incorporated into the rules laid down by the extrajudicial mechanism. We, for our own part, are as many of those businesses today are operating. It is a big assumption not to lose a single activity in the rural area. So we are in contact with the clearer, as far as the units I have told you are concerned, with the operations I have told you, in the direction of helping them as far as possible to get them into the extrajudicial mechanism. Of course, this is about other banks. In particular, however, what we are interested in right now is the protection of agricultural property, land, facilities, which are related to cooperative organisations. At this time, there are thirteen in the winding-up process. We have created a working group from PQA, the Secretariat-General for the Management of Private Debt and the Ministry of Rural Development, and we are considering all possibilities of exploiting this property through the ODIAGE, the body that we have recommended for this purpose. I would like to draw attention to the farmer concerned with the regulation running. It is possible to inform either of the local offices available for informing, as regards borrowers, or of the presence, where necessary, of the PQA and of the services of the Ministry of Rural Development. This has to be done, because there is no other solution anymore. It is obliged that, if there are no requests, the clearer proceeds to legal actions which all end in auctions and in such procedures or even in funds. We therefore say that farmers must definitely join. I will close with one point: those of the farmers who have such debts, but who have incomes that are too high, which demonstrates that they - and can - are able to fulfil their obligations will not have this regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Then we will discuss the first question under number 5821/10-5-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Problems of farmers and farmers Law of Drama and the Ministry of Development Action Plan for the Prefecture". Mr Kyriazides' question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in practice over the last three years of the country's governance by the SYRIZA - ANLE the Law of Dramas and its rural world have been completely abandoned by your Ministry. No substantial measure, no action, no initiative to draw up development plans, to develop and implement the necessary infrastructures to relieve the affected potatoes of the Neroscope, to provide for the immediate and appropriate compensation of disaster victims due to frequent extreme weather phenomena, to anticipate and implement RPA programmes to address frequent disasters. There is a general picture of the total absence of the state and as a result farmers feel alone, forgotten and unjust. In addition to the reasonable and lasting protests of the farmers in Lower Neuroscope, whom you continue to ignore, they are rightly complaining about the pomegranate producers, as no action has been taken to address the disasters that occurred in their production at the beginning of last year, although the region has become an emergency twice. Despite the autopsies carried out by ELGA, the assessments made and the promises given, so far no compensation has been made, which creates indignation and anger. Minister, you ask: What development work of your Ministry for Drama Prefecture and what does it provide for? What will you do and when for the farmers and farmers of Drama? In particular, what do you respond to the farmers in Lower Neuroscope who have not been compensated for four years and experience a torture? What do you respond to the pomegranate producers affected by the frost? Will these fellow citizens be compensated and when? Last, in relation to the ASEAN programmes, will there be a special initiative for their preparation, so that farmers, farmers and other farmers can join them, in order to obtain compensation? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u58	Colleague, we've discussed many of these before. However, to begin with what is of interest to the farmers who are listening to us at this time. These are issues related to ELGA allowances. The physical risks involved in the insurance process are specific. The farmers know them, we all know them. So, for the insurance risks we cover, the process is taking place, which at least now over a period of at least six to seven months, depending on the time we are is being completed. For the rest that can't be covered, what do we say? If they can be included in state aid programmes, we are compiling the relevant files and I will tell you later. If, however, it is due to insults, for example, about a particular fungus and about producers, it is an issue that we cannot deal with at this time through conciliation procedures with the European Commission, for the simple reason that it will tell us that we are trying to give aid in another way, let alone when they are waiting for them as we all expect, and to see what results we have had on the moves we have made to tackle this particular problem. I know why you're interested. We are particularly concerned about the loss of income of these farmers. I can't tell you anything more. I repeat what I am telling you. It is a matter that concerns us and we will see it when there is a potential for it. Don't forget that until yesterday we had memoirs, we had a crisis. We're now entering a new period and we'll see all this. Regarding the PSEN programmes, the well-known ones, the state aids and, in particular, because you mentioned a product, the pomegranate, where there were damages in 2017, the procedures have begun and we are trying to draw up a dossier for these damages. A lot of evidence has been gathered. It is currently under way, and once it has been completed, there will be the relevant joint ministerial decision, which after consultation we will also send it to the European Commission, because we must also obtain the relevant approvals there. As soon as this process is completed, on the basis of the file we have drawn up, these producers will be compensated. More I shall refer to my dentistry, because you have also made a few other comments on our policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u59	Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you are very sympathetic to me. The rural world of Drama covers this prefecture to a large extent, unfortunately I have been trying since 2015 to have a positive attitude to this issue. So you told me in 2015 what you said to me today. I'll give it to you for the Minutes. Apparently, you know them. You say that you really fully understand the problem that exists in the region and that you are indeed discussing and preparing to extend insurance cover and so on. That's what you said in 2015. We're on our way to 2017. In the meantime, I had notified you of the text sent to me by the Community Commissioner on these matters, because you told me that there were no tools. And I say that some tools are therefore possible to be used under the current legal regime. These will be used to mitigate the situation. Both require an initiative by the competent Greek authorities. So it seems that three years you have done nothing, Minister, and you confess it too. Of course, in 2017 again in a similar timely question you have answered what you are answering today, that you will take an initiative via De Minimis in any case with compensation at one level and others. And you come to me today and you answer the same thing again. Minister, with regard to Article 71 of Law 4235 - measure 17 - which you voted on, it drew you attention and Mr Hogan in 2016, who was here and told you that he was waiting for your study to cover these payments, those losses - if you like - of the EUR 200 million programme. I don't know if you've sent her to this day. I think you will answer that. As far as genetic resources are concerned, since you open up the issue - measure 10.2.1 - farmers who hired assistants have had to pay since October last year. We're getting closer to time. They're waiting unpaid. And many have been assured - if you like - debts and are threatened with other measures. As far as the producer groups are concerned, they are waiting for your ratification procedure. I won't talk about the pastures, the different treatment from the north to the south. I would, of course, like to make the reference that is necessary for the control of the uncontrolled and uncontrolled import of milk. In eastern Macedonia and Thrace you have an employee who, due to the large extent, cannot cover this huge issue. Because of the decline in production, but also because of prices, farmers are experiencing huge problems. Your reply, Minister, that pomegranate growers will receive compensation. You talked again about six to seven months. We've been going to the second year since the beginning of 2017. Estimates from ELGA have been completed. They expect you to have the whole procedure in order to obtain compensation. And this year, Minister, things are much worse up. Farmers, especially to cover this year's crop - which many have not been able to cover - have again come to credit from third parties and are in a particularly difficult position and situation. I do not know if they are able to respond and stay in the stadium or even in the whole of Drama. The agricultural and livestock world was expecting your government - in any case - to respond to some degree. As I said at first, you have abandoned them completely. Unfortunately, they're clearly in their luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u61	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u62	Mr Colleagues, you are also tempted by a timely question to exercise parliamentary control over the whole operation of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u63	What can we do? If you don't answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u64	You're right. All you have said is about Greek farmers. But you realise that speaking in detail is not easy at this time. For example: you are constantly referring to ELGA while I tell you that the six, seven, eight months concern insured activities. The ELGA operates rewardably. Those who have made insurance within six, seven months are getting their allowances. But we in ELGA have also commissioned another project. Alongside the assessment of the damages covered, a general assessment is made of the damages in question. For the rest of this damage we are trying through state aid - the procedures known as the PESA - to draw up a dossier that we are going to submit to the European Commission. It follows a procedure like this, which is not the case, unless at least two years have elapsed. That's the rhythms. We're trying as hard as we can. In addition, add that we are experiencing a period when the damage is repeated. We see that the same day we have damages from various physical phenomena, and at the same time these compensations must be covered by the state budget. We must look that way too, if there is such a possibility. So I think we can respond. You may have another appreciation. We tell you that what we have done - particularly to cover such losses - in relation to what previously existed is day by night. You have raised issues such as milk, for example, with the price of milk. It has been discussed many times. I will only say to you one positive: at last, the farmers and processors involved have understood that setting up an inter-branch organisation in the area is a tool that will help us very much. Why am I saying that? Because at least the evidence shows that, where there is an organised collaborative presence of farmers, farmers, milk prices have remained stable, and instead of regions where everyone was going to deliver their milk, they have the consequences, which you know are due to the great crisis that the dairy sector has in the European Union, but of course also to procedures in which many people are engaged and which have evidence of illegality. We have set up control mechanisms, we already have too many issues, which, of course, I cannot now announce before they arrive at justice and before final decisions are made. Keep in mind that we are watching. As far as the strategic plan for rural areas is concerned - and we are already preparing for the end of July again on the basis of our obligations - we have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u65	If problems are solved for you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u66	The potential of the rural area and its resources from the Rural Development Programme are being exploited as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fifth under number 1749/5-6-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Uncontrolled infractions in the environment of the Athens University Institutions and the wider area of the field of Aryos". The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it has been two months since we tabled the two topical questions that are finally being discussed today, but unfortunately, reality always makes safety issues timely. The multiple cases of violence continue and every day almost a new resounding incident is affecting our daily life and is in news. The main streets of Athens are turned into a battlefield where groups act undisturbed simply because they are allowed. The National Technical University of Athens, the Economic University of Athens, the Law School, where I studied, the University Town has become a nursery of crime under ordinary criminal law. Armed robberies, arsons, drug trafficking, illegal trade are phenomena that progress daily in and out of universities. Minister, a month ago you admitted in your public speech that there was a security deficit in the universities. I'm afraid you're late. The Area of Mars and surrounding areas have been transformed into a man of infraction, they are delivered to the use of substances, to the exploitation of minors. The residents of the Area of Mars, completely disappointed by state indifference, have taken action alone to change the landscape of decline, which harms the image of a favoured European state. They call on the state for self-evident: to assume its responsibilities. Minister, some time ago, when we had discussed a topical question about crime again, you had served on a triumph of triumph for your political work. You mentioned selectively the statistics of the Greek Police, which you used as an indicator of your success. It is obvious, Minister, that you are also sacrificing the major issues of citizens' security in the service of your communication purposes. I remind you that since the beginning of 2017 you have committed yourself to strengthening policing in the Mars Field, as you recognized the serious problems of the region and did nothing to stop these images of human impoverishment. So do not triumph because the indignation of the citizens, but also the reality of the matter, also confirms this, and the public's intervention in the area of Mars last month, on the basis of the press reports submitted by the Citizens' Movement. So we call for this indifference, and we call for answers from the citizens of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefalayannis, unfortunately for you, I will disappoint you, because reality and statistical numbers will perhaps not thank you once again, because you insist on proposing certain realities. There are always incidents, there are always problems and there are problems in some areas, which you have left for decades of your own governance abandoned, you have let them be problematic in order to bury the rest of the problems in the rest of Greece and the rest of Attica. But I will insist and insist on statistics, not just because it serves, as you have said, for reasons of communication. Because I may be one of those in this Chamber that I am neither a professional politician nor a professional politician, nor do I have any reason to insist on the communication, in which I do not have any special expertise, as far as you know. So I insist: In relation to the previous three years 2012-2013-2014, in the three-year period 2015-2016-2017 I think it is a reasonable comparison of these three years, your governance, our governance - there has been a significant reduction in crime in Attica - since we are talking about Attica, we could also refer to the rest of Greece - with a significant 48.84% increase in the rate of arrests. The evidence is from the Greek police, it's not mine. Significant efforts have been made to increase security in both the center of Athens and other areas that were completely abandoned, for example, in West Attica. But to focus on the center of Athens, where at the moment a very large number of policemen have left the guarding of persons and spaces. You know well in this Chamber and know well outside this Chamber also those who enjoyed excessive protection. We took around the eight hundred twenty policemen this year, about four hundred fifty years ago. A large number exists in the center of Athens. I think that tangible evidence is the visit, the walking leaders of foreign countries in Ermos, such as Prince Charles, as President of France McCrone, as I think every Greek citizen has seen. Of course, there are problems in Exarchia, there are problems in the Area of Mars. In Exarches problems have been reduced, but still exist. In the field of Mars there is the problem with drug users. Unfortunately, the lack of infrastructure for too many decades raises issues. We are, however, continuing the police operations in these areas. More than six major businesses have been in the area of Exarchates in recent years. Recently, traffickers have been arrested on a very large scale, around 20 people. The same is true of the Area of Mars, where daily operations are made. We are trying to resolve issues or reduce the tensions that had been abused and which for decades have been afflicting the city. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Minister, you are fantasizing and contradicting. Unfortunately, your reality disguises you every day, no matter how much you choose to make use of the statistics. And, of course, to be honest, Prince Charles had a police escort of a hundred people. The question is what policing exists for the inhabitants of Athens. I would like to tell you here, Minister, that both in the case of the complaint of the four hundred inhabitants of Exarchia, and in the case of the Civic movement's petitions, the absence of any relevant state care is exaggerated. In essence, that is, citizens are resorting to justice by primarily denouncing your own provocative inertia. So justice in both cases comes and is asked to fill your own gaps. You choose not to take that into account. Take into account, at least, Minister, that the abandonment of the Mars Field to lawlessness and the insulting demonstration of democracy by groups acting undisturbedly and invading higher courts, embassies, symbolic buildings, is your exclusive competence and the political will that you do not have, in terms of preventing and dealing with crime, exposes the image of the Greek Police. The new Operational Safety Plan in Athens that you announced a few months ago, either stayed on paper or did not pay off. The area of Mars had to be the most important green breath in the densely populated neighborhoods of the area, a center of life, entertainment and culture. You've delivered it to the decay. The solution is to intervene with a viable operational plan and not with fragmentary expulsions. After all, Minister, the plans and the costs of urban renewal fall into vain, as long as the sense of security is not established. As far as the regions are concerned, there are not enough assumptions about the problem. It is not enough for the announcements and it is not easy to transfer the responsibilities. The vague announcements only aim to cover the weaknesses and mistakes of a security policy, which only proud should not make you and make us. At one time, this government must pursue its contact with reality. Every prospect of upgrading the city of Athens has above all to do with the state's obligation to inspire security for its citizens. In this area too, the government has failed. Finally, you must understand, Minister, that security is a condition for democracy and prosperity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, my colleague. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fourteen tenants and six escorts from the "CLIMACA" Rehabilitation Hostel. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Mrs Kefaliannis, I will insist on numbers. Exarcheia: In the first five months of 2018 we had three thousand nine hundred forty-four incubations and two hundred thirteen arrests. These are numbers that have nothing to do with the corresponding years of your own government. In the area of the Aryos Field for the first five months of 2018, we had two thousand three hundred and seventy-four incubations and four hundred fifty-five arrests. In the area of the Athens School of Law, there has been an increasing trend in drug abuse at a rate of 61.54%. You know what? I have a table in front of me last May from a study by the University of Macedonia. I don't think they're SYRIZA organs, government organs, university, or this particular newspaper. The evidence, as regards cases of lawlessness in the Greek AEI, is as follows. Ninety-six incidents in 2012, thirty-nine in 2013, seven in 2014, in 2015, thirty-one, in 2016, thirty-one, in 2017, forty-six. Official Journal of the European Union I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Toskas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is a response to rumour, to the allegations that there is generalised lawlessness in universities and that there are generalised problems. We answer numbers. We respond, if you like, scientifically and with evidence rather than impressions, which in the end may create a problem for the huge tourist currents that are currently coming to our town, are coming to our country. It's good to be objective, it's good to respond with evidence, because otherwise the lack of evidence has close legs and can't stand for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. Next, the seventh under number 1638/15-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “In despair the residents of the Exarchates”. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Taking the baton from the Minister and once again having done a selective reading of the numbers and statistics and talked about research carried out by the University of Macedonia published in the newspaper "Kathimerini", I will submit for the minutes the letter of the protest by the residents of the Exarchates to the prosecutor on crime in the region, as published in the same newspaper. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this letter of protest by the four hundred inhabitants to the head of the Prosecutor of Athens is another demonstration of government apathy for what sadly occurs in the region of Exarchates, a historic and special area of Athens. The major issue that arises is that the residents of the Exarchates denounce above all the absence of a police force in the wider region. They denounce the lack of political will to deal with the phenomena of infraction, barbarity and complete immunity. Indeed, the absence of the state in the region is a matter of political decision, which seems to be rooted in the government's left-wing ideas. In this context, therefore, your extreme environment alone is to disorientate the citizens by shifting your responsibilities. It is disappointing, when you are not able to deal with effective and timely criminal acts, to blame you, as you, Minister, have said, either the police who have not done their job well at the level of execution of an operational plan, or the local government. You are probably not aware that, in so far as you are responsible for the Greek Police, you are actually undermining the policy that you yourself exercise. We are wondering, Minister, this time you will take responsibility for denouncing the four hundred inhabitants of the Exarchates, who were desperately directed to the head of the Athens Prosecutor. To the people themselves who actually denounce you as responsible for your ineffective policy or the judiciary who ordered a preliminary examination to investigate the continuing offences in the region of Exarches?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u78	Mr President and Mrs Kefaliannis, I see that the two questions are one, but I will answer the questions. When Mr Harakopoulos went to MAT a few days ago, he asked whether there was a political order not to interfere in some areas and whether the police were free to implement what was envisaged. Ask him about the answer the cops gave him. From there on, I will repeat the significant increase in the percentage of arrests 48.84% in the period of today's governance. I'm talking about the three years 2015, 2016, 2017. I would insist that we increased patrols in the center of Athens, by 17%, that crime was reduced even in the difficult areas of the Exarches. Of course, we should not talk about West Attica, where there was no policing at your time, if the problems were not accumulated there or were'spirited' - I will be allowed to speak - the problems in these areas. Yours had never been reduced by policemen since the guarding of persons and spaces. Of course, we should not discuss the problems created by your own administration, such as the reduction of the six thousand organic posts by the police, when Mr. Mitsotakis was in the Ministry of Public Administration and the abolition of the Municipal Police, which loaded the Greek Police with extra work. Extremely, the homicides over the last three years - 42.86%. Arrests for robbery raise 28.13%. Arrests for distinguished cases of theft - I'm talking about Exarcheia - 200%. There is a reduction in attacks on political persons and offices -13.6%. Attacks against public targets - 8.5%. I'm talking about the Exarches again. Attacks against stores -87.5%. And an increase in arrests of 28.5% with a reduction in incubations of 87.4%. Why did you do it? You have made massive attempts to create impressions, you have captured whoever you were in front of you and then it has had no effect. We are looking at the substance, looking at legality, and so we have better results, without that meaning that there are no problems, that there are no legitimate complaints on several occasions. However, we are effective and I think we are increasingly moving towards a lasting reduction in problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u80	Minister, I insist that you have not understood the extent of the problem. The problem first of all is political, not operational, so don't transfer it. The specific complaint from the residents shows that essentially all these unprecedented proportions of the phenomenon are due to the lack of political will. According to your statements, there is an updated operational policing plan as of 1 March 2018 including Exarches. The letter of residents was published in May 2018. This therefore touches the limits of extremism towards the citizens. I mean, the only answer would be if you update the drawings and keep them in your drawer. There are also concrete proposals for implementing the Integrated Urban Intervention Plan of the CFP. There are the changes that can take place both in the centre of Athens and in the area of Exarches. One of the specific objectives of the CSR is the restoration of security and legality. What exactly have you done in relation to these objectives and their implementation? Minister, even late, you finally admitted publicly that crime that prefers easy targets, the so-called 'drug crime' - thefts and burglaries - has increased. These are the same statistics for 2017, which you used last time to enjoy your work. Really, Minister, what changed and admitted for the first time that there was a security deficit in Exarcheia and in universities? You have also announced actions to deal with the phenomenon of violence and crime in these regions. Every month you announce them, but the situation doesn't change. And finally you decide: Is there a problem in the region and there is a need to step up action, as you have said? Is there sufficient police and everything okay? What changed and abandoned his rhetoric 'there is no angelically false world'? Minister, it's clear. You don't predict and prevent crime, you just follow it. This is the answer to your triumphs when you dismantle a criminal organization. Make communication policy, simply following the news. Every time you announce the taking of targeted security measures, a relevant event has actually been preceded, which affects the image of your Government. But the prevention of cases of unlawful behaviour, Mr Minister, needs brave political decisions, which you do not want to take. So the letter of protest by the four hundred inhabitants of the Exarchy region is a trick for your policy on the protection of the Greek citizen. Minister, the question of the security of the citizens of this country is not a field of micropolitical controversy. The right to security belongs to all citizens. In particular, to the inhabitants of the degraded areas such as Exarchia, Victoria Square, Acharones, Sepolis, Patisia, Kipseli, it is a long list. You must stand by them. No one wants in our town neighborhoods scared of civilians, zones of lawlessness, militias and self-sacrificing saviors. Security is a question of democracy and you understand very well what I want to say. Protect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, Mrs Kefaliannis, first of all you will allow me to correct you because you mentioned an incident on 17 April which is not recorded in the police records. Please, check it again. With regard to the other issues you mentioned, of course there are problems in this town, of course there are accumulated problems for too many decades or even problems that arise, if you like, every single one. We have not said that problems have been zeroed and there is no part of the world where there are no problems. But let us also talk a little about the issues that have arisen in these days and about the climate of violence and fear with a perfume of extreme right, which exists mainly in northern Greece. What's the stand on New Democracy? He condemns violence against beams. The "PROFITION" - you know what is going on with this newspaper and who is serving - threatens the Prime Minister with hangings. Do you want to be the tail of the far right? Too many executives, to which I rank you, of course not. But there are others on your sideline who look forward to the far right. You think you're gonna win a destabilization climate? Democracy doesn't win, no one wins. We insist that the democratic reflexes of the Greek people should not be underestimated and the determination of this government should not be underestimated. In any case, we will not say'slap me, my dear, to sanctify' and we will not leave these issues like that. In particular, yesterday - and I mention this for information to this House - a group of far-rights was arrested, moving from Kavala to Thessaloniki, for participation in the rallys, and which had from knives to cannabis, to gasolines and bottles for molotovs and other things that could be used, such as hoods, helmets, etc. and who are being brought to justice today. We must all condemn these actions, we must all create a climate that moves within the democratic framework for the good of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I know that I have no right to reply, just because the Minister asked, give me half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u85	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u86	The Minister develops the theory of one end, sees all the extreme right, even when the "Rubicon" acts once again undisturbed, effectively destroying the theories of conspiracy you systematically cultivate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Here is the sixth question, under number 1834/19-6-2018, for a timely second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Subtracting trade union activity at the “IKOS” Hotel in Corfu and illegal retention of trade unions in the field of the hotel by employers". The Minister of Labour will answer Mr. Efi Ahtsoglou. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The miracle of tourism, its development, the record of profits and, of course, arrivals go beyond the levelling-up of workers' rights and the representatives of the employer hesitate to nothing. The representatives of the "IKOS" hotel in Corfu, where the great shareholder is the well-known honored President of SETE Andreas Andreas, with whom the Prime Minister put a bet on how tourism will go, take the lead in the hit of any trade union freedoms left, with the tolerance of all governments until today. Over the past two months, tens of workers have been given up because of the intensification of work, unpaid overtime, terrorism in the workplace and, of course, because of the working hours which workers do not know about. In the effort of workers to establish an operational club, they put in front of managers of the hotel to form an employer anti-union. They prohibit members of the management of the Workers' Centre of Corfu and the administration of the Association of Hotel staff Corfu to visit the employees at the break. Here we have several union announcements. I'll testify for the Minutes. In the effort of the elected trade unionists on the island to exercise their legitimate right to contact the employees of the company, they did not hesitate the director of the hotel and the director of the group to follow them, by smuggling the communists' announcements, holding them illegally until the police arrived. Of course, here we have old communications from the operational union against this attitude of the employer. This group, which has previously banned hotels in Halkidiki, even the GFCM administration, by means of methods reminiscent of other times, is now seeking full subordination of employees. We ask, Minister, what action you intend to take to ensure that the workers' trade union and democratic rights are guaranteed, that all the necessary measures are taken to prevent free trade by the employer and by persons acting on his behalf and that the penalties laid down for the illegal activities of the employer are met. Of course, we also have the Minutes of the APRC from the unions and, of course, what the employer claims and something Mr Andreas claims. You must keep that, Minister, in relation to the representativeness of the collective agreements, that is to say that it does not belong to any trade union organisation. Who? Mr. Andreadis. This claims in Corfu by Mr Andreadis, the friend of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u89	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr Katsotis, from the very first time this government took over, but also from the Ministry of Labour, we have put this issue as our main priority. I have said this many times here in my answers to current questions, but I think we are also in practice proving this. We have therefore set as our central priority the fight against infringement in the workplace and in the enforcement of legality, namely respect for the existing framework for the protection of workers' rights. We are trying to do this in two ways, by strengthening the legislative framework to better shield the implementation and respect of labour rights and by strengthening the executive framework, namely, the Labour Inspectorate, which, as you know and as I have said many times, was totally devalued and deliberately by the previous governments. I think that most of the workers and the workers out there are now aware that there is a mechanism that acts to protect their rights, that the Labour Inspectorate, and now also know employers - even the major employers, who thought they were outside the scope of the control mechanisms and enjoyed some kind of immunity - that this is no longer the case. We have also demonstrated this by the systematic checks we have carried out and by the fines we have put in place and by the fact that we do not hesitate to impose very high fines on large businesses, on central banks, and even to close shops for example in order to comply with the provisions of labour law. The phenomena of infraction - to be clear in my political position - cannot be tolerated in any sector, let alone in a sector such as tourism, which is indeed the most important in terms of the concept of economic efficiency, which exists in the development currently taking place in the country. How do we act in order to deal with infringement in this sector, precisely because this sector is the most important financially? Throughout the tourist season, the Regional Labour Relations Inspection Services of the APRC aim to act on enterprises active in the tourism sector by drawing up a specific plan of targeted controls on islands and tourist destinations. Only in May, nine hundred and eighty-two audits were carried out in tourist enterprises, three hundred and twenty-five fines totalling EUR 1,145 000 were imposed. This year we begin this plan of targeted checks on tourist businesses, precisely because we have noticed that at the beginning of each tourist season the phenomena of infraction are more pronounced. We are essentially repeating the pilot project that we implemented last year in the Attica Region, where four control bodies are operating together: the Labour Inspectorate, the Economic Crime Prosecutor, the auditing bodies of the EPC and the Economic Police. This four-stage programme will work in the region of Crete this year, precisely to target the infrastability of tourist businesses. To say now about this operation. In this company on 12-6-2018 the tripartite reconciliation dispute was made at the request of the workers' association, in order to discuss the question of blockage in the exercise of trade union rights. The Labour Inspector made clear the legislation and clearly indicated to the employer her obligations to respect and respect trade union rights. The problem is that no complaint had been made to the Labour Inspectorate at the time of the incident, so that on-the-spot checks could be carried out by the Labour Inspectorate at the very time when trade union activity was blocked. The lack of this element, because it was not possible to carry out an on-the-spot check, then prevented a number of fines which could be imposed by the Labour Inspectorate. However, with regard to the issues of wages, wages, etc., which were raised in the light of the SEA, the Corfu Labour Inspectorate has already invited the company to provide explanations and will proceed to legal actions. Last time you said the postponement was appropriate. She was wise, yes. But not for the reason you imply. It was appropriate to be able to control the operation. Because if I came here and answered the question, the business would probably have her eyes open for the next period. On Tuesday, 26 June, therefore, there was a sudden inspection of the operation and indeed a number of infringements took place. Thirteen persons were employed on the day-to-day basis, there was no change in working hours, for two workers overtime had not been declared. At the moment sanctions are being imposed for all these infringements in the company. It is therefore clear from our point of view that the plan we have to deal with infringements of tourism and that for us there is no immunity of any kind in any business, especially in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u91	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you are presented as a defender of democratic rights, trade union liberties and workers' rights. Developments, however, the situation created in the workplaces and branches reveal that what you say at times is simply to create a virtual reality. The reality is the dominance of management, employers' rights. Any regulation, which provides for banning interference in the movement, has in practice been abolished under the absolute responsibility of both your Government and you personally. Any worker who claims to be made redundant, how much more to take the lead in the organization of workers as a whole in the workplace. You're talking about the Labour Inspectorate. I am here, Minister, on 25 June you are committed that your Government will implement the commitment to the workers at the port to join heavy and unhealthy. To date, despite your commitment, you have done absolutely nothing. It is one of the things you say, 'the other words to be loved'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, Minister, Article 14 of Law 1264 states that 'the institutions of the State have an obligation to implement the necessary measures to ensure the unrestricted exercise of the right of trade unions to establish and operate independently. It shall be prohibited for employers, persons acting, etc. Article 14 of Law 1264. You probably ignore him. Secondly, Article 23 of Law No 1264 states that 'the employer and his representatives, as well as any third party which infringes the provisions of Article 14(2) and (3) of that Law, shall be punished by imprisonment or a penalty of up to 5 million drachmas'. But you, and what the law said at the time, ignores it. We will also present them in the Minutes to keep them in mind, because here the intervention of the employer is obvious, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And if the organs, the services, do not see or have to be notified to go to the workplace to see the two working trade unions of the employer locking them in a room, at what time are we in? How do you tolerate this? And you say that you are defending workers' rights and while you have done nothing to date, and while there is the police, which went and led the manager to the self-sacrifice! So you ignore that. And you have here evidence that in the negotiations a person of the employer is taking part in the negotiations, who now appears as president of the employer's union, in which they go - and I have tabled you here - out of the workers who have signed them to pay for their overtime and those signatures made them members of the union and who are making an antibody. To defend who? The rights of workers or of Andreas? Mr Andreadis is well known: In all his operations he has the unions, in which people in the office first take the lead, the staff, the managers, are also the presidents of the unions to defend whose rights? And he comes today - and without you seeing what he says in the labour inspectorate - and he says that he, the former president of the APRC, is not in any trade union organisation, so he does not have to comply with the collective contract of work of the civil servants who have been signed, with whom we do not agree, because he has the seven-day time to which you have not intervened, so that he does not have seven days of work for the workers. So these are matters, Minister, which you cannot just say. And in any case, because we are all here in Jerusalem and things are well known, I am presenting you today with a publication of "RIZOPASTI" about what you are saying about trade union rights, about how trade unionists are made redundant, about what is inside the workplaces, just to read it, Minister. I'm guessing you don't read "RIZOPASTI", you read "HAY". AUSTRIA does not see that. So, read here at the "RIZOPASTI" this information, which is available today, for these days where co-operativeness and many times and the services of the EIA go hand in hand - hand, of course, after your own orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u94	From the information I have provided, which shows what penalties are imposed and how many fines are imposed and how many controls are carried out on the businesses of the Labour Inspectorate, you have come to the conclusion that the Labour Inspectorate is walking hand in hand with the employer. I do not really know where these conclusions come from. I read a lot of things and I don't just read "HUY". I read 'AUGY', but not only 'AUGY', but for some things, even though we have every right to disagree, the reading of reality with such a flashlight leaves me speechless. To conclude that the Labour Inspectorate is walking hand in hand with the employer. You think that, in this way, you really read the reality - so you appreciate - and you think that this is how you support the interests of workers. This approach leaves me astonishing. I am putting forward daily data, not words, which you do not like, but data showing what we have done with the Labour Inspectorate, how many controls we do, what fines we put, which companies we control, in what way. I've just presented you with all the methodology we've been following for the tourist industry. A hundred remarks to be more intensive, to make them, and your questions help us to do more targeted checks and to companies that violate them. But from this until you say that the Labour Inspectorate is an ally of the employer, we really are talking about a virtual reality. I have provided the evidence for the checks we have carried out and for the fines we put on and what we will do in the next period. I believe that I have shown you that all I do not claim here is that this company, IKOS, is an undertaking that is lawful. I barely told you that in our last surprise check, we found a number of breaches for which fines are imposed. The legislative arrangements we have made in order to put rules that are at last strict in respect of overtime and overworking, because you also voted for them less than a year ago. And that is, too, reality and not words. What we did a few days ago, and it is of enormous importance for the tourism sector in particular, precisely because there are most time violations invoking the particular nature of the flexibility that exists in these services, as the employers say, so precisely to limit this phenomenon, we have made two ministerial decisions. One lays down rules on how the overtime should be declared electronically and in advance in information systems to enable them to be kept and checked and paid, and to date it has been the manuscript that allowed for infringements. We did the same with a ministerial decision that we put an end to the grey area of overworking and its systematic circumvention. It must now be declared electronically in advance and it will be checked and complied with by the rules concerning it. Because to this day it has been in the law, but it has never been practically possible to control this. We are doing the same at the moment with the bill in Parliament that we will discuss next week and I think it is also very important for the tourism sector. We are putting rules in this whole system of apprenticeship and practice, in which the institution is being circumvented, particularly in tourist services. So what do we say there? That there should be a record of students, students and students again in the information system so that they can be recorded and checked if their limit is respected. Because too many of these businesses are trying to replace permanent staff, they are trying to replace the work that would be done by permanent staff with apprentices or by people who are in practice. We now define - and you will see it in the bill that we are going to discuss - that there is no way that the total number of traineeships or apprenticeships exceeds 17% of the employees per company with a maximum of 40 people per company, and that record should be electronic in order to ensure that it can be monitored. It is therefore a question of regulations, which are of a horizontal nature, but of their practical reflection, in particular, are aimed at the tourism sector. I will never say this again so as to avoid misunderstanding - that the situation on the labour market is good or desirable. No way. However, things are happening, I have submitted them too many times, and legislatively and, in particular, with regard to the executive and operational action of the Labour Inspectorate, which is on the side of the workers, and it needs to step up its efforts to stop the phenomenon of infraction. The fall of undeclared work from 19% to 12% over this three-year period of our governance is I think a tangible result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers: The fourth under number 1883/26-2018 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the "conversion of the contracts of the twenty-three hydronomists of the "EKDAP S.A." in indefinite time and their inclusion in the Staff Regulations and Collective Labour Agreements will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Spirtzi on an official journey to Thessaloniki. The first 1857-25-2018 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "New Frontier Toll Station of the Egnatia Road in the Regional Unit of Kavala", will also not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Spirtzi. The eighth Question No 1812-14-2018 by Ms Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. We will not discuss the ninth number 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior on the building for the housing of the Department of National Roads of Paionia, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Also, the tenth question under number 1151/26-2-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on revelations by Panos Kammenos", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska, will not be discussed. Finally, the fourth question under number 1836/19-6-2018 in the second session of the Vice-President of the Parliament and the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Mr. Syriza, is presented as a Macedonian appeal against Greece", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - because of a "workload" - of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Nikolaos Kotzias. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-28-S1-commons.u96	With the consent of the House at 12.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 June 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) Topical Questions debate and b) the debate on the number 19/13/2-3-2018 topical question to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
