ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Regions on transport issues and other provisions'. Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 23 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1367/20-3-2018 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Removing a branch of a National Bank from Zephyri". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1344/19-3-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Is the revelation by PPC President that the government is thinking of selling LARCO, upon the suggestion of the institutions?” 3. Under No 1339/19-3-2018, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters". 4. The Question No 1327/16-3-2018 by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy concerning the ""installation" of thousands of tourist ships prepared by the Turks in the Aegean Sea in the summer." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Georgios Vlachos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Suspension of special compensation protocols until ratification of the forest maps’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karrassas, Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc" is urgent. 3. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Sustainableity of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestia". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 1139/92/13-11-2017, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "unjustifiable delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly Reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Seven questions will be debated today. We shall immediately begin with the debate of the fifth under number 1332/19-3-2018 on a topical question from the second Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Radical Left coalition Mr Georgiou Born to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to protect milk production and the quality of milk products". Mr. Vice President, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u3	Minister, my question concerns the exacerbation of some illegal practices which result in the dramatic reduction of milk prices, especially sheep and goat milk, which has reached an average of 85 minutes, but in some villages in Atalokarna they speak for both 60 minutes and 55 minutes, when in 2016 the price of milk was over one euro, while it had already fallen by 15% last year. As you can see, this is a bomb, not a bracelet, but a normal bomb, to the status of animal husbandry itself. Needless to say, it is directly linked to imports, which have increased by 200% in 2016, and do not tell me about the free market, because I have to tell you this: Here imported milk is used to produce livestock products, in particular PDO cheese, which, as you know well - and I do not want to expand much, but, if I have to, I will do so - is producers obliged to use local milk and indeed a particular category of milk. So you understand that we have a bomb in the case of livestock farming and a bomb in the case of certain protected products. Minister, I would like to ask you this: what measures have you taken or are you going to take on this matter? Because, as you have seen and will have in mind, I shall refer, if you wish, to the elements of a survey showing that Greek livestock farming and agricultural production have been lauding for many years, when over 35% of farmers and farmers are sixty-five years old and over, while younger people are untrained. So what measures are you going to take, because, as you can see, this is a terrible urgency and it is about life in the villages itself if we want to keep them alive? Thank you, and I am reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u5	Colleague, I understand your anxiety, but we need to clear up a few things. In the context of the functioning of the European Union, the movement of milk between Member States for processing, for milk products or other derivatives is not contrary to Union legislation. So milk is allowed. All the quantities that enter our country are, of course, recorded and, within our country, they are converted, on the basis of what our own legislation provides for, into products. We in this part have succeeded and obtained approval from the European Commission to put on the packaging of these milk products in a distinctly clear position a mark, which in fact refers to the milk-milk-mining country, namely raw material. This is something which, as you can see, will work towards market transparency and will in particular help Greek consumers buy the Greek product. This is an intervention. In order for this whole process to be done, there is absolutely a need for control over milk. There is a relevant framework. We have the 'ARTEMIS' system in which we are trying to find a chance of misleading the consumer. Of course, too many controls are not only carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development, but also in cooperation with the other Ministries and at the same time there are exceptional checks, with the assistance of other bodies such as the Coordinating Centre for the Control of the Parallel. However, I would like to make it clear: the producer price for livestock products, as in this case milk, must be understood that it is shaped freely on the basis of supply and demand. We cannot intervene - we have already tried to do this - because in such a procedure there is the Competition Committee, which does not allow us to make such contributions. But it must be understood that at this time, due to the liberalisation of quotas in the European Union, all of Europe faces a problem of mood and of course of extension and prices. We will therefore step up controls. It does not allow me now to tell you what kind of commitments we are making to date, but, especially as regards the price, I would like to refer to two cooperative organisations, the Kalavryton Cooperative and the Volos Cooperative, where the price they provide to the harvesters is close to 1 euro per litre, when the individual farmers are given much lower prices, up to 0.83 or 0.84 euros respectively. So the answer to this case is that farmers themselves must be able to intervene in order to control the market. More for control, I'll develop in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u7	As to the need for the agricultural synergies you mentioned at the end of your speech, Minister, I tell them in the villages. Sometimes even two brothers can't get together and agree to cooperate in Greece! This has to change. You said about free competition, which I know very well, but I want to tell you this: I raised a point for you: why is the specific imported milk being used? You spoke about the "ARTEMIS" and the control mechanisms. Two undertakings were seized to use the milk concerned, free from competition and imported into Greece, for the production of certain protected products. What happened in the case of these two undertakings? If they don't understand words, there's another way to comply. Because I do not just raise the point that the price of milk is falling through this process. I raise the question of how they are torpedoing - and you understand that, because I am not further expanding here - a particular product. Because here in Greece they are shouting when a protected product is in danger, but they themselves undermine it. What happens in this case? As far as illegal Greekism is concerned, Minister, I do not doubt that it may not be the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Rural Development. Other ministries are involved. They're working together? Do they work effectively? If they don't cooperate, why don't they? Who should control them in this regard? I have already raised an issue with regard to the existence of the animal husbandry itself. I have put you - and what I am saying now is irrelevant - on the issue of the ageing of the rural population. She's old. 35% of the rural population is over sixty-five years old. Young farmers are untrained. Can I tell you something, Minister? Because it happened to me to be suspicious of what SYRIZA was going to take over when it was going to govern, for the last five years I have proposed to the region, in Ioannina, where 10% of the livestock is raised as regards ovine and caprine animals and 6% as regards cattle, the creation of new crops in public land of a model livestock park and a model rural park. To come young people who want to return because of the crisis in the province and show them what they can do. Since then, I haven't been able to make any sense. I cannot make any difference, Minister - I have made a reference to you, and I am ending with this - for public land, looking for what farmers can get with 3 euros the grazing acre and 5% provided for in the law on cultivation. Do you know what I can't figure out from the periphery yet? Who they are, they say, trapped and what they're forested for. This is the situation in Greece, where some swing the finger today. It does not know the state, the region, which is imprisoned and what it is forested. It's been a year since I tried. Minister, don't move your hand like that. In Greece we live! Isn't there someone who can give the answer? And if it does not exist and if it does not, Minister, I am prepared to use all the means. This has nothing to do with political controversy, nor with anything. Either he knows the state what its land is or he doesn't know. And if he doesn't know, why doesn't he know? Somebody needs to check this out. When did they get imprisoned? When did they call them woods? Who can tell us about this? Please for something more specific in the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u9	Did you see, Mr President, how I am entitled? Mr Colleague, regarding the encroached, the processes of ownership and the issues of property, our country has been suffering since its liberation. There is a presumption of public ownership. There are settlement areas. There are so many problems that we need a lot of time to talk about. They are directly related to the fact that there is no national property register in our country, namely property rights. But I'm staying in two, three of the points you made. The first concerns the possibility of imported milk being used for the production of feta cheese, for the production of milk products. What we can do, and we do, is see how many quantities of sheep and goat milk are declared and how much of this is used to produce feta. From the first nine months of 2017, i.e. recent data, it appears that processing companies used five hundred forty-eight thousand tonnes of sheep milk and a hundred and thirty-five thousand tonnes of goat milk. Of this quantity, a hundred and five thousand tons of feta and twelve and a half thousand tons of other PDO cheeses were produced. So if we make a reduction of this quantity produced in the amount that corresponds to raw material in milk, they give up, they cover the production of feta, on the basis of the quantity declared by the processors as the quantity of milk we have taken. So that's where we can't catch them. If anything else can happen now or not, that is to say that there is milk in it which is said to be Greek ovine and caprine animals, while it is not, it is another issue and, as you can see, it is too thin to be able to locate at this time, because I have not detected. Whether or not it is happening, I can't say it. Nor, of course, can I get into the process of going to check the feta in all processing plants, whether or not it corresponds to raw materials, whether Greek or not. It's not just. I tell you, because we are talking about a product of geographical indication, which we have an obligation - particularly in the European Commission and in the world market - to defend it through the International Agreements and through everything concerning the relationship between the European Union and third countries. I come to the part where you said what we are doing, what we are doing with young farmers. For example, the measure we have on the entry of young farmers is well known. We are actually trying - so because we are in an hour to look at what is going to happen to those involved, we are not yet ready, but we are trying - as far as possible, to get as many people as possible into this process. Of course, there are other measures. There are measures relating to processing which concern producer groups. I stress it once again, because it will be a one-way road. Mr Colleagues, it is in the European Union that it has the upper hand in the movement of agricultural products in general, which unfortunately is impossible in our country. Of course, now, other issues are particularly related to the initiatives that we want to take, because in the case of controls we must become more stringent, particularly with the APPEMIS project, but above all with our cooperation with the relevant ministries and the other departments. Perhaps by answering Mr. Style later, we can say more on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with No 1365/20-3-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Extensive fraud and illegal Greekizations in milk and cheese products make the future of Greek farmers and cheese farmers uncertain". Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in recent months there has been a 20% fall compared with last year in producer prices for sheep and goatmeat. A similar downward trend is observed in the feta value. One of the main factors leading to the decrease in the prices of producers is the extensive fraud in the market for cheese products. Usually it is imported milk that is Greekised or raw milk. Moreover, there are cases where a cheese product is manufactured in our country as white cheese, then it is exported, repackaged and sold as a feta to the final consumer. Under these circumstances, large losers will be the small cheese houses and farmers with a small number of animals. Their holdings have become injurious as a result of overtaxation and high production costs. If the situation continues, it is a matter of time for all these farmers, cheese farmers, to lose their businesses, to lose their animals. Greek livestock farmers and small cheese farmers, Minister, are following their troubles to vaporize and their debts to increase. The Greek state has three control mechanisms: the FFET, the DAGs, the Departments of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Science and the ELG "DIMPRA". Their responsibilities overlap. The checks are circumstantial and ineffective. As a result, the phenomena of illegal Hellenism and fraud are on the rise. It is consumers who are unprotected. In view of the above, Mr Minister, what action do you intend to take to ensure the feta and, more generally, the PDOs in our country? What action do you intend to take to support farmers and cheese farmers and to protect consumers? In what ways will you use the control mechanisms, in order to intensify controls and fight the phenomena of fraud and illegal Greekism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, following on from what I said earlier, I would like to make it clear again that the producer price for livestock products, such as milk, is a price which is formed within the supply and demand conditions in our country. We cannot take any action from our side. It is important, however, that the controls must be intensified, and that is how we see how we are going to limit ourselves to the point of disappearing - I understand that it is not possible - the phenomena of shame that exist in this area as well. We ask: What are the tools? And I would like to repeat this: The first is that farmers themselves, as I have said before, must create viable producer organisations - there is the possibility, there is a concrete measure - so far as it covers their operating costs in up to five years up to EUR 100,000. So I'd say it's a one-way thing. Secondly, what I want to say to you is that, particularly in support of small dairy production units, we are currently planning some national measures so that we can support them and help them, especially those that have a traditional, local one, I would say, activity. Thirdly, there is the programme for the promotion and promotion of products produced from domestic materials. The national label has been introduced and it is in the direction of introducing concrete actions to fund promotion. And the fourth is that we are now in the process of setting up an inter-branch organisation. Because they are currently in the direction of setting up two interbranch organisations, I would once again like to stress that an interbranch organisation for the area, because that is the only way it can defend itself effectively. At the same time, of course, we will also see the issues of "ARTEMIS", in order to be more effective. It is a matter that concerns us. We are also in constant contact with the Anti-Fraud Coordination Centre and we have too many results. As you can see, ethical reasons do not allow us to announce which companies we control and what results we have. We also have the great problem of lack of staff, which in fact we cannot overcome. We're trying. We are therefore at a time when, with the checks we have carried out in the balances, our interventions, particularly in areas designed to cover a large part, I would say that we will soon have more substantial results. However, I would once again like to stress that we want allies themselves in this respect for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Style, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we as your new Republic have repeatedly pointed out the issues and issues relating to the Greek agricultural world, Greek agriculture and Greek livestock farming. When the law on vulnerable products was recently passed, we had pointed out to you that it is an inappropriate law and that what you did then, that you would manage to catch controls on the market, ensure and ensure the income of farmers, could not be achieved. Unfortunately, months later, we, New Democracy, come to confirm ourselves. And, unfortunately, for Greek farmers and Greek producers, because the law is inapplicable. We told you, you didn't want to hear us. We have told you on several occasions, Minister, that it is your government - and I said it in my prototype - which has taxed subsidies and aid from the first euro. It is your government that increased the tax rate from 22% to 45%. It is your government which has made more than double the insurance contributions for producers and farmers. It is your government which has increased to 100% of the advance. It is your government that has made progress in increasing solidarity. And the Greek farmers and producers know that it was the New Democracy Government that introduced substantial measures, both within and through the Rural Development Programme - you have also mentioned - to support farmers and producers. I'm talking very specifically. I am talking about measure 9, which refers to strengthening producer groups so that they can finance and go ahead. But you are three years in government, Minister. While the programme was launched in 2014, 2015 when the SYRIZA National Rescue Government took over - ANEL because, until now, in 2018, this measure has not been announced? Also, Minister, I referred to my first speech from now on. We understand that this is a difficult matter with controls. And you, in an earlier timely question to a SYRIZA MEP, have referred and admitted that there are phenomena of market discrepancies, so you have to see this in collaboration with farmers. So you can't stay a non-resident. You must immediately proceed and recognize the establishment of the interbranch organisation of feta. I ask you, Minister, what have you done to set up this interprofessional feta organisation? You can't stay a sharer. Problems are moving on. Minister, you have to put these issues at European Union level. So far you haven't put it. Or let us know, if you have put it, that the checks should also be carried out at European level. You know, we know, the livestock farmers know, the cheese farmers are leaving Greece as white cheese and are being repacked and made available as feta. The market is here. Finally, Minister, you know that, and we know that with these policies of the government we cannot have consumption and because of overtaxation there are no consumers. In order to sell products, consumers need information and information. Please, let me know about the checks and the initiatives you take. You know that we, New Democracy, are supportive, because we are all judged by the results. And we want results because, we want to support the country's animal production, we want to support farmers. We have told you before that it is agricultural production which gives dimension and size at home. Farmers are out in the open, in the region. It's in the acronym of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u17	Colleague, we've turned it into a question. But I would like to say something to you: in my village they say a proverb: 'The house of the hanged man is not talking about rope'. Is it possible for you to abandon us for the regulation we have brought to the law on vulnerable and sensitive products when you know that time of application is from 1 January 2018, giving a time to adapt, in particular, processing plants or wholesalers or supermarkets? In fact, I say this when you had previously brought the specific payment arrangement in sixty days, having a footnote which said 'unless the parties decide otherwise'. Can you, now, imagine the parties, the farmer, along with the store, along with the wholesaler, how did they agree? Whatever the mighty said. In the present case, therefore, you had abolished the specific regulation, which was not the case at all. We now come and impose administrative sanctions, even on the farmer himself, if he does not implement this arrangement for sixty days of payments. You mentioned the tax issue in particular. You said that we tax from the first euro. Do you not know that we have a tax-free 8,500 euros, which in a family with two children is 9,500 euros, which, according to 2016 declarations on income in 2016, payments in 2017, farmers over 95% did not pay a tax? Are you talking, when with the law of 2013 - I do not remember exactly - you taxed from the first euro with 13% of all incomes, allowances, aids for the Greek farmer, and we came and abolished this regulation? Moreover, the evidence shows that the distance between those paid by farmers and your own regulations in relation to what they are paying today is day by night. So don't shoot, especially, for a regulation concerning the only professional group in our country which is tax-free and which is farmers. You have also raised the other issue concerning the interprofessional organisation needed by the feta. Mr Colleague, it will not be painful for the Minister to say 'Come on, two interbranch organisations to sign each other and the other, so that they can work two', as much as there is a place in which contractors have different interests. The processor, for example, certainly is interested in getting cheaper milk. The farmer, who too has a direct relationship with the site, is interested in defending his production. Can we not get them somewhere to coexist in this interprofessional organization so they can work collectively for both the benefit of both sides and the others? That's what I want. I think if we sign the two interprofessionals, we'll do a lot of damage to the space. Let both farmers and processors understand that it is a one-way street and you can be certain that this will be done at the end of the day so that we can all help the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first question will be discussed under number 1331/19-3-2018 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panayotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The functioning of veterinary services, the management of zoonoses and their impact on livestock farming". Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Minister, this is the third topical question we have today on livestock farming. Obviously you understand that we, the Members, are information providers that we have from the citizens, so there is a great deal of anxiety in the livestock world and in the processors' area, as Mr Stylis said, which, despite the inaccuracies - you have given the answer - has identified the very important problem that currently exists at the price of sheep's milk. My topical question also concerns livestock farming, but from another point of view, from the point of view of science and veterinary. Before I begin my timely question, I will say that you, as well as other members of the government, have mentioned the importance of livestock farming and how much priority the government attaches to the development of this important sector for the economy of the country. In my opinion, an important aspect of the development, upgrading and ultimately development of livestock is the functioning and effectiveness of public veterinary services. Unfortunately - and I say this from personal experience and specialisation - everyday life and data show that for several decades the contribution of veterinary services has not been as far as possible for the development of this important sector of the primary sector. I am referring to as a characteristic example of this malfunction in the management of zoonoses and epidemics in recent years and the bad results of this management. Minister, there has been a programme for the eradication of bovine brucellosis and sheep since 1975. Today we still have cases in both humans and animals in many areas of the country. This phenomenon has an impact on both animal health and human health, of course, both on welfare and efficiency, but above all it is very important for the export and the reputation abroad of important products for the country's economy and I mean feta. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would remind you that about four years ago, because it was precisely because there was a European ban on the export of feta, we had to make more severe vaccinations in order to have the certification needed to export. We insist that we implement a vaccination programme for four decades that does not work. Apparently, someone has to explain why we're doing it. As far as the bluetongue is concerned, a relatively recent epidemic we have had in the country, state services have been too late to decide what measures they will take to deal with the disease, including whether or not we will inoculate and ultimately have had very great losses to the animal population, to the sheep farming in the country. There are estimates that there has been a fall in the population of sheep even 30%. The most recent epidemic is follicular bovine dermatitis. The results here are really disappointing. Services followed, of course, - I will tell you what I mean - undeniably European checks based on data from other states with different climatic conditions and previous scientific data. They continued to extinguish herds to prevent the disease from spreading, even when the disease has arrived in Achaea. Obviously, we did not manage the spread process properly. In fact, they have shown so great zeal to wipe herds where they have not hesitated to destroy and flocks of rare tribes, and I am talking about one of the two herds of the Sykia tribe in Halkidiki. As far as the supply of the vaccine, the administration of the vaccine, the way it was vaccinated by an area which was different, I can tell you details, which are not at all pleasant. More generally, it is really strange, for those who are involved in livestock farming, that the same institutional framework is interpreted and applied quite differently in different veterinary services even in the same county. The reasons for this confusion and this result, Minister, are, in my opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u20	If you want, my colleague, you can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude in 15 seconds, Mr President. It is the subsistence of veterinary services, particularly in areas sensitive, such as Evros and the islands of the eastern Aegean, and I would like you to tell us whether you have any provision for this - the fact that the regional services of the country are not part of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is their natural area, but which falls within the regions, from the outset depreciation and, in essence, the abolition of the institution of the breeder, and - that is my personal view - that is my personal view - that important decisions are taken by executives who are only theoretically and do not have good knowledge of the Greek reality. The questions are two: Do you intend, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, to reunite the services of the region and centre that have the same object and serve them at the same time, so that they can carry out the important task of developing and refining livestock? And you intend to activate and exploit the breeder's institution to make an effective contribution to the work of the services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u23	My dear colleague, I agree with you that veterinary services are one of the fundamental stones for the development of livestock farming. I will not, however, agree with you on the fact that they have not made a decisive contribution to the development of this sector you mentioned. I am not saying that there are no problems, but it does not really respond to the depreciation which is being undertaken by central authorities with your claim to the question that they are approaching matters from a theoretical point of view only, with total ignorance of reality. This is your position unnoticed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u24	I'll document it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u25	The veterinary staff at the Central Veterinary Authority, but also in all services central, regional, despite the unfavourable conditions - you know them, you know them, we know them - from subsistence, from inability to cover their travel costs, from limitations, from kilometre allowances, all that the industry is experiencing is making superhuman efforts to implement the programmes and, above all, to deal with epizootic diseases. The epizootic diseases all know, most of all, from the European Union, because we are a neighbouring country with Turkey that, in fact, Turkey is the gateway to all these epizootic diseases, the zoonoses - which, of course, also come to our country - and we really have huge losses. But we cannot question the offer of veterinary services from earlier days, as everyone remembers, with flu, with dioxins, with spongiform encephalopathy, today with bluetongue. For all these consequences, I tell you that the veterinary services are controlled not only by us but also by the European Commission. There is a Directorate for Inspections of the European Commission's health and food sector, the results of which - as part of its audits of many issues relating to the functioning of veterinary services - show that your claims are not justified. I sincerely tell you that, as well as the Commissioner for Health, Mr Androkatis, I have my own knowledge and always at our meetings, he will say the good reason for the services. So we do not put any problems - there are indeed all of them, in fact, our colleagues, to say this clearly - because they are doing a great deal of work. And also to keep in mind, my dear fellow Member, that in epizootic diseases it is not just veterinarians. There are too many who are involved in this process, and it is important that we do not put all the problems to veterinarians. Now, with regard to substation issues and all of this, I agree with you. I'm going to tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Vanjah has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously what I am saying is not only a citizen and an elected Member, I say it as a veterinarian who has been dealing with the primary sector for twenty years. Away from me, syndicate logic and defending small-stakeholders and trade union interests. I know your will, I know the government's will, and I know the political decision we have made to help the livestock sector and the primary sector, but I think... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can I speak to the Minister and listen to me when I develop the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u28	Mr Theonas, there is a timely question and the Minister must listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u29	If I asked to make an observation, you wouldn't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u30	Why, did you ask for the floor and did someone deny you? It's not right to your colleague. You could have expected it to end, I could read the next question and ask the Minister whatever you want. I'm sorry, my colleague, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u31	I'm going on, thank you. So it is really unfair, Minister, that this expressed political will and yours and the Prime Minister are stumbled - and it is a great effort made by many people, I do not question this on the other hand - to bureaucracy, to inadequacy and sometimes to small and large interests. And what I'm saying is I'm not saying things I haven't been looking into before. I shall therefore give you some examples of all that I am claiming. Obviously you won't have an answer to give me today. But I think they should be heard and in my opinion I would have investigated them. In the time we are talking about in public veterinarians, there is a lack of reagents for the examination of enzootic leukosis and tuberculosis, which tuberculosis is a preparation used for the examination of bovine tuberculosis, and these two tests are necessary for the movement of bovine animals. We're at a time when animal transfers are taking place. You know that. This shortfall, then, had caused huge financial damage at this time, because it cannot be sold either for transfer or for transfer or for sale within the country. At the same time, there is a lack of brucellosis. For brucellosis, one must apologise, Minister, for what is happening in the country. We've got cases in people too. At the same time, there is now a lack of the vaccine Rev -1 vaccine of brucellosis sheep. Again, the juncture is bad, because now we can inoculate the sheep and goat for the brucella, because now they're not pregnant. The second example. Bovine brucellosis vaccine. We have many different regimes, and, in my opinion, red tape, complexity and inefficiency and a very poor scientific approach. A feature of chaos, I imagine, is that a group of farmers from the S.H.E. was recently justified, because without a clear scientific reason it changed the vaccination status in the area they were and people stopped selling animals to other breeds. As far as the ovine and caprine programme is concerned, brucellosis, which, in any case, started to apply on the basis of the reason I told you before, with exports, and was literally blown into the air after public veterinarians were brought to the Skopje. against the breeder. Indeed, the demonstration of the trade zeal, because you say that we are all colleagues, has led the majority of regional veterinary services to freeze vaccination for a number of months, even in regions where we had grubbed up, even in areas where we had herds clearly, now have animals and nuclei contaminated. Health control of imported animals. The country only requires animal testing and does not require inspection, I mean laboratory testing, for specific diseases that cause serious problems for farmers. I say, for example, the Bvd in cattle. It requires only one health certificate. You know what that means. It means that importers who are legal and conscientious face unfair competition and ultimately, farmers know that they have a very serious problem with both Bvd and Maedi in sheep, are facing a problem with diseases and losses in their herd. I will also tell you about a well-known fraud industry, I imagine, with supposedly plant animals, which are subject to compulsory slaughter, they are compensated and resold. There's a way to avoid all this. I'll finish this. Licences for the movement of animals. They're manuscripts, Minister. We continue in 2018 - last week we launched together in Carditsa a pilot program for digital, intelligent agriculture - and we still have manuscripts for animal trafficking, which do not always accompany the animal. So, we have a huge space for illegal movements, for potential movements of unhealthy animals. In any case, all this creates an additional chaos throughout the entire livestock farming process. Veterinary medicinal products. The prescribing is also done by manuscripts
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u32	Your Honor, please, if you'll be able to complete it. We've already reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u33	I have to finish, because it doesn't make any sense not to say it all. The prescribing of veterinary medicinal products becomes manuscripts, it is poorly done, public services are dealing with the issue with tolerance or indifference. We have a problem with food safety, we have a trade in potentially dangerous medicines, we have a trade in medicinal products that are not authorised in the country, we have increased costs for the producer, we have a sale by people who are not veterinarians. What do you think you're going to do about it? I repeat the absurd, paradoxical and dangerous fact that the same institutional framework in different regions of the country applies differently, and every veterinary service, even in the same prefecture, has its own bakery. So I wonder what the will and the possibility of the Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is. I shall end with what I have said about animal labelling. It has been shown that markings with those plastics, whether electronic or not, are ineffective for the country and are explained in various ways. I can tell you, and you know that, I think. By 18 July 2019 each Member State must state what labelling it wants to follow for animals. We must then say that we want to make labelling by non-removable means, electronically, which can finally be scanned and transported and all of this is recorded in the database. Minister, I am finishing, and I say that I believe very much - I do not know what you understood - in the public veterinarian's institution and in the fact that there is a lot to be done in public veterinarians. However, depreciation of the veterinary profession and the public service starts from within, and if we do not have time to do so, we leave room for economic interests to be created, which the Greek farmer pays dearly. The institution of the breeder, while the Greek farmer will pay, if rationally planned, can really help and return this money to the livestock and the producer. The questions I'm asking you are the same because I didn't get any answers. So I expect you to tell me what you intend to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u35	All of what you have described, Madam President, has as a reference what we agree. Subsistence, especially of veterinary staff, is known to everyone, and of course, it is a matter of public administration as a whole. In other words, we do not find that anything that is the Minister's issue about how to recruit. You understand that. Everyone realizes it. So what we do is we run out of all the possibilities we have. And I want to remind you of the limitations we have. We've signed some agreements. We have been restricted. We have, for example, one intake per five departures in 2016, per four departures in 2017, per three departures in 2018. So we have this problem. We have also recently asked, in order to meet our needs, for thirty-five veterinarians to be recruited in central services and a hundred and fifty veterinarians to be recruited for regional units and, indeed, for the procedure laid down in health matters. We're not asking for any staff other than veterinarians right now. Anything we can, we can be given to cover the position of veterinarians. We all know that. We have also provided the European Commission with funding for the implementation of a four-disease surveillance programme, i.e. foot-and-mouth disease, follicular bovine dermatitis, pain of small ruminants and blessing, and we are trying, using these programmes, to save as much as possible the impact on the animal population. Also, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior - and the Minister responsible is here - he has sent a letter to the regions of the country - and I will present it to you to see it - where he asks, on a separate and priority basis, their requests to meet the needs of private veterinary staff, in the context of the immediate response to the problems we put to him and in particular related to the protection of public health, the safeguarding of animal health. And already - you will see - it has responded to a region. It expects an answer from the other regions. You raised an issue concerning the breeder. This specific institution, which provides for the recruitment of four hundred and fifty veterinarians, has not been activated, because against our decision to implement this institution the Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials has been brought to the Council of State. 'Frozen' since the action was brought. What I have to tell you - I learned it two - three hours before I came here - is that the decision of the Council of State was made public. The application of the Association of National Veterinary Officers was not accepted. So once we have taken the decision, we will consider whether the institutional framework that we are considering should be updated - because there has been some time since - and we will proceed immediately to implementation. It is good that we will have another four hundred fifty breeders who will meet the needs of the animal population. You also raised the question of pooling the centre's services with the regions. This is a matter that we have presented to the Minister for the Interior. In the light of the intervention which he plans to make in the 'KALIKARAT', we also expect our request to be accepted, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 62nd Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before we move on, we'll let you know about the procedure. You are following the topical and urgent procedure. The Member concerned finds an issue and develops it and the Minister has to answer these major issues that concern our everyday lives. In particular, now you are following questions about rural development, food and animal husbandry, and the competent Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostleou, responds. We continue with the last question the Minister will answer. It is the second question by number 476/17-10-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ahmet Ilhan to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements of farmers P.E.... Rhodope, affected by the blessing of the sheep in the year 2014.’ Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u37	Minister, as the President has said, our question relates to the compensation of the Rhodope farmers affected by sheeppox in the year 2014. Minister, we have asked you a question yet on 17-10-2017, which, of course, again, as many questions we have tabled, has remained without answering. Unfortunately, before I raise my question, I would like to express to you the great dissatisfaction of the Vice-Presidents in particular, to whom you are not responding, Minister, and we are obliged with a timely question to return to this subject. As regards our question, on 18-12-2014, the Veterinary Region Directorate, Mr Minister, sent to the Health Directorate, namely you, the Ministry, all updated statements with the beneficiaries of the compensation for the destructive zoonosis of the sheeppox in Rhodope. Since then, the ninety-four beneficiaries of compensation, recorded in the protocol number you have officially in your archive, have remained unpaid, Minister, despite the fact that three years have passed since the huge damage to their livestock capital - they have passed, Minister, over three years ago, totalling four years - and despite their repeated damages. These stockfarmers have been in Rhodope on several occasions. When will they be paid and why are they not paid? The service response is well-known: "The issue lies at the Ministry, we have sent all documents responsible and unfortunately wait, wait, wait." We ask you, in writing, to inform our fellow citizens what the situation is after all and why they are not paid and whether they are paid and you are cheating on the role of the Member, you are not answering. I urge you here today to give an answer to this issue, what is going on with these farmers, because these people have not been paid for three or four years, even though they are ad hoc given, their compensation is given, there is no problem, yet they have not been paid for in their codes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for his prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u39	Mr Colleague, before I answer you how we will solve the problem, we need to clarify a few things, which show how sloppy the previous governments have dealt with this particular issue. We didn't create the problem. We found it, and most importantly we found it in this difficult situation because of the bad handling. And I'll report you a few. Firstly, payments of all incarcerated animals from the pest measures for the years 2013-2014 and 2015 concerned compensation for livestock farmers who kept the animals within their premises - farms, with decisions by the veterinary authorities in the protection zone, namely three kilometres. That was a decision of the veterinary authorities. Secondly, the expenditure was not foreseen by the government at the time, so it is not foreseen as eligible within the joint Ministerial Decision on financial aid granted as a result of consolidation measures. Thirdly, however, the then political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food wanted to somehow compensate farmers on the basis of some of the proposals made by the regional veterinary services as a measure to deal with the pox, an incentive to keep animals inside and at the same time to strengthen farmers for the purchase of feedingstuffs. Fourthly, the amount of compensation was EUR 10 for others at 5,5 to 6,5, depending on the appropriations secured by the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development each time. There was no stability. Could he secure credit? He was giving. The origin of the appropriations was from different sources, from de minimis or from other appropriations from the Ministry of Rural Development. Payments were also made directly by OPEKEPE or by the Ministry, without compiling payment statements from the veterinary service, based on the records sent together from all Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. There was no notification of payments and according to information from the veterinary service of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, only a few times from that regional agency, OPEKEPE requested information to correct some errors in the situations sent by the Agency. Who were paid, paid, and what are the payment amounts, the Regional Central Veterinary Office of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, unfortunately, learned from farmers themselves. Also, in our services, because of their involvement, similar records have not been compiled in our files confirming or not these payments. What do we do now? Mr Colleague, there is indeed a problem. So, as you can see, we also have difficulties in giving state aid without the European Commission being approved. Because, if we do so, we will reinstate situations like those that we had previously with the fines and charges that came into our country. However, we are nevertheless investigating the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the possibility of granting some targeted aid. I would stress that some targeted aid for the loss of income actually existed for farmers. But, as you can see, in one hour's time, there is no direct budgetary difficulty. However, it is an issue that concerns us, and I honestly say to you, that we will find some way - because it is not too much of the money - to be able to compensate these farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ilhan, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u41	Minister, I am glad first to acknowledge that these people have lost an income and that there is the problem. You have described for three to four minutes a chaotic situation, Minister, which prevails in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace with regard to services. You said that expenditure was not foreseen by the previous government, you said that there is no coordination, you said that what the Ministry and the public services were paid for by farmers. But, Minister, is this a situation here? You three years are Minister, you are government. Good, I recognise that expenditure may not have been foreseen by the previous government and poorly recognised. In fact, there are problems with the administration and management of funds or coordination of services, with regard to OPEKEPE, ELGA or other services and veterinary medicine. But shouldn't you have a plan, a timetable, a vision, a regime, so that people don't mind? What is to blame today for the Greek veterinarians, the citizens, for the chaos that you described? So, as we say in my village, the bride who's gonna pay her? Who is responsible here for this whole situation? Finally, you yourself accepted and admitted that the previous governments were paying out various credits from the Ministry. Couldn't a credit have been foreseen? So we had to bring this here with a timely question to take care of it? Minister, this is where the Greek people hears us. You have put the blame on the public and the administration in which you are headed - I say again - for all this evil which is happening and for not paying them. I would like a more convincing answer, because this situation, not only will it not convince the farmers upstairs, but it will make them even more angry, it will go crazy, as we say, we are doing well to blame all this? So, Minister, we are waiting for a more convincing answer and a timetable. So you said about a targeted aid, I get it, but this targeted aid is what is it and when is it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u42	We thank the honourable Member and his consistency in time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr Colleagues, you either don't want to understand me or you want to create a picture that we didn't do anything. I'm telling you one thing, that all this mess we discussed before is an issue that concerns functions of other times. We, particularly on Community aid, have found loose ends since 2008. It is therefore not easy, how much more so when you are paying, especially outside the European Commission's resources, you must also haunt this issue and at the same time ask for permission. Because, if we do not have the European Commission's permission, I repeat that fines and charges will fall on our heads. So give us the opportunity to look at the matter. We have already reached the period 2014-2015, which we have closed all these loose ends and put one class in. Finally, now the Greek farmer and the farmer know when he will be paid and how much he will be paid. So now only one good thing you had to tell us about all these loose ends that come back from the past, we're slowly trying to solve them. The rest concerning parliamentary control, other hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Project "Good Summer Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, ten eight students and two teachers attending from the 35th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them Before entering the next timely question, you will allow me to read out some timely questions that will not be discussed. Cause: inconveniences of Ministers due to miserable obligations. The fifth, under No. 1326/16-3-2018, topical question by MP II, Athens, Greece, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Police in the protection of VIP persons", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Toska. The third, with number 1316/13-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "Increase in insecurity in Patras areas, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Toska. The tenth under number 1286/12-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Antonios Balomenakis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Coverning gaps in the Fire Corps by the participants of the 2011 competition”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Toska. Elected number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Knowledge of the para-state website became the unprecedented attack on the A.T. It will not be discussed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Toska. The twelfth under No 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the T.A.T.) It will not be discussed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Toska. The fourteenth under No. 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on revelations of P. Kammenos" will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister, Mr. Toska. Also, the first question under number 1333/19-3-2018 of the first cycle of the Grevena MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Health insurance for operators - drivers of agricultural machinery" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Happy Achtsioglou. Likewise, the sixth question under number 1328/16-3-2018, the first question of the President of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Scientific documentation of a Ministerial Decision on a reduction of the disability rate for people in the range of autism”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Petropoulos. The second question under number 1366/20-3-2018, the second question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Supporting pensions and allowances due to contributions due", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister, Mr. Petropoulos. The fourth question under number 1361/20-3-2018, the second question by MP II, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Repeal of Article 12 of Law No.4387/2016 and amendments of the Law of the Ministry of Finance “Agreements on the purchase of games”, will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction of the Minister of Petropoulos. The first question under number 34844/201/13-2-2018 will then be discussed and an application for the submission of documents of the reporting and questions of the Member of Parliament of the New Democracy Mr.South Mitaraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘PRIS grant (private legal persons) without criteria and procedures’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanos Fotio. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as we had recently discussed in the plenary of the House in a bill you tabled, in a direct order introduced by Mr.4368/2016, you enabled the Minister of Labour to grant from the state budget non-governmental organisations active in the field of labour issues. This law did not prescribe any criterion, no procedure and no funding limit. You came with Law 4520/2018 with a provision that we voted against and made a legislative improvement which, according to some law-makers, neglects and introduce some minimum conditions that were already in existence since 2014 also apply to these grants. I asked you in committee then to tell us what non-governmental organisations were sponsored by using this direct provision since the adoption of the law in 2016. You told me then to go to parliamentary control, if I want answers, and I went. On 13 February I tabled a question and a request for documents which you did not reply to within the time limit provided for in the Rules of Procedure. So I come here today and make this question up to date and ask for these specific figures: how many and what legal persons have been subsidised under Law No.4368/2016? What is the total amount allocated and per NGO? On which criteria and under what procedures? Have the conditions of Law 4731/1999 been applied to these grants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr Metarakis, I have come here today, precisely to remove all suspicions and - I imagine - your mistaken crises regarding the title of your question, which is both wrong and misleading. ‘Privatisation of private-law legal persons without criteria and procedures’. Mr Metarakis, as you know, there is no such possibility in the Greek state, because there are many laws in place to grant a legal person private law. So today, I am here not only to give you all the information, because you have asked for a lot of evidence, which was not easy for our services to have it ready, so I have brought it and will obviously be tabling it, but also to clarify exactly what is happening. Law 2646/1998 laid down which legal persons of a non-profit-making nature may be subsidised by the State. In other words, only ECA entities certified via ECAI could be financed. He did not define any criteria, conditions and conditions. Law 2731/1999 lays down certain first conditions for financing. But what you are talking about is whether the restrictions and criteria laid down in Article 12(2) have been followed. 3 of Law 2731/1999 in point 4 of your question, you are ignoring - it seems - that this law has been replaced by your own law, Law 4170/2013. So the legal regime under which we are giving grants today is followed first by Law 2731/1999, by Law 4170/2013 and the specific amendments we have made to Law 2646/2016. What were we doing in the amendment, Mr. Metarakis? We have not changed any criteria, no prerequisites from existing laws. We are applying exactly the existing laws, which I say are incomplete here. In other words, as I will explain immediately afterwards, by submitting the information you have asked me, you will see that all this legislation, unfortunately, lays down standard criteria, that is, if the institution is certified, if it has submitted its statute and another two - three elements. It does not define any qualitative criterion, with which, i.e. the entities are financed. We have kept the statistics from previous years and, as I will explain below, we have continued to subsidise ourselves on the same terms. But today we are in a position to know this notorious state of private-law legal persons, NGOs and so on, which you have left to be gigantic and which has become six hundred such institutions, as we discovered since last year's law for voting and compulsory e-planning. That is why the entire state, which was being sponsored - as I say again, will immediately in my dentext - and which we have continued to grant under the same conditions, after processing all of its elements, which we now have in the Greek state for the first time, we will bring a framework law which determines the modulations of each individual, its control elements, the quality controls that we need to do, and so on, to see in the future who gives the state his money. Therefore, nothing has changed as to how credits, unfortunately, were awarded on formal criteria by the laws. That is what we are doing so far, because we did not have the mapping of all legal persons under private law. Today we have it and will proceed to a detailed law. So the House expects us to bring in a single framework law for the functioning of all these institutions, for the ways in which they are financed and for all the conditions, which must be met at all levels, as I shall analyse immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty one students and students and five educational sessions from the 2nd General Lyvas High School. The House welcomes them. Please, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I feel that I am reprotective, because the Minister spoke for six minutes and said absolutely nothing about the substance of the question. She made a historical retreat to case law, but she didn't tell us a word about her own minister since 2016, who passed the straight arrangement, how much money she gave and on what criteria NGOs. That's what I've been trying to find out for three months and the Minister doesn't answer. We should probably also come back with a timely question. Madam Minister, there is indeed a general law of 1999, which concerns bilateral cooperation, which concerns external action. In fact, the Government of New Democracy came in 2013 and laid down specific conditions by Law No 4151. But the question here is something else and you're acting like you don't want to hear it. You have come, the SYRIZA Government, and has made a new provision with Law No.4368/2016, which gave it directly to the Minister of Labour - it is your law, it has been tabled for the first time, it is a straightforward provision - the right without criteria to use what it wants from the Ministry's budget and to give it to non-governmental organisations, which, as I told you in my speech to the House, are not controlled either for the contracts they make or for the recruitments they make. I mean, I'll just say it so people can figure it out. Here comes the Minister of Labour, he gives what he wants to any NGOs he wants. This NGO, in turn, employs anyone who wants, gives whatever wages he wants, has whatever board he wants, pays and does whatever contracts he wants to cover work that, according to the law, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. Now, if you want to privatize the Ministry of Labour it's a conversation. If you want, let's get out of here. However, we are talking here about a matter of transparency. I want you not to tell us a philosophy about how you will come to legislate better about NGOs in the future and to say to you: "Yes, Madam Minister, very good idea", but to tell us specifically, since the day you obtained legislative authority from the Greek Parliament in 2016, what acts you have signed, about what NGOs and how much money you have given them. The second close question is: We exercise some control over these NGOs, where are the Greek people's money going? If you do not answer today, we will have to come to a timely question or any other procedure. Three months I ask for a simple answer and you tell me theories and philosophies. I hope in your dentistry you don't do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr Metarakis, and actually in time. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr Metarakis, I really wonder if you don't know the procedure, so I'll repeat it. First of all, Mr Mitaraki, there are the figures I shall be tabling. Don't make a fuss, since it's a minute's story. EUR 6,74.286 was distributed from the State budget in 2016 and an amount of EUR 7.113.481 was distributed in 2017. Why am I saying you're making a fuss for no reason? For the simple reason, Mr Mitarakis, you seem not to know that budget money is distributed to the region on the basis of statistics from previous years. Do you think the ministry gives it the way it wants? You don't know that! In other words, we have a budget every year. You heard him. It's about 6.5 million, about 7 million, etc. We allocate this budget to the regions on the basis of the statistics we have had in previous years. We didn't change anything. At that time, the regions, Mr Mitaraki, call on the legal persons of private law and the NGOs to submit their requests and the regions choose whom they will give to and how much money they will give to each other. In other words, the NGOs, the legal persons of private law, etc., are chosen by the regions - not the Ministry - and they provide us with the documents laid down by the law, which, as I said before, is, unfortunately, with existing legislation, typically and not evaluatively. The Ministry simply controls the legality of reporting data from the regions. Where do you see the interventions of the Ministry of Labour?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u52	If you don't give us the decisions, we don't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Metarakis, you seem to be completely unaware of the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u54	Bring us our decisions!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u55	You're missing! And you can't ignore when you've ruled the country for so many years. We therefore check the legality and completeness of the supporting documents. Why did we make this amendment? Why, Mr Mitarakis, you have left exponentially large institutions, which are of great importance to the country's prosperous policy. In particular, I mention the ELEPAP, which you funded under special programming contracts. So all our financial services have come and told us that this can no longer be done. I have therefore tabled the amendment, which said that in addition to the criteria and those that applied until then - nothing has changed from that - we can finance, after a reasoned opinion by the Ministry, additional legal persons under private law. Who have we financed in addition to the regional proposals? ELEPAP and the Federation of Deaf. EUR 72,000 was given to the Deaf Federation. These are the actions we have done. It's all in "HUMANY" - don't make babies! - So at any time you could find them. It's all posted. So I think your current question has other objectives. Suddenly, you say that something is happening in this area that you have left it for so many years without laws, without a legislative framework, without anything, to suggest regions themselves. Do you not know that regions are being introduced to which legal persons and NGOs we will give? Don't you know the Minister, based on these suggestions, arranges? What don't you know? That we only do legal control? That's gonna end, yeah. The new framework law will therefore define the conditions, the detailed conditions, the modulations based on the functioning of each institution, and in this way there will be priorities each year. However, asking me today to change for a state that has handed us over to social protection is at least, in my view, funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u56	Madam Minister, will you testify for something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u57	I'll testify here, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u58	No, let's read them at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth with No. 1362/20-3-2018 topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: “For the program “Help at Home” and the conversion of workers' contracts in indefinite time”. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The "Help at Home" programme today serves 100 thousands of our fellow people who join vulnerable social groups. We're talking about over-ages, S.H.I.E.L.D. and so on. It works for about three and a half thousand workers. It's working around fifteen years. The workers in the programme offer social support and assistance, but are with labour contracts, renewal contracts every year. Each time they are in the air and each time the funding is reduced. And, of course, uncertainty and insecurity also characterise those people who need help and the workers themselves. Keep, too, like previous, continuous extensions and the program is between wear and incorporation. Perhaps this facilitates reactionary designs for such prognostic structures aimed at the most impoverished over-ages in order to deliver to commercialisation and profitability. But the workers are still hostage too. The number is falling, retiring, supplementing, but there is no and needs are multiplying. Unfortunately, in words you recognize the problem, but in practice you are following what the previous ones have done. In fact, you know that this programme no longer belongs to European programmes. This is also used as an alibi to ensure that contracts are not renewed, and in that sense we must immediately - and that is what we ask you with today's question - that you provide a solution, ensuring the continuity of the programme, with funding and enlargement, but also with the workers, by transforming their contract into an indefinite period of time, because this ensures even better the perpetuation of the programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, in describing the role of the criticality of the programme and the employment status of workers in this programme we will agree. After all, many times you have heard from me in this Chamber - and from outside this Chamber - that, especially for workers who are employed eight, ten, fifteen years under the status of the renewed contracts, there is a real problem of revealing their real employment relationship and restoring it, because it hides another kind of employment relationship. But what, as you know, is a firm position on the part of the government, the restoration, in other words, of the real employment relationship, presupposes certain steps that will be solid in law, so that we do not have any moves that will be taken next day. They will take the next day on the basis of the existing legal framework, namely the Constitution, which has an explicit reference to the question of the conversion of contracts. On the other hand, we will see how we can make use of EU directives prohibiting the abuse of the concept of the contract of employment. This is our strategy. We have told her on several occasions in meetings with the workers. There is no visit to the region I have not met with the local clubs and also the Ministry here with the pan-Hellenic body. It is not right, then, to create a sense of insecurity, when, as you quite rightly said, this programme has been stopped for years from being financed by European funds, and precisely because it continues to be financed by national resources, what is it doing? It suggests our unscrupulous willingness to continue. You know very well that the program has been extended until 2019, and there is a more comprehensive design of these benefits, these services, in the area of social policy. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Mrs Fotou, is next to me, and we are working on a comprehensive solution to this problem, together with other programmes, against the present reality of the fragmented social services. The government's commitment is clear: no position is at stake. It is ensured that funding is provided and our aim remains stable, so that we can resolve the labour issue as well. It is one of the cases of workers who are actually entitled to have a stable employment relationship at some point, since, anyway, they cover permanent and permanent needs. Not all cases are the same, and I say this by referring to a representative of the Communist Party, who does not miss the opportunity for any contractor, whether he has eight months or has two eight months, to propaganda the irresponsible, the lame legal argument and the position to convert all contracts into indefinite time. You say that in other cases, such as clean-up workers and, in fact, now that it is developing for the first time after ten years, a recruitment contest of eight thousand eight hundred people for permanent posts, you come and indirectly undermine this competition, you undermine stable employment relationships. You're playing with people's agony. One hundred and ten thousand people are currently applying for this contest, showing how much need there is for stable employment relationships. So you come and tell people who knew it was a certain time, no one promised them anything different, and I talk about the workers in cleanliness, not about the "Help at Home" - for them I was clear - who knew that they were contractors, that all these employment relationships should be automatically turned into vague ones, when you know that, even if the government did, the next one would swallow up in the courts. So we need not play with issues of the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u64	Minister, every worker, every man has the right to work, to decent work, to permanent and stable and at a decent wage, so that he can live, not to be held hostage and not be begged. We claim this and we pride ourselves that the Communist Party of Greece brings most positions, questions, pressures on workers' rights. Much more, when a person is a contractor, it means he has gained an experience in this subject. It is therefore entitled to a more permanent employment relationship, and that is why we will, of course, put pressure on you. You know what? I'll tell you very clearly. People know it, and you know it. Contractors are often made with ruffles. They are the dependent votes and, as you can see, they are not our votes. But we believe that people have the right to be permanent and stable. And we do not see how they are expressed politically, although they should normally strengthen the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u65	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u66	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u67	They'll be persuaded. Don't worry about it. The mockeries, ladies, are eaten by the spoon and by the previous ones and by you. What's gonna happen? We meet every day. I would like to refer to this 'Help of the House' programme. You have good intentions, Minister, but in words rather than in actions. You are not answering specifically what workers will be confident of. This program, as it is structured, can be blown up in the air. The insecurity they feel is that there may not be any renewal of contracts again. Look into it. We'll bring you more evidence. In some municipalities, we have heard that they do not sign up for payments, because there is no European programme. And they take it as an alibi. So don't say that we make myths. We didn't come in here to say that. And if anyone wants to identify something in the JRC, it's that he's not lying. With regard to the "Help at Home" programme itself, they are services aimed at vulnerable population groups. In fact, demand is higher. Today it may be about a hundred thousand, but applications exceed five hundred thousand, because they are people who are not fully served and need special help. They're people living lonely, who don't have enough financial resources. On the occasion of this, I would like to tell you that the International Monetary Fund has been pushing to begin with a reduction in wages and pensions in 2019 - another reduction - and a reduction in duty-free at EUR 5,500. This means that these people will need more than these services. More poverty comes for retired people, and these vulnerable groups cannot be abandoned. It's inhuman and barbaric. You say that you are prevented by the framework of the Constitution and by European legislation. Yes, they shield and perpetuate temporary employment relationships and public contracts and flexibility in employment. This is expanding. But I'll tell you something. That is what the previous ones told us. They told it to you, too, when you asked questions to us. The same answers you give us. But three years you've been government. You should have made a solution. In fact, at the moment, which is financed by the state budget, there is no commitment from memoranda. If, therefore, it is not your intention to privatise this service and to shrink funding, we want your commitment here and now to make these workers' contracts permanently binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u68	Mrs Manolakou, please finish. We've already reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. The figures - all the newspapers today - show that forced confiscations of accounts, homes, etc. They have suffered six out of ten taxpayers, i.e. more than 60%. It will therefore be increased by such measures. So the only realistic solution to keep and develop the 'Help at Home' programme is for workers at this stage to have indefinite contracts - we want your commitment in an absolute way - not until 2019, but for changing working relationships. It ensures both the programme and the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Minister, here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u71	Ms. Manolakou, I recognize a advance in your political position. You said for the first time - I have not heard it so clearly in other cases - that we have good intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u72	In words, however, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u73	At least that's a step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u74	That's how you fool people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u75	From there on, you have also made another reference, which is a little contradictory in relation to the content of your written question. You said about the contractors that some of them have entered with the mayor's rumors. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u76	In general, I have been saying this for 15 years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u77	There is no 'general'. All contractors have entered the ASP criteria for many years now. Let's leave this myth. This myth is invoked by the Right, which wants to obscure the reality, which is really targeted at what you said, privatisation. Our commitment is clear to us. We do not want this type of social services. This social state that we are trying in conditions of fiscal crisis and bankruptcy in the country to put nails and teeth, and there have been clear samples even in these years of the crisis, we do not want speculation and economic interests to be handed over. You would not notice before I told you that the Ministry of Labour is working on an overall programme, the 'Ophili' programme, which concerns the third age and vulnerable groups. In there will include the program "KPHHH", "CAPH", "Help at Home", so that now in a definitive, permanent way, on solid basis, we can see the issues of the specific benefits in this area. The fact, I repeat, that while the 'Help at Home' programme has ceased to be financed since 2013 from European funds, it remains in operation and is extended until at least 2019 shows that there is obviously no risk of losing the slightest job, nor of privatising or abandoning. We want it upgraded. And there very soon, I repeat, Mrs Fotio will present the overall government proposal in the next few months. As far as the right to work is concerned, I, too, will agree with you. Yes, that must be our aim, that must be the vision that we must have for society, the right to anyone to have a safe, decent job. It has never been achieved in human history by now. However, from there on, it will not cease to be a real social, strategic target for our own Left. I am sure that once this proposal has been presented, all these objections and remarks, the suspicions you may have made will be dissolved. That is where I am going to expect the Communist Party to recognise this government initiative, and at least that we should not, I would say, in the same trenches, but on the same side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u79	Let me make it clear that I've been hired. It is therefore fair that they should be transformed into an indefinite period of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u80	Mrs Manolakou, you're not listening. Before we move to the last timely question for today, you will allow me to read out the timely questions that will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 1330/19-3-2018, on the second question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Serious complaints by workers of the National Theatre", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Lydias Konordos, due to a workload. The eighth Question No 1364/20-3-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the serious problems of the National Storming Centre of Heraklion (ESAKI), will not be discussed due to a professional trip abroad of the State Secretary of Culture and Sport Mr. Georgios Vasiliadis. The ninth under number 1329/16-3-2018 topical question from the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Glory loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace", will not be discussed due to an imminent journey by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikolaos Kotzias, in Skopje. Also, the thirteenth third under number 1150/26-2-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to an imminent journey by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias in Skopje. The following questions will not be discussed to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis: The third, with number 1336/19-3-2018, top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The end of work at the School of Archangelos Rhodes”, is not discussed due to the failure of the services of the Ministry to collect the required data within the predefined deadline. Also, the fourth question with number 1380/20-3-2018, the first question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need for interventions on the old national road through the city of Larissa and Larissa-Volos", is not discussed due to the failure of the Ministry's services to collect the necessary data within the prescribed deadline. For all of this, there is a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government. We shall now proceed to the debate on the last question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. This is the third question with number 1834/5-12-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP II Athens, Neos Kostantinos (Kostis) Hatzidakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Athens transport: taxpayers pay more money for worse services". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I should first of all like to point out that there is once again the unacceptable issue of the vast majority of questions put by colleagues from all the parties to this House not to be answered by Ministers. The Prime Minister, when he had put it in this Chamber a few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis, said he would instruct the ministers to respect Parliament more. Nor did the Prime Minister or anyone - almost - listened to him. And indeed, I would ask you at the end of the procedure to tell us today how many questions have been answered and how many have not been answered. You can't do that! And it has nothing to do with government and opposition, but with the functioning of the institutions. My own question was tabled on 5 December. December, January, February, March, we're at the end of March. This cannot be considered to be tolerated and, above all, this government cannot claim a title of progressive government of the country. I'm coming to my question. In the urban transport of Athens, Minister, amazing things are happening, with this government that even came as 'Robin of the poor'. There's not much I need to say, four elements only: Based on the published balance sheets and what we all know, we have an increase in the ticket in 2015-2016 by 17%, a reduction in revenues - with the hampering that has since occurred - by 21%, more taxes for taxpayers to cover the deficits of urban transport of 18% and fewer buses and trolleybuses on the streets of Athens. How much? 60%. Otherwise, this government serves the poorest, the populace. Let each one draw his own conclusions. And it would be a good thing, Minister, to give us some explanations of this situation. But there is also a more specific issue, which I would like to raise. From the balance sheets of these years, published, it appears that in OSCE, the urban transport of Athens, we have reduced expenditure in a number of sectors such as electricity, natural gas, water, repairs and maintenance of buses, etc. For example, repair and maintenance costs decreased by 23% compared to previous irreversible governance. And that, of course, also leads to fewer buses running. But note something even more: at the time we have a reduction in these costs, which are crucial for the operation of urban transport, what do we have at the same time? We've got a 61% increase in benefits to third parties. Under the code "pays and costs of third parties" we have an increase of 91% in two years. And in'safety and security' we have a 30% increase for 2015-2016. If you compare to 2014, especially in safety, we have an increase of 172%. Why am I talking about security? They're making it to security companies. From the position that Mr Mavraganis sits today a few months ago, Mr Spirtz had said that the companies sequiuriti - he had not provided evidence, of course, but had said so - he is behind the trolleyers who burned the trolleys. So these companies, which he denounced were behind the bullies, gave Mr. Spirtz more money by 172% compared to 2014. And I wonder: Is this government an uncivilized ship? What is this government? And what's going on at the Transport Department? What's their direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Comrade, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u83	Do they really not feel the need, even today, to apologise to the poorest people, who have an increasingly lower level of transport, but at the same time have to put their hands in the pocket to cover costs of super-thirds? And who are these thirds? And, Minister, today you have an obligation to be absolutely clear about this. Who are the third? Who are your party friends who get this revenue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u85	Why did guard expenditure so much increased? I expect clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u86	Minister, please give me some time to explain something Mr. Hatzidakis asked. Mr. Hatzidakis, twenty-three were the questions that were scheduled for today. Seven were answered and the remaining sixteen were not answered, many of them justified. Because, as you can see, Mr Vassiliou and Mr Kotzias could not be here because of a trip abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u87	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Spirtzis is reasonable and next, when he follows a bill and we have the committees...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u89	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u90	Yes, and Mr. Mavraganis is his partner in this bill. So it is a bill that is very important, which will be discussed today. And it makes sense that he cannot focus on current questions. And it can be scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u91	Could he be for me, and he can't for the other two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u92	That's not true. Don't apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u93	I'm not apologizing for anyone. You asked, and I have to answer. As also, for example, Mrs Fotio for questions that were here at the Ministry of Labour could be answered and she did not answer. It's procedure issues. On the other point you have said, Mr Hatzidakis, whether the Minister or the State Secretary will answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u94	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u95	You said the Minister should come and answer. Here's Mr. Mavragans and he's answering your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u96	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u97	I probably didn't understand. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes and I'm sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was expected that you should explain some things. Clearly, then, I shall reply, Mr Hatzidakis. And I wonder where you're asking this question for once. You had received apostostic responses last time. First, then, are you accusing us of reducing revenue, yes? Well done. Ministerial decision 2015, which we are very proud of, Mr Hatzidakis: to move freely, free of charge, as the Greek society and the government ought to do so to the people who yourself have led to the heart of unemployment by means of public transport. Clearly, therefore, the Greek state budget has taken some weight to support our fellow people who - a million two hundred thousand people - led to the heart of unemployment and reduced by four hundred thousand we. Second, what did you say? That I had the cost of keeping 2 million euros in 2014? Yes, sir. You have read the publication of the annual financial statements. Except that, Mr Hatzidakis - because you have passed through this ministry and you do not justify not know - the accounting statements had not been consolidated by 2014 and we consolidated them in 2016. The general Catholic, signed by STASY - just for STSY, not all of OSCE - says about that period of EUR 4,500,000. I'm filing it, please. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Nikolaos Mavraganis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you understand, Mr. Hatzidakis? Let's go down. What else did you ask? A raise, he says, in third-party wages to our own people. Listen to what our 'ours' people are and if the funds for third-party remuneration were actually increased. In 2013: third party benefits, PPC, etc.: EUR 34 million. In 2014: EUR 33,8 million. In 2015: EUR 31,8 million. In 2016: EUR 30.9 million. Even lower. In 2017: EUR 25 million. Decreased constantly. Third party rewards now, in here is the telematics and the online ticket. Your contracts, which we perform. We're doing good because they had to be executed. So listen: In 2013: 5.7 million, without telematics, nothing. In 2014: 5.7 million without telematics, without an electronic ticket. In 2015, the telematics and electronic ticket has not started: 4,9 million euros. Decreased by 15%. In 2016, telematics begins to enter: 7.4 million and, to be precise because you asked me: 3.3 million euros of them, telematics. If we remove 3,3 out of 7,4, do you know how much it is? EUR 4.1 million. I mean, it's reduced by 20% of you. In 2017: 23 million. How much of this is ASK, online ticket and telematics? It's 20.6m euros. Take it away, Mr. Hatzidakis. It's less than 3 million when you handed it over to us with 5.7. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I have so far known about existing socialism. From now on, we'll talk about existing surrealism. This government and this ministry are the government of subordinate surrealism. Mr Minister, you have answered a question, not mine. Not only because you have not referred to all the boulevard of urban transport, which has led to the increase in tickets, the reduction in revenue and the increase in what the taxpayers pay to cover the deficits, but also because you have provided data which do not concern what I have spoken about. I referred to specific codes. You obviously spoke of other codes from the information you referred to. Of course, I am not surprised by this attitude of the Ministry, because the Ministry has been divorced from reality for some time now. It believes in dogma "when reality does not suit us, the worse for reality itself." Listen. The Minister told us earlier that 'inexpensively various people are now being transported, who have a financial problem'. Really, Minister? Are you insane? Are these deficits not covered in the transport? Do holes remain open, based on your knowledge of economics? Because I saw from the budget - I mentioned it before and I will submit all the information - that taxpayers put a deeper hand in the pocket. 18% more taxes have been paid to cover the transport deficits that you have created. And if you see the budget and see the tax analysis, you will see that the vast majority of taxes are indirect taxes, which means they are paid again by poor people. Who are you kidding? Who are you kidding? You're getting the language out of society too, instead of apologizing. From that point on, you spoke of PPC data. PPC was supposed to be the third ones, those who absorbed the above credits. Really? Was that PPC? But here is the balance sheet and it seems that for electricity, while in 2015 25.5 million euros were paid, in 2016 23.790 million euros were paid. The current is therefore less. Are you here to make fun of this House? Because it's not me. I know the evidence and you're not gonna make fun of me. But at some point you should stop all of you in this government having this incredibly arrogant concept and mock the world every day, as the lie has become your second nature. Minister, you have also referred to the online ticket. You should ask for an apology again. A few days ago you told your ministry that a week ago the electronic ticket system would have been completed. Today we all know that of the sixty-two metro and electric stations, the system has only been shut down in twenty-six and the ball continues and you're just the ministers of the bat. That's what this is about. You want to keep going? We will never end this situation. It's not just buses that aren't available. This is where a complaint came out just the day before yesterday saying that out of the sixty-seven subway trains, the twenty-two are out of service. The metro of Athens has been the jewel of the city since you were created, with your philosophical mood and your great performance on management issues, you have managed to immobilize the metro trains as well, thus reducing the service of the citizens at this level. Minister, next time you will come with more seriousness and modesty in this House. You cannot go on with that logic of demagogy and unbearable lightness. Above all, apologise to the Athenians and to all Greek citizens, especially to the poorest, because you have beenhaved with this logic, which leads to the haggling of urban transport and, more generally, to the level of service of our poor fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u101	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u102	Mr Hatzidakis, because you asked me to be absolutely precise, I will continue because I did not get there before. So listen to OSCE’s amazing finances on your own duty. I mean your government. You have carried out every year obligations in previous years, amounting to EUR 108 million, which we paid in 2016. One of the prisoners. That's practically what happened. What else did you say? 'Fake', he says, is the information I give. Is the general Catholic of STASY from the time your administration signed it is ‘fake’? Study it, Mr. Hatzidakis. I think you've studied financially, if I'm not mistaken, if you haven't forgotten. Perhaps - and that is why I will make a general reference, like you did - to have a little dizzy - I mean, politically - to the European Court of Auditors on the famous 2013 contract for concessionaires, which you have reduced by 50% the material object of the works, that is to say,'scan' the roads, but you have given more than 1.2 billion. Maybe that's why you're less careful. Because you spoke about an increase in the ticket, along with a minimal increase in real time from 1.20 to 1.40, did you not note that there was an increase of twice that increase in the transport project? So, what did you do? Having dispersed the "capital-hunters" to the right and left, you assured fines to people who were unable to use in the seventy minutes, so we increased the supply in ninety minutes, without increasing the reduced ticket that remained at 60 minutes, and the other one went from 1.20 to 1.40. At the same time, however, we gave the right to free movement to all the unemployed, to the vulnerable groups, which you had thrown them all into the age of unemployment. Do you want me to say something else, Mr. Hatzidakis? Because you said that this is what the Greek people pay for, social policy indeed is paid for by the general budget, which the Greek people actually pay. But you know what? It escapes you that after 1971, for the first time in 2016 and for the second time in 2017 there were the only non-negative budgets in Greece on the back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Regions on transport issues and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 March 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u105	The House therefore agreed. Before Mr Karastasis is placed, I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis, for three minutes to develop some amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to place myself in two already tabled amendments. Amendment No 1522 and Amendment No 17 on fire protection issues. As every year, in this year, we are giving funding directly to the inter-democratic links of Ottas that are responsible for the fire protection of various mountainous tumors. That's what happens every year. I think that in time, before last year, we are tabling this year, so that we can be ready with the beginning of the anti-nuclear period. In other words, the difference from last year's layout is simply that it is adapted to this year's year, in 2018. As an example, there are the Fire Protection Associations for Penteli, for Parnitha and elsewhere. The second amendment has a general number of 1527 and a special 21, which concerns the possibility for the solid waste management bodies that are set up by municipalities to be financed from the resources of the municipalities and in cases where they are not directly contributing to the construction of various PPPs, public-private partnerships, but indirectly contribute through a programme agreement signed by them. So far, then, there has been the possibility of direct funding from these bodies in the event that they were engaged in the implementation of PPP projects, and now this can also be done if they have indirectly participated through a programme agreement with the region or other bodies. These two are the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Apostolos Karastasis, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would like to inform the House that the list of entries is also opened, which will be closed at the end of Mr Karamanlis' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting to the House today a multiplier bill, because of both its volume and its multi-purpose topics concerning the area of inland passenger and commercial transport. It is a bill that, precisely because of its theme, gathered public opinion at the time of its discussion in the committee responsible and, therefore, as usual in these cases, they were formulated by the various media opinions which have often abstained from reality. On the other hand, in the committee responsible, I think there has been a constructive dialogue with many key points, both by colleagues from the other parties, of course, of the Officerial Representation, which has chosen to be costed behind the specific media, but also by professional interests of the transport sector, and by the stakeholders, who agree or disagree with the provisions of this Treaty. With this draft law we are therefore trying and hopefully succeed in modernising the operation of the land transport sector, a sector crucial to the country's social and economic life and to the security of citizens. The bill is divided into six thematically distinct parts. The first part includes arrangements for passenger transport. The second amendment to the Road Traffic Code. In the third part there are arrangements for buses and buses. The fourth part refers to arrangements for topics relating to vehicles and drivers. The fifth part contains provisions with supervised bodies of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. With the provisions of Part One, we aim in general to reorganise the operating arrangements of passenger cars, rationalise the Disciplinary Law, introduce for the first time basic and necessary rules on the market for brokering services for passenger transport, categorise infringements and regulate controls and certification of infringements. I would like here to dwell on the much-discussed Articles 12 and 13 concerning the operation of brokering companies. By these articles, 12 and 13, rules are laid down for the first time in the completely regulated market for passenger transport services, both in the case of a transport operation with public passenger vehicles - it relates to Article 12 - and in the case of the rental of private motor vehicles. In particular, Article 12 defines when natural or legal persons providing electronic or telephone intermediation services for the carriage of passengers with such vehicles are deemed to be engaged as the principal economic activity of the carriage of passengers, in contrast to whether the service of telephone or electronic intermediation is merely subsidiary and secondary. The procedure is then laid down for the licensing of the electronic or telephone intermediation operator with particular provisions depending on the country where the institution is established, if it is our country, Greece, within or outside the European Union, and depending on whether the passenger's personal data is processed and the very serious question of processing sensitive personal data is dealt with. Finally, paragraph 9 clearly stipulates, for the purposes of protecting public revenue and avoidance of misuse of tax practices, that revenue from the exercise of the brokering activity, wherever it is carried out, shall be taxed on the basis of the applicable tax legislation if the transfer takes place within the Greek territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you blamed the Transport Ministry for pretending to be the ILO and enviously zealed the role of the Treasury. It's not like that and you know it. The conditions governing the operation of the companies of each site shall be laid down by the Ministry responsible and the Ministers responsible for conducting their respective roles. Alas, if, for example, the police legislated the Criminal Code, for arresting the offenders. Now, if you would prefer not to legislate so that the profits of the companies in question go without tax to tax havens, say it clearly. Article 13 shall respectively treat natural or legal persons providing electronic or telephone intermediation for the rental of private passenger cars by means of a driver. We are not closing or prosecuting companies that are mentioned, whether that is UBER or TAXIBEAT or any other company in this area, ladies and gentlemen. We define their framework of operation, as is the right and obligation of the state. Passing to the second part, which is mentioned in the Road Traffic Code, I must point out that the Road Traffic Code is the basic legal instrument for road safety and as such must be able to guide human behaviour. Our priority is to prevent and cultivate road culture. Based on this belief, the imposition of fines is obtained by means of the new Road Traffic Code another conceptual content and is released by the current collective nature. At this point, I should like to focus a little on Articles 28 and 29, in order to fully clarify the sanctions and fines of the Road Traffic Code, because much has been heard these days. Under Article 28, therefore, all COK infringements are classified according to their risk in three categories. Some of these infringements are categorised and are specifically classified in categories S1 as associated with a high frequency of accidents and in S2 as referring to antisocial behaviour. The classification, therefore, in E1, E2 and E3 means for all infringements a financial penalty - fine, classification in S1, S2 results in excess of the fine resulting from the above and additional administrative penalties. With regard to fines in categories E1, E2 and E3, these will be fixed by a ministerial decision and will range from EUR 0 to EUR 600. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Following the adoption of the above decisions, the old penalties provided for by the existing legislation apply to infringements of the Road Traffic Code with a horizontal reduction of 50%. At the same time, it is abolished - and reasonably - the 50% discount so far, in the case of payment of the fine within 10 days of their acceptance. From this 50% reduction - this is very important - they are excluded, they do not have a reduction, alcohol-consumption-related infringements, infringements of the provisions of the 'STOP' and of the red-signalling marker, those of the demonstration of competence, impression, competition or the performance of improvised matches, as well as the infringements of the provisions laying down the way in which vehicles are to be used. Specifically for those infringements, in addition to the payment of the full fine, what existed before, it is foreseen that, in the event of their termination for a third time within five years, the driving licence shall be withdrawn. Finally, for the use of a mobile phone without the use of wireless acoustics, bluetooth or without the placing of a mobile phone in a special position for an open hearing, preventing crossing ramps for disabled persons, violating provisions for the use of a safety belt or protective helmet, casting off a vehicle of objects or substances that can cause fire, such as cigarettes, which establish infringements of these categories, provision is made for the immediate removal of signs and driving licences for sixty days and doubling of the penalty in the event of recurring within six months while the offender is required to review and re-authorise the authorisation. Sanctions for these infringements are a separate legislative initiative, as they have been found to be a daily phenomenon of road behaviour, with a serious impact on the protection of life in general and sensitive social groups in particular. With regard to the remaining regulations of the bill, Mr President, I would like to point out that they aim to ensure the sustainability of public CTEOs and their conditions of equality with private individuals. Some, of course, in this Chamber, who would very much like the private KTEO to monopolize the space, disagreed. It's all right, though. As Savvopoulos said, "the moment comes to decide who you're going and who you're going to leave." They decided in favour of private KEOs. We obviously want conditions of equality for all. The aim of the bill is to streamline legislation on the movement of buses and buses. The system of checks on the carriage of dangerous goods, the introduction of strict market rules for imported cars or light goods, to protect the final buyer. Here I would like to explain that we are showing no favor to the major importers of the new cars, making it difficult to import used, as we were accused of opposition. We are calling for specific documents beyond the country of origin's latest CTEO control, which ensures the buyer's citizen and is also an obligation for each car industry's official representative in our country to provide, with great penalties in the event of his refusal or blocking. How, then, do we favor him? Finally, I must also refer to the transition to the full grid of controls in the digital age, through the creation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of digital platforms and registers. We are building platforms that will cooperate with each other and not with each other over the past few years, which had no contact with one platform. And too much money has been spent on it, and yet one platform can still not communicate with the other. As it is, then, we are moving to digital road transport registers, workshop and artificial vehicle repair and maintenance registers, installation registers and online electronic recording of the elements of road freight carried out. The same is true of the very important, in my opinion, of establishing an observatory of standards, rates of cost and prices for road transport operations. In conclusion, I would also like to mention the provisions concerning disaster management bodies. The management of natural disasters is a deep political issue. And it focuses on how our political system plans to deal with such events by defining the priority of security, human life and the protection of socio-economic tissue. This is also the aim of this draft law. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the continuous improvement of the services of the State to the citizen is the basic obligation of every favoured state. The implementation of a system of safeguards for citizens, the introduction of rules on the market that operated without regulation, the establishment of a modern framework for dealing with infringements, particularly deterrent to those which jeopardise human life, the consequent increase in the level of road safety and the use of new technologies in the more effective supervision of vehicles, as well as freight transport and the establishment of modern control structures, are, for us, the main aim of the draft law under discussion. And I think they go hand in hand with the state's obligation, which I mentioned earlier. Their positive consequences on the economy and the daily lives of citizens will be immediate and important. I therefore call on all colleagues to vote in favour of this. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this. Because at the second reading two days ago I had tabled an amendment on the subject of amendments to Law 4412/2016 to facilitate the competitive procedures and work studies - which the Minister, in principle, accepted - I would just like to mention that in attempting to normalise the operation and processing of works, with No 4412/2016, we are making a specific proposal for the competition committees, the matureness of the works and studies auctions, the commitment of the appropriations - I mentioned it two days ago - and the extension of the certificates to register contractors until the adoption of the Presidential Decree, i.e. the MEP, as well as their financial situations in a way that facilitates competitive processes and grow faster and more efficiently, both studies and projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. This fact is crucial for the productive reconstruction of the country and the restoration of the Greek economy. And it is an amendment that the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece has been calling for for all this time, as well as for companies involved in the production of studies and projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much Mr. Karanastasis. I would ask the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, to come to Stepma. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, which was discussed in this bill, I must say that I was surprised. I did not expect the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, and in particular the Minister himself, to be so irritated and, I would say, irresponsible. Whenever he took the floor, he was firing fire against fair and unjust, against all the previous governments. He came to the point, and it's in the committee's minutes, telling us he better received burnt land. You know, Mr. Spirtzi, I won't follow you on this road. And you know that I am always trying to make a fair and constructive criticism, which is always based on serious political confrontation, and I avoid the communication fireworks, which you in the committee have used many times. However, since the courage I would say - let me say this term - has some limits, I would like to remind the Government and Members of Parliament of the good work that has been done over the three years in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. And I will do this before I go to my comments on this bill, which, as almost every body has found out, is extremely problematic. So what have you done for three years now, Mr. Minister? Who is the declarant who characterizes your term of office? Firstly, institutional paralysis. The famous Law 4412 with which you tried to change the law of public studies, works and contracts. You finally changed him in an incredibly rough way and deficit. It has huge omissions, which you yourself have admitted in public. All auctions have been frozen in the second half of 2016 as well as in the first quarter of 2017 and the problem still exists today. That is why your rapporteur has tabled an amendment which, while in her basic conception it is correct, is a terrible handwritten, in our view. You yourself have changed your bill about times. But let's go to the second point of the circus. What is the characteristic of the second point? Dismissal, allergy to independent administrative authorities. You did a competitive procedure for the wonderful container for immigrants, completely perforated in law. That is not what the Opposition says, but the Independent Public Procurement Authority has pointed out first of all, which noted that you are violating provisions of national and European law. And to see what the Minister replied: he denounced the independent authorities that it is "the acts of waste and lawlessness, which are not controlled from nowhere and only to God are apologies". You argued that ‘it is corn that the state should be given powers to so-called independent authorities’. I read your words in quotes. Here we have a political difference. What is this political difference? That you consider corn to be the independent authorities, that is, Minister, which the whole of the European Union and all the Western legal world are perceived as an institutional counterweight to the irregularities and possible arbitrariness of every executive. Third feature: a reversal to transparency in public works. One of the first things you've done is to postpone the operation of the ESADI. After all the political and technical world has risen, and after you have been under unbearable pressure, you have just decided to activate it last year. Fourth feature: Full absence of new projects. No planning for next decade's projects. Minister, if you are so kind as to tell me what you have been calling for and compromised in the three years that you have been government. Is there even one? The answer is no. All you know to do - and that's what you're very good at - is cutting ribbons into works, but others started and you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u111	How much did it cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u112	I'll tell you how much it cost now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u113	It's costing 1.2 billion, arrogant!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u114	Don't be in a hurry. I'll tell you. So the answer is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, please make it easier for the speaker. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u116	The fifth feature: the Court of Auditors' report yesterday is revealing and it comes to confirm what we are saying. Look at the way the Minister is lying, because he's very smart and he's "switching" the truth. In 2011 the works stopped due to a memorial to the Papandreou government. In 2013, 750 million were reinitiated, 90% of which was ESRB money. The famous 'first time left', experiments with Mr Varoufakis and what are you doing? They stop the works and Mrs Kretsou comes and tells you that if at 31-3-2017, we want all the money back. And what's the Minister doing? It gives a 500 million acceleration premium. Do you know where he's giving it from? From the state budget, not from European funds, as the Samara Government did. So that's a reality. And can I tell you something else? You did well. Can I tell you why? Because if you did not give this great work to contractors, they would not have finished the works. So let's also talk about the sixth feature: a lot of big projects, huge delays. Patras - Tower. In 2015, the project was ready for tender, with secured funding. You come to me,'salamite', cut it into eight pieces and three years later you have not even reached the point where we were at the time, because nothing has started, you have not compromised anything, you have not yet obtained funding and the European Commission comes by letter and makes you a strict remark, because it has been alarmed at the'salamisation' of the project. We wish that we are not supporters of the structural opposition, that we find funding for this project and start. And, if you do, we're here to say congratulations, but I'm afraid you won't. Airport Kastelios: Where is the project contract? It was negotiated and reached in March - April and the project contract has not yet been signed. What should I mention? Should I mention BOAK, a project that you announce every six months and you haven't done any study yet? What can I say about Rail Egnatia? Where you go on tour, you stress that you will also make a station, without a feasibility plan, without a study. Seventh attribute: The "days". Eighty in the EEAS, three hundred in the EEAS, two hundred ninety-five in the subway, four hundred and twenty-four with project contracts at "ROSCO", in the EUSY, when the EESC has a permanent staff of four hundred people, as Mr Hatzidakis has revealed in his question. Eighth feature: Statement or, as you say, deprivation of businesses. The case of the OSTH is typical. Through OSTH, I also go to the ninth attribute: Degradation of urban transport. I remember that various mayors of the regions of Thessaloniki had come to the committee and talked about it at the time - and you too - with the best words about the bill. But now, Minister, it is the ones who are denounced and incurring you for a reduction in services. Mr Triantafylides, Member of the SYRIZA, not of the New Democracy, is coming to table an amendment to 'Improving OSH routes'. He does well because he is very kindly - he cannot say it, of course, because he is your MP - he forsakes you because you have reduced routes to Thessaloniki. So we have fewer buses in the streets of Athens. From a thousand seven hundred buses in 2014, we now have eight hundred fifty buses. The routes to Athens, from 12 thousand to eight and a half thousand. Prices, Minister, increased. The revenues, however, have collapsed and at the same time create million-dollar deficits in urban transport, because you have an incredible populism 'all free'. But '10' is the good thing, ladies and gentlemen, I left it to you for the end. Really, that gets a bad management prize. A simple policy, which is used in all the civilised countries of Europe, is where we turned it - you have turned it into odysses for millions of metro and public transport users. The ordinary citizen, Minister, who is not privileged, who you on the left - you are supposed to defend, was the one who was afflicted. Urea, inconsistency and a complete lack of information, even for the officials, has led us to the situation we have today. Even today we speak, bars have only been closed to twenty of the sixty stations. This means that you will have a huge revenue reduction. In short, we have institutional paralysis, project delays, no new projects, no contempt for urban transport, arrogance, cost-saving, ownership of projects that are not yours, the degradation of urban transport, more expensive tickets to urban transport users. This is your work today. After this dialogue, what does the Minister come up with to close this whole thing down? With the draft legislation under discussion, a bill of problematic, anachronistic, a bill that moves contrary to the constitutional principles and principles of European law. It comes with a bill, which in the end is what target it has, to be honest in this Chamber? To serve small guilds, to strengthen bureaucracy, to create over-concentration of responsibilities with the Minister. Unfortunately, you are doing all this with a so-called left-wing idealist practice. You bring a bill, Minister, but Law 4412 is inappropriate. Why is he inapplicable? Because it takes more than two hundred and twenty of the Minister's decisions, because it takes about thirty joint ministerial decisions with other ministers, because it takes more than fifteen electronic platforms and electronic registers to register data. Badly lies, it is clear that to the government, all you care about this bill is how you will manage the various promises you made in the past about UBER and Beat. You will allow me to make a clarification. We have stressed from the start that the 'UBER' and the 'BEAT' are the 'BEAT'. The first uses non-professional drivers, is based on unfair competition and is legally located in a grey zone throughout the European Union, while the latter cooperate exclusively with professional taxi drivers. In fact, there are too many of them. No one can brake, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, on innovation, since it is both for the benefit of taxi and consumers. The debate in the committee was revealing. By your word, your style, the distortion of the facts, you have shown that you are disastrous of the new one. Two worlds conflicted, yesterday's world and tomorrow's world of innovation. You, unfortunately, are with his world yesterday. At the same time, what are you doing? You're trying to get some votes from a few trade unionists. But what are you doing? Close the eye on 'UBER'. Because what you do with this bill is to give, without you knowing, a gift to 'UBER'. And you don't do it in this bill. You have done so - because no one really disputes your intelligence, Minister - in the multi-brand plan under Article 219A, for reducing the duration of the hire of a driver from six to three hours. This framework, to understand it, favours the operation of 'UBER', and this should also be understood by drivers and taxi owners. In the meantime, however, any arrests were made with the drivers of the UBER, based on the legislative framework in force to date. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you're kind. So, to finish, who's finally paying the bride? The bride is paid by consumers, namely those who use the taxi, the bride, the drivers and the taxi professionals themselves, and, of course, the Greek society pays it. And we're going to another crucial point for the new Road Traffic Code. Article 28 provides for a reduction of fines. The original plan was talking about 40%. Eventually you did it with a legal improvement in 50%, just like bakery. Attention is also made to the 50% reduction in the speed limit infringements, and you also have income criteria. We will see all of this one by one in dentistry, which will focus on these articles. The last thing I would like to mention is that you have made a provision on imports of used vehicles. And this is part of European law. You are no longer giving Greek consumers the right to have choices and to serve, as I have told you in committee, specific business interests. Mr President, for now we are stopping here. This bill from the beginning to the end is rough and is problematic. And another thing, Minister, so I don't forget. It's unconstitutional, and I'm not saying that. We also told you in committee and now the Scientific Committee of the Parliament comes and formally submits this to you yesterday in a report - a trick. Your provisions with the databases you want to build are problematic, since they violate personal data protection procedures. It is unconstitutional, the committee says, that the new KOK for income criteria is anti-constitutional. We, as a New Democracy, therefore, cannot in any way support this bill, which goes against common sense, completely contrary to European law and hits healthy entrepreneurship and prevents the right professional taxi. We therefore vote 'no' in principle and 'no' in the articles, with few exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much Mr Karamanlis. The reason is the special speaker from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Ioannis Maniotis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill which once again demonstrates that this government is legislating in a rough, roustephetological manner and outside the necessary national economies of society. It is clear, therefore, that we will vote against a bill which, as we have said many times, is a genogram, which does not address any of the essential problems that it is supposed to be. It is an anachronistic bill, which deals with the major transport issues in our country with absolutely glamorous micro-participatory perceptions. I have raised ten major questions in committee during the debates, which I will repeat today. Before, however, I refer to these questions, I cannot and will be tempted to make a reference to the inappropriate Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras, who did not have the elementary political bravery two days ago, inaugurating the work of the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades, a project that was not only to his face, but also a project that we carried out in 2014, we symbolized, we formed a strict timetable for implementation and had the courage to present as his own, without even calling the Commissioner for Regional Development, Mrs. Corina Kretsos. That is why there was for the first time, at European state level, a reaction on the part of the European Commission. Fellowships and colleagues, it is inappropriate for a Prime Minister to inaugurate a project that is not his own and not to mention, among other things, that this project, which should have been delivered in the summer of 2016, with strict clauses that we had put against the contractor, is delivered with a delay of one and a half years, does not impose the clauses and has additionally cost Greek citizens EUR 150 million for additional services of general interest, due to the fact that for one and a half years the polluting power plants continued to operate in the first phase of the Cyclades. No apologies, no sense of political bravery, much more - I cannot say it, because I remembered it when I saw the Prime Minister at the opening - that even Souflias, when he opened his first works, called on Laliotis, and Mr Tsipras did not have the elementary sensitivity to make a reference to the Commissioner who financed it, but also to those who had advanced the project. I would also like to make a second reference to an issue on which we have asked for the resignation of Minister Stathakis, for this misery, the humiliation of the personality of tens of thousands of Greek citizens and engineers with the "I save at home". We had a framework that existed, worked, scored as the second best of the European Union in 2015 and also had money. However, three years the government was sleeping. He built an electronic platform and told us one, two, three, ten, twelve, thirteen times that he was going to activate it. Thirteen times postponed the proclaimed program "I save by House". And when the platform finally opened, the platform fell and the Minister did not have the courage to resign before the phenomenon tens of thousands of engineers wait for the application and hundreds of thousands of citizens to wait for them to join. Much more, the Minister "forgot" tells us that the previous program, "Security I", which ended in 2014, had 400 million spending for for forty thousand homes of poor households, while the current government's programme has only 250 million public budgets. Today he was bound by television that he could find another 100. Even worse is the fact that since 2015 there have been many European countries that have included in the Juncker package energy saving programmes in low-income households and average income. We had proposed to the Juncker package in 2014 to join the "Security" with 1 billion euros in this proposal. The government withdrew it. He withdrew the sentence. He has not submitted a proposal for a Juncker and 'Security' package. In 2015-only in 2015! - France joined the Juncker pack of fifty thousand homes of poor French family rulers. We're obviously overtaken by the money! We don't have to ask. We do not have to imitate what both the French and the Polish and the Belgians have done. So the government is doing absolutely nothing. I come to a second point relating to the present Minister. Because one of the issues we are not dealing with today is the issue of the daily movement of the citizens of Lefkanos by public transport. Ladies and gentlemen, I have denounced it many times and I will repeat it here: Urban transport is the experiment of the Tsipra - Kammenos Government, on which they try to sell public services, making them happy. Just listen to two numbers. On the Lefkanopne, OSCE has two thousand buses at its disposal. Usually, by the time SYRIZA - ANEL took over, a thousand six hundred and seven hundred were released. Today we are talking about buses are eight hundred with nineteen, which is less than half, because they do not have spare parts, there are no drivers, there are no tires, the government has not foreseen supporting urban transport. Would you like a second, even more specific example, to see where the policy has led and the 'I do not pay - I do not pay' policy, but also the policy of populism? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many boarding and boarding of citizens were made in 2014 in the urban transport of Athens? One billion was made forty - three million boarding and boarding. Do you know how many happened in 2017 with a government of Tsipras - Kammenos? Six hundred ten million! Nearly 50% of the use of public transport by poor citizens has been reduced. Moreover, the entrances to exits of people paying tickets have also been reduced. Today's daily newspaper report says that while it has been one week since the metro and the U.S.S.P.A. would have had the bars down to sixty-five stations, only marginally down to twenty-five. And it keeps moving without ticket payment. Would you like another example of irresponsibility and urgency for urban transport? The Government announces the famous "Line 4" metro and has it blinded. ‘Section 4’ of the metro is not connected to any other metro line or to the line of the ESAP, so that passengers can move. It starts at zero and ends again at zero! Tragic case of incapacity, demagogy and manipulation. Needless to note, of course, that this incomprehensible management of urban transport has led to urban transport which in 2014 had an operating surplus, in 2017, in the most conservative calculations, to need an additional EUR 50 million subsidy from the Greek taxpayer, with the personal responsibility of the government and its administrations. I'm coming to the bill now. I will make no mention of the fact that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has said that the provision for changing the philosophy of imposing the Road Traffic Code has serious problems of constitutionality and proportionality to Greek citizens, because it differentiates the imposition and level of fines and penalties based on income. I also need to stress what I have said many times in committee: infinite articles with infinite ministerial decisions, without any commitment and no timetable. In addition, articles which already repeat existing legislation. What does Article 4, which again speak of mixed control steps, or Articles 5 to 7, which speak of disciplinary boards, when this legislation already exists? I now come to the question of taxi for 'BEAT' and 'UBER'. And I want us to be perfectly clear and clear about what we say and how we deal with not just old-fashioned, not just Paleolithic, but the incomprehensible behaviour of the government. The other is 'BEAT' and the other is 'UBER'. "BEAT" is an application developed by Greek minds, serves eight thousand professional taxi drivers and has offered services to over one million inhabitants of Lecanopdi. UBER is actually stealing a transport project and the Court of Justice of the European Union rightly condemned it. But that's not enough. The government, the Minister, is trying to get these two approaches involved and put them into the same bag and the one I mentioned to you and the approach that we need deeper - the cab drivers have it, the truck drivers, the citizens, all of us - have it, so that we can easily, in a civilized way, use the right time and assess whether or not we are using cabs or trucks when we want to carry goods. This is the one concept in which the government and all the trade unions should be positive, because it increases transport work, because it actually increases the income of the professional passenger driver in the public sector. And it is another thing to treat the 'UBER' which has non-professional drivers, unreasonable cars many times and which tramples minimum rules for the proper operation of the transport project, without a fare. And the government of the exotic anticipated vehicle hired with a driver downloads it at three hours? So it makes it even worse at the expense of professional taxi drivers, at the expense of professionals who take their cut? Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to 'BEAT' and we say that we will assess in this article our position on the basis of the Minister's behaviour regarding the amendment. However, in any case, we support all innovations from anywhere and come, which improve the quality of the provision of passenger services from public-use cars, and we strongly condemn those intercepting transport work from professional owners or taxi drivers. And, of course, we will vote against all these provisions that reduce the vehicle's rental from 'UBER' from six to three hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u119	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u120	Yes, let me say what I know exists in your mind and you, Minister, when the time comes, change it or say that we poorly read your bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. Maybe I don't use my dentistry either. I come to another matter that is directly related to the quality of travel at Attica and has something to do with the use of a bicycle. And right, it's one of the minimum right provisions of the Road Traffic Code that supports bicycle travel. Beyond this right approach, however, to support the sustainable, sustainable urban movement in the large urban centres of the country and especially in Athens, when one comes and comes down to the raw reality, one can see the inability of this government once again. And I become quite specific: In 2014, the design, licensing and funding of the so-called "Metropolitan Pedestrian Pedestrian", which has more than twenty-five kilometers long, begins from Kifisia, passes through Ghazi, ends in Faliro and has a connection to transfer with almost all Metro and ESP stations. The first contractor of this project, which is in fact support for bicycle travel, was commissioned for the southern part - from Faliro to Gazi - in 2014, was financed and completed in 2015. For the rest of the north, his luck is missing. That would be a good move for the government if he really wants to show that he is interested in supporting the bike. My next remark is about used mopeds. I want it to be quite clear that this is a matter of road safety at the same time, but also of basic social sensitivity. Those of us from villages know very well that farmers can go to their country or poor people, the countryside and the countryside of Athens, to move around, often use double-cycles, which they have bought second-hand, because they cannot afford to pay a new dicyclopedia. Whilst the most reasonable would be the forecasts in European regulations on the import, purchase and use of used bicycles in Greece too, so that we can help the poor people who want to buy a used dicyclopedia, a duck, puts the ministry's stumbling blocks, bureaucracy, papers and counterfeits, effectively playing the game of importers of car and two-ways. That must be clear. We cannot accept that either. On the contrary, we would accept an absolute tightening of the CTEO requirements for second-hand two-circuit, even more stricter, but not through bureaucracy and too much papers indirectly exclude the Greek citizen's right to use a safe but cheap means of transport. The bill provides for many observatories, registers and many of them. No one could be against any legal provisions that modernise the way and registration of persons, vehicles, procedures, etc., except, unfortunately, there is no time commitment and there is no provision at all for this to happen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Previous observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Maniots, please, finish up. You've reached nineteen minutes. Consuming time from dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u122	I don't think I'm gonna use dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u124	In Article 67, the Government predicts that the president of the National Road Safety Council and - o of the accident will receive a salary! - Chairman of the National Road Safety Council is a member of ANELs, the former State Secretary for Transport. I sometimes wonder: is there not the elementary attempt, even as a fig sheet, to keep political or aesthetic aesthetics, at the end of the day, ethical? Your State Secretary, now, should we give her money? Why? Were previous presidents of the National Road Safety Council who didn't get any money, why did they really do a social job? Why does the president of the National Road Safety Council have to receive a reward? The Minister did not reply to my question about the issues of occupational doctors and did not reply to what is happening with the seven hundred urban transport drivers who have come down from the wheel, of whom three hundred not with the papers of doctors, but with the decisions of the administration. The Minister will tell us how many people have come down, when they have come down and when he intends to rethink those who, instead of being at the wheel and offering service to the citizens, work in other jobs, are working in heterogeneous jobs. I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your understanding - on the issue of the incomprehensible article of 88 on the Civil Aviation Service. Listen, colleagues of SYRIZA, who will be invited to vote in favour of the bill. In Article 88, the Minister for Transport, for his own account, provides for direct renting of buildings, for his own account, is to decide on joint actions with a private sector and decides on behalf of him directly, without any competition, to do what he wants. I warned the Minister in committee and told him: 'Be careful, Minister, because it is probably a trap'. I hope he realizes it's a political trap and not to be a participant in this scandal. I denounced something. Do not think of the Government and the Minister having direct delegation to the Civil Aviation Service issues, i.e. upgrading or modernising the radars of the Civil Aviation Agency. I hope that this suspicion will be disproved. It would be a huge scandal, however, if the Minister today in plenary were not committed that, firstly, he will proceed to actions for the Civil Aviation Service as provided for by the Law, in competitive procedures and, secondly, that he will not proceed to direct awards to individuals without a competition for the technological competence of air navigation in our country. With all the above that I have said, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that once again the Transport Ministry is being used as an election vehicle, in order for the bill that it tables to pass through the Rosfetological, microparticipatory arrangements. But just because the government is on the run, its life cycle is now on the run. Fortunately, in fact, Mr Kammenos said he was going with Mr Tsipras to the end. Only the end is too close! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniots. Please give the special speaker from the Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinidis the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the draft law, I have a duty to make a reference to what has been done just three days ago in this Chamber with the motions of censure that have been made. We have heard from a parliamentary spokesperson from the so-called 'democratic arch' - in or out of import, as you like - say that they are not the same as the Golden Dawn. Of course, we're not like their faces, because we're neither thieves nor traitors. And no quotes! Those who swing the finger have destroyed entire branches of professionals, since they once forced those who had the licensed taxi to pay crazy money to get a taxi license, and today they got to humiliate her. They once let the world import used cars of great cybism, which were not taxed and are currently punished. They even got to a point where the people who gave them allowances because they had three children, today not to be subsidized and punished. All these are the policies that have been pursued by previous speakers. None of these legislation is in favour of any professional sector. We have heard from the liberal, otherwise - New Democracy, to tell us that it supports the new business and that it wants to open up the professions, and that goes on to do so, wanting to dismantle drivers and taxi owners with unfair competition. This resulted in strong confrontation with their representatives, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Professional Owners Taxi and Markets. Indeed, Mr President and Minister, you remember that in the second committee I had commented on it and asked the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kafantaris, to inform the President of Parliament of what was heard by the representative. You know what he told us? He told us that they do not effectively control the guild - as the rapporteur of their new Republic called travellers - and that some professional branches were awakened and began to claim autonomy, namely their survival and a decent living and because it had a different view from New Democracy, some things were heard. As I denounced in committee, the President of the Parliament should take over in the debate on the articles, because here there seems to be a criminal organisation within the Greek Parliament, which threatens sectors of bodies, when they do not comply with their positions. I shall read you out of the Minutes, which I shall submit to the Secretariat, what Mr Liberopoulos said. He said: "What a point of view that is, those who tell them to think, that because we are a class that has been so warded since 2010, due to memorialities, that is why people are struggling to stay the memorandum as a political line and after August to decide on them and not on Greek politicians and MPs. This is their offer, as politicians." Here you pay attention: "And I'm not afraid of some..." here, not just photographing them, naming them and the Ethics Committee should be seized, "not even Chiefs of Officers of Anti-Population threaten me and to be clean, through Voridis, nor entrepreneurs, because I accused them of political friendships and to prove that they are cooperative friendships, after the latest events." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the New Democracy criminals who blackmail. With regard to the draft law, we have to point out that Article 3 and, in the case of I, Minister, where it refers to the obligations of customers in relation to wheelchairs, there should also be a provision on children's chairs, which passengers should be obliged to carry for children at least until the age of three. I will comment on the articles which, for the most part, have some objections and some points. In most articles from 1 to 22 we are positive. We shall be voting in favour of several of these. We shall vote on some of them. We shall refer to what we are opposed during the vote. Let's go to Article 4. Why, Minister, should there be additional steps of control in addition to the existing ones? Above all, why should they be proposed by the largest organisation? Ultimately, who exactly will this recommendation serve? Whether control is non-discriminatory and objectively acceptable? Let's go to article 7. And here we have some reservations about why the Minister will also entrust other bodies with the application of these provisions and what control body is more appropriate than what they are already talking about. Let's go to Article 8 and disciplinary sentences. Part of this decision to impose direct penalties without intervening the disciplinary board and the control procedure described above could only be accepted in the case of the original control bodies, as I mentioned before Article 4, and not the additions which can be set up by a ministerial decision because of the lack of competence and appropriateness. We have also commented on Article 11 in committee, which refers to the setting up of a monitoring and evaluation committee for public passenger cars. A decision of the Minister for Infrastructure shall set out a seven-member Advisory Committee on Control, for the purposes of assessing public passenger services. However, in order to create all of this, expenditure on the state budget is expected to be incurred, which, as usual, cannot be determined. At this point we must remind you - we had also made a reference to the committee - that there was a corresponding telephone number in 1019, where they were addressing complaints via SMS, but which had operated only six months, Minister, until May 2009. Since then, it hasn't been activated before. The relevant tender for the award of this project, for the operation of the complaint line opened in early November 2010 and cancelled only ten days after its operation due to a lack of funds, was cost of EUR 550,000. So what you have to pay attention is not only the cost of reopening this number, but the staff that will manage it and the determination of the timing of the complaint in question. We had made a point and had asked for this draft law to be included in this draft law. We are positive that a proposal from the Golden Dawn has been heard. It concerns Amendment No 1519 and number 16. We will be voting in favour of this because it was our proposal. We are pleased that the Minister has accepted it. About Article 15. Here the minimum permissible age for driving cars is reduced to twenty years from twenty-one and the condition of two-year experience is added. Why didn't you tell us why, Minister, this limit has been reduced and how this two-year experience will arise? Is there going to be some interpretative provision? How will this two-year experience prove? We are going to Article 22, which refers to the intercept of a project, which is to a large extent perpetrated by foreign taxis, Minister, Albanians, even from foreign buses, which present the known cabotage. Recently, we have even been informed of the interception of transport by two-cyclical drivers in Attica. Will your Ministry take care of these illegal taxi dishes of Albanians, which are mostly on top of northern Greece? In particular, you should have it in mind, Mr. Minister, just across from the railway station of Thessaloniki, the "Parko Karaiskakis", which the picturesque Mayor of Thessaloniki wants to baptise in a "Tirana Park" is the countryside of the Albanians. It may not have taken the name of Albania's capital, but the "experiments" Albanians, who are intercepting. With regard to Articles 23 to 27, which relate to the determination of categories of infringements for bicycle traffic regulation. In general, it concerns the incorporation of bicycles into the urban road network. These regulations are particularly important, but in Greece, we have left too much behind in this area and it is not on the one hand possible to promote the development of bicycle roads and, on the other, not to introduce the appropriate legislative framework so that there are no categories of infringement or appropriate labelling. Also, you will have to base the record of EL.AS. In general and in particular, where they rightly state that the fine imposed on the basis of Article 27 does not solve the problem, since, until the publication of the Ministerial Decision, there is no provision for the imposition of administrative fines. With regard to Article 46 here, we also have a memorandum from bodies - and I will read to you what they propose - which has been received by all the rapporteurs - speakers and I am surprised that no one has mentioned it. It's about the doubles. It's a note - protest, Minister. What are they telling us? That the preliminary draft law referred to ‘private passenger vehicles’ which are private cars. Then the term ‘passenger’ came out. This means that it includes all vehicles and two cycles. But no one bothered to inform the relevant parties. They were invited to the bodies and you considered it right to inform the Association of Representatives, in fact with three representatives, with three members and no one from the Association of Importers of Used Bicycles. Here people tell us what is going on in the other European countries and what they propose, in relation to what you want to go through. ‘The internal market should be based on transparent, simple and consistent rules providing legal certainty and clarity from which businesses and consumers can equally benefit. The assurances from the JETs are replaced by the latest KTEOs, which is both feasible. There is no need for any confirmation from the delegations, but even if necessary, the Department of Transport's department will take it at a cost of EUR 100.' Since there are several proposals which, for the time economy, I will also present a letter of protest in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall therefore proceed to Article 67. Here it is foreseen - and this has been heard by all the wings and has been condemned - that the President of the National Road Safety Council may be paid for remuneration. When this 2010 was set up - we also told the committees - there was no remuneration or compensation for the President. Of course, it is no coincidence that you put Mrs Chryssovelloni as President a few days ago. You obviously want to reward her richly. It should be noted that we have not been convinced by the Minister who said that this reward is necessary in order for this institution to function and not to be present once a year for 'atajoum', as you said, and also for photographs. Very interesting explanation and serious but also strong political reason! With regard to Amendment No 1511, we shall vote 'the present'. Here Article 10(1) of L.3897/2010 should apply to all professions, Minister - give a basis, it is very serious - because there is a problem, as we have mentioned in the committees, concerning the new spatial planning that was voted on in December 2015 and, unfortunately, only applies, in the first phase in central Macedonia, following a decision by the Regional Commissioner, Mr. Djijkosta. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, it will also have consequences for thousands of businesses. As an example, I mentioned my county, where it would involve at least five thousand businesses. But, in paragraph 1, Mr.3897, what does he say to us? ‘In this period it shall be prohibited to extend or relocate the plant to another location’. So it's inconsistent with the spatial planning that's been voted on. And here, if that is the case, Minister, you should include all the jobs and not just the workshops. That is, as long as this is the case, the relocation does not have to be done. We are going to go to the last amendment number 1525 and I am closing. It is also a positive amendment, because the corrections you have made are precisely what we have repeatedly pointed out to other committees and other draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much Mr. Shahinides. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. This is where fights have taken place, which, in our view, are misleading, are on individual issues. We would like to point out once again that, as long as this strategy of the bourgeoisie is implemented, all its parties, those who serve it, the greater the tone of voice, the hollow controversies, to hide their similarity. Really, is the bill contrary to market freedom, free movement of capital? Is it against the policy of the European Union, which you are pilgrimizing, this liberalisation and transport, and particularly atomic passenger transport? Does it not serve the goal of urban order to upgrade the country to a transit hub? Does it not serve the need to modernise and centralise individual passenger transport to serve the policy of quality tourism? Or is there protectionism in the provisions of the bill in favour of self-employed taxi drivers, in which you close your eyes, of course? None of this is there. Fights express business interests, do not touch the need of the people themselves for public transport in their service by safe, fast and cheap transportation. You do not touch the acute problems of the self-employed, who pay tax from the first euro, who pay the exact maintenance of their vehicle, the uniform fuel tax and all that all the other workers and the people face with the more than a thousand implementing laws, the three or four memorandums, as we have said, the third and fourth evaluations that come and, of course, all this development that has been made in health, education, welfare with the building up of these goods, which should be exclusively free and in line with the developments of science itself. Is the bill going against new technology, innovation, as was said? Oh, no. The draft law sets a regulatory framework for electronic or telephone mediation. However, this framework will be the area on which the concentration and centralisation of individual passenger transport together with the destruction of the self-employed will take place. The objective development, which is supported, is precisely the strengthening of the large business groups and, in particular, those who own the new technology, which is being exploited to increase their profitability. Self-employed persons in the transport sector, in conditions of liberalisation, will be increasingly dependent on monopolies which objectively accumulate the large mass of the transport project. They are working in conditions of endless working hours, with worse pay and either they remain self-employed, with what this means in terms of huge expenses, which we have already said, of maintenance even of the same vehicle, which will be on their backs, or as professional drivers. It is well known that a free market means strengthening monopolies, unfair competition, destroying small and, much more, self-employed. Any arrangements adopted at times or still remaining from the past cannot protect the self-employed. They can put their hopes in their struggle and, of course, not in the hollow confrontations of parties, capital or, much more, in their changes in their government or demagogy. We note that the final solution to their problems will come through the change, overall, of power and of the very form of organization of the economy, by state-owned means of public transport, of all kinds and taxis, with full guarantee of drivers, with a satisfactory wage, with human hours, seven hours, five hours, with free state services of education, health, with a public housing guarantee. This will also change the quality of life of the self-employed, which is what is being said today. The JRC is well known, and we communicate it with them, and does not support the existence of state monopolies along with private ones, as the Social Democracy is doing, which is now expressed by SYRIZA and earlier by PASOK. It supports, precisely, the socialisation of all the pooled means of transport, all the means of transport and, of course, the central planning, the realisation of all economic activities with labour, people's participation, with the aim of satisfying all the social needs that are growing. In the face of this development in the area of self-employed people, we call on the self-employed and from this step, the small owners, the drivers, the professionals who are either under contract with the "TAXIBEAT" or the "UBER", to coordinate their action, to fight for their rights. Because the opponent is common and they are capitalist businesses, monopolies and this need must be fought for all of them if they really want to survive and solve problems. As far as the second part of the amendment to the Road Traffic Code is concerned, we have also noted in the committees that too much of the strict rules for infringements so far, the penalties provided for, have not worked dissuasively for many accidents and accidents. We talked, at the same time, about the other pillar, which is not touched, which is the infrastructure, which is signalling, which is the road action, which is far behind what needs to be done, so that it can actually make a decisive contribution to road safety. We have no objection, as we have said in committees, to include bicycles in the Road Traffic Code, but we have also noted, and have noted, that the infrastructures are non-existent, that bicycles do not exist and that they do not have traffic in the bus zone. In addition, the modifications, fines, the introduction of income criteria with the possibility to triple the fine show the collectivity. The 50% reduction in fines, as was done with the legislative improvement that came up, does not change anything, because it simply replaced the previous adjustment of the 50% discount if the fine is paid in ten days. However, there is no provision in the COC to prevent accidents because of the fatigue of road transport workers since the intensification of work. The workers were told at the meeting about the issue of industrial relations, the working jungle, the endless hours of work, with the gun on the head. This whole situation therefore contributes to the creation of accidents and accidents. So this cannot go through here like this and we cannot take firm measures to ensure that workers work under other conditions, with safe driving and do not cause accidents. Article 31 concerns 'guinees'. We and the committee joined the request of the self-employed in the four-year-old vehicles. Even today, Minister, you said you would give a month of transition. But this will apply, which provides for a curfew ban on roads. This means that they will not be able to approach these roads despite the dirt roads. They say they're being destroyed by this arrangement. We believe that there are problems and need to be addressed. But they can also be dealt with in another way, in terms and rules that will also be in place with controls such as this, so that they actually pay the one who is to blame for the use of these vehicles. About the third part of the bill. We are opposed, Minister, by increasing the age limit for buses. The need today to make you want this setup to meet the needs of the OAS in Thessaloniki and provide for the traffic of buses the age limit of twenty years to go to twenty-three. No one can claim that this is for safe driving or for the safe movement of passengers. It is also set for used buses the age limit from 15 to eighteen. We are opposed to these regulations because the'shoes' on the road will have negative consequences for both passengers and other drivers as a whole. You set a age limit for school bus drivers at fifty-five. While at first you had a maximum age of sixty - five, you made a legislative improvement. It seems Mrs Ahtsoglu called and told you that you can't take it to sixty-five, but the limit will be sixty-seven. And at sixty-seven the other one will be on the wheel, professional, and will leave Athens to go to Germany, to international transport and to be the risk of death, because it is known that as long as one grows he cannot have the reflexes that a younger person has. You have him up to sixty-seven at the steering wheel or the unemployed, because no one will take him. In the fourth part we want to focus in particular on the privatisation of public KTEOs. There is a conversion of the public KTEO into a public limited company operating in accordance with the provisions of commercial and tax law, i.e. public KTEO will operate as undertakings. We have also asked the committees and are associated with the workers' request to withdraw this article. In the fifth part of the bill you refer to rail transport. Enter the training time of engineers to meet the needs of the market, of new licensed railway undertakings, as stated in the explanatory statement. However, the reduction in training time for drivers will have a negative effect on the fullness and quality of education. So as safer train traffic is possible. Our position is in the opposite direction for essential, modern, full education and retraining of engineers by an exclusive public body, which is currently the OSE. Education of a sufficient number of drivers, of course, to meet needs without privatising their training, as is the case today when drivers are working for up to nine hours in TRINOSE, Minister, and no measures have been taken here. We have also expressed our complete opposition to the EBRD. We believe that with this regulation you are driving faster steps towards privatising the OSE plant. We also believe that Article 82 should be withdrawn. It is in complete contrast with the Code for the Health and Safety of Workers, as determined by L.3850/2010. We don't know if you're going to bring some sort of legislative improvement or change of this article. However, through these regulations, you are today taking away the responsibilities of the doctor of work, this specialist scientist and amending the regulation so that he cannot indicate a change of job for the worker with a health problem at another job, which the other one will be harmful, but less. This article opens up the bourgeoisie of Haul, Minister, in all the private sector which is labour-intensive, with great consequences for the health and safety of workers if this is extended, which will be extended. It's not just about OSCE. It will be about the whole private sector. That is why we also call on you or amend it directly or withdraw it at the moment to bring about another arrangement. The fringes of the administration can't be thrown into the backs of the doctors. With Article 88 on the Civil Aviation Service, we say that the dividing-up of the Civil Aviation Service is complemented by the creation of the framework for the operation of the public-private partnerships in all areas of the Civil Aviation Service, which will be profitable to the private sector, and this is done by the creation of special-purpose companies. As far as the technical basis is concerned, which has been a great deal of talk about the direct delegation, we believe that if it were public in nature, it could create jobs, but it will be at the service of private companies, with what it will mean to workers in it as well. With regard to Article 92 on the management of natural disasters, we have also told the committees, Minister, that the crucial issue is the provision and planning of the necessary projects to prevent natural disasters. Of course, there is also this procedure for the rapid concentration of skilled workers in order to make the rapid execution of projects, but the prediction, the execution of the necessary works, anti-military, earthquakes, is the crucial issue, which remains outside the government's attention, and this has been confirmed in the past period. Finally, there are many amendments, but we would like to say something about the amendment and the Syros. This amendment does not come to address the deep-seated problems of workers in this shipyard by the company so far or by the new entrepreneur. Of all the publications, the new group appears to be the US company ‘ONEX’. This amendment is coming to facilitate the transfer, which, of course, according to all the publications again, seems to be coming to ensure the needs of NATO, which you bring to the Aegean Sea, as well as the American fleet, which perpetrates in order to implement more effectively the designs in the region, which pose great risks to the people. It is also not about guaranteeing workers' jobs with their rights, it is also about hostage, just as was the case with Scaramaga shipyard workers. Finally, we note that this system cannot satisfy the need for safe and cheap transport of the people, with the problems of workers in them solved. That is why the JRC has its overall proposal, and it communicates with the workers themselves and with the people. We are voting 'at present' in principle. In articles that have been opposed, we shall vote 'no' and for the others we shall be voting on in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. I would ask the Minister to take the floor for the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u131	Excuse me, for a minute, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u132	After the Minister has spoken, because we have a large number of amendments and still have amendments in the course of the debate, we would like the Minister to tell us which of at least the Members of Parliament are acceptable to us, so that we too have the time as Parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs to have an opinion on the amendments, not to wait for the last minute. Already, I have counted around the twenty amendments and parliamentary and ministerial, which have come and you understand that we will not have time to process them. I'd like to make a request, and I'm closed. Mr President - and I am addressing you in your institutional capacity - there have only been two amendments during the debate on the bill, that is to say they have been tabled at 12.20 p.m. In fact, one amendment is the Ministry of Digital Policy. It's a whole bill, I counted thirty rules. Please do not accept from the Bureau any amendments which are tabled late during a debate on the draft law. I'm saying this one more time. This is an institutional diversion. It's against the law. It is against Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and this must be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Kefaliannis. I didn't know. I'll be briefed and let you know. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to make a little intervention, not just legalists. I'll start with the intervention. Legislative experts will now be announced for the Members to know about the draft law. The amendments that have been tabled later, because they have also been presented by ministries. Mr. Gabroglou is here to present them and not just. This is the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, we will not discuss it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u135	That's not the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u136	So we have, and we're talking. First of all, I would like to say that we have seen in the positions so far - it is not surprising - a convergence once again of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and of the Democratic Independence. One spoke nineteen minutes of which fifteen did not concern the draft law. The second spoke for seventeen minutes, which also did not concern the draft law. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] We will respond to some of the non-legislative proposals, Mr President, because they all have limits. The first is about the credible criticism of both. Mr. Karamanlis said about the problems of the clipboard law, Law 4412, on public procurement. It is a law passed by the New Democracy and it is a harmonisation of a directive. It is amazing that the credibility that moves the New Democracy, but we also see on other issues the same distorting yellow perception and logic that are now trying to cross into the Greek society with the help of specific media. Let's see, let's say, Mr. Karamanlis will report to us about the motorways and their situation. Evidently, since they sold Olympiacos it does not use Athens-Thessaloniki, PATHE to see the differences, it only uses the private monopoly. Mr. Maniotis called us on the bike that was ready and made from Glyfada to Ghazi. Mr. Maniotis doesn't seem to use a bike from Glyfada to Gazi, because any cyclist and ask who makes this route, ID it in his mouth. Some of them became a little heavier attributes, such as inappropriate for the Prime Minister. Yiannis Maniatis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, because he was not invited to the opening of the energy project in the Cyclades and the resignation of Minister Stathakis was requested for the "Security Finance". I would like to say a few words here. We didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u137	But, Minister, this is not a matter for Mr Stathakis now. I would ask that we stay a little in the legislative, because we still have three rapporteurs, because we will have to open up the debate a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u138	'Cause otherwise we'll have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, thank you very much, but they should also be limited to their prototypes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u140	Let us not respond to Mr Stathakis, let us, please, on the legislative front, because we still have three rapporteurs and Mr Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u141	Let's move on. Before we move on, let me say something about the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u142	He's not entitled...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u143	I'm not right at all! Immortality, therefore, for me and for the works. And I would like to say that the citizens who are following you, Mr Karamanlis, are rather laughing at what you said about the European Court of Auditors' official report on PPP projects. And because you still want to change it and present it as you want, we'll testify to it in the Minutes. Just read a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u144	Now I'm sorry, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u145	Does it make any legislative improvements now? Are we going crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u146	To read, Mr Karamanlis, a few things from the European Court of Auditors' report on what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Spirtzi, you're making this a little easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u148	I know you're being disturbed by what I'm saying, but you can tell your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u149	I'll tell my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u150	They'll be filed in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u151	I'll see you around, you won't get away with it. You will not even distort the report of the European Court of Auditors, which is a trick to the governments of the New Democracy, to the conventions that you have initially made and to the conventions that you have revised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u152	Minister, let's move on a little, please. You are making it easier for both the Bureau and the colleagues and the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u153	And it is obviously not about the period of governance by SYRIZA. It's all yours. All 500 and 1,200 are all yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister, Legislative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u155	Mr. President, is that legal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u156	Well, Legislative, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u157	After five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u158	You're seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u159	But I was talking about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u160	Yes, that's right, for the draft law!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u161	Don't be late, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u162	Don't get upset. You said we were upset. Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u163	Seventeen minutes I spoke. You speak twice a year. You are misusing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u164	Please, Mr. Karamanlis. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u165	The legislative improvements we made yesterday in committee acceptable and we tabled them are from all sides and the parties know them. Today is about disciplinary measures in Article 5(2). It's about the taxi plates that are set within the draft law. Apart from the distance we have set as a specification, it is their placement and are doubled by fines to bodies and municipalities if they do not determine the positions. That is the acceptance of Members' suggestions. The income premium criteria for fines, taking into account the relevant observation of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, are laid down in legislation. For pigs, Mr Katsotis, we are giving a transitional month not to apply, but to prepare a rational framework, as we have said in committees with the Ministry of Tourism and with the Ministry of Local Government, along with open-ended tourist buses and pigs and trains, so that the local administration at last has the reason why they will be circulating and what is the permitted tax on every road for their circulation. In the case of used persons referred to in Article 46, legal improvements shall be made for confirmation of technical updates. For Rule 47 in the observatory - Mr Dannelis proposed it - we also include spare parts from third parties, not only from representatives. Article 56 - proposed by Mr Bukokouros - improves the condition that a principal occupation be carried out for non-particular farmers. In Article 79, too. And in Article 82 something both requested by Mr Katsotis and Mr Maniotis from another starting point and another direction. The institutional framework of the special doctors committee is therefore complemented. The establishment is only made by doctors in public hospitals. The second is that in the event of the presentation of a medical certificate by a private worker, the case may be referred to a public hospital for review. The committee has the same right. The third is that the decisions of the committee are justified. The fourth is that any medical certificate shall be forbidden to indicate the job and that the committee shall meet at least three members. Mr President, although we are caused by the various 'yellow' positions that are being taken, we still have another kind of attitude towards all the Members of Parliament. And what really contributes to rationalisation, transparency, good functioning and justice in the draft law of the Transport Ministry by Members is accepted and I give it to you so that everyone can take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u166	Mr Gavroglou has the floor for his amendment as soon as possible. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. An amendment is tabled which resolves a number of very urgent issues relating to the staff situation of teachers in the experimental and standard schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u168	What number is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u169	Excuse me, I don't have the number. He's not registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u170	The number is 1523 with a special 18.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u171	These people, while having their organic positions, by law of 2011, were abolished and their organic positions were abolished, but the possibility of relocation was abolished. So we now anticipate the possibility of transferring it immediately. And very soon after the bill to be discussed in the House on primary and secondary education support structures, we will table a bill on experimental schools, where all these problems are solved in the long term. That's what we're doing now. And I insist that we restore an injustice committed against those teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since we have previously participated in the "Research and talk about Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" programme organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the 1st General High School of Ilio. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, the reason for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u174	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, first of all, I should like to refer to the fact that under the Rules of Procedure the rapporteurs must end and then interventions must be made, either for amendments or for legislative improvements. I would therefore ask that the Rules of Procedure should not be circumvented - and I am not referring to you, Mr President, in general terms, to the Bureau - by the Ministers when they speak of the legislature. And they do so outside the Rules of Procedure, because all the rapporteurs must first finish. They take the floor and even speak of political issues. Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, one thing you should refer to. What ministerial amendments do you accept and commit that there will be no other ministerial amendment from now on. We come every hour and see a ministerial amendment. One thing we expected you to say and you didn't say it. All the other things you have referred to, which I will see you later on in our positions. And I would ask the Minister to say whether they are going to accept amendments which are coming today at the last minute. I'm not talking about the ones that came before me. Mr Gabroglou, in relation to your amendment, I would like to say that this is indeed an issue that needs to be resolved. We see that from this point of view. It should be resolved. They are the only ones in office who do not have an organic position. They have no right to transfer and secondment to the standards and experimental schools and so on. I want to ask you one question. Why should these provisions not be included in the next bill and we are now debating your amendment in fragmentary terms? Your rating bill is in consultation and is completed in the next few days. Why not discuss this with the rest of the next few days that the Ministry of Education bill will come so that we can also discuss the removal of injustices not only in this category, but also in other categories, and we are discussing this today in the transport bill along with trucks and taxis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u177	I think you have seen that we are not tabling amendments to other bills, because we are trying to pursue a normality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u178	Let's not open this whole thing now, if you want. I see that there is a mood for such a debate. We are inclined to table it because the deadline for transfers is now ending and because there is a risk, if we do not table it as an amendment, that these people should not be able to apply. That's why no one else is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u181	The Minister has the floor to answer Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u182	I have the impression that no further amendments will be tabled. We will inform you and soon after the positions of the Parliamentary representatives have been completed what are accepted by the Members of Parliament, who have tabled Members from all sides and from the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill which creates reliable transport control mechanisms and ensures equality and justice between the state, individuals and citizens. The changes made relate to a new legislative framework for the establishment, operation and operation of all transport brokering companies, arrangements for taxi and motor vehicles, new arrangements for the introduction of control mechanisms for imported vehicles, and in particular the arrangements for the new Road Traffic Code. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fundamental concern of the state to care and protect citizens moving on the road network of our country and with satisfaction as a member of the Special Permanent Committee of the House on Road Safety, I note several of the Committee's proposals to be supported, institutionalised and educated in the Road Traffic Code rather than typically collective. The state therefore creates the necessary framework, the institutions, the infrastructure that the citizen will respect and amend the Road Traffic Code and the penalty framework based on the above considerations. As far as fines are concerned, we note the attempt to mitigate fines for the Road Traffic Code, so that the citizens who are unable to respond, which is the position of EL.AS. However, attention should be paid to the consumption of alcohol, the violation of STOP and the red signal, participation in races or unorthodox passes will bring slender fines to the wrongdoers, as explicitly and correctly foreseen. Changes to imported used cars for which control mechanisms are introduced to combat illegal circuits are provided for. Strengthening the legal framework is necessary to protect healthy competition and to ensure the proper functioning of the market with rules for all and to impose penalties for infringements or false declarations on manufacturers or agents. By passing now on to public passenger transport regulations the strengthening of the framework for the protection of healthy competition and the proper functioning of the market in question is necessary as for the first time it will clarify the scope of the activities of foreign companies holding a right to transport without having to be based in Greece and without having a substantial and tax relationship with the place in which they provide the services. This legislative initiative states something important: a different approach to the public transport sector, as for the first time being treated as a development sector for public transport, and this is because some people started to influence through direct or indirect reductions in their orderly operation by changing market conditions. Rules are finally introduced for professional automobile operators and other activities such as urban transport via the Internet or through a telephone centre, which were not foreseen in this regard. There is provision for setting up a digital road transport register in which vehicles, drivers, employment relationships, etc. are recorded, when these checks are currently being carried out in the transport companies, a mixed scale of three services is required, without the necessary efficiency. In addition, companies providing an electronic or telephone intermediation service for passenger transport will require a license and specific model of cooperation with drivers, i.e. specifications, which should be met to avoid affecting the critical work of the transport. The draft law also provides for heavy fines, including, in cooperation with a brokering body and lacking a special driving licence, up to two years is required, while the private vehicle hirer, who is acting illegally, in cooperation with a brokering body, imposes an administrative fine amounting to EUR 5 000 per vehicle. In the event of a relapse, the amount shall be doubled. In the case of an intermediary without a licence, although a fine of EUR 50 000 is imposed and a two-year period is forbidden to establish and operate another brokering body. These arrangements are of great importance. However, the other provisions of the draft law also introduce important regulations. We also see the provision in the main or main road network of regional authorities, municipalities are obliged to set stop and parking - and take-off and boarding for the SAD taxi within eighteen months, which will improve urban traffic through the dismantling of public roads from illegal stations, and the relevant checks will be carried out on professionals in an orderly, quickly and safely manner. At the same time, changes in the bill include a reduction in a vehicle’s stopping time prior to the destruction of its registration plates, which is now set in eighteen months, rather than for two years. Equally important is the decision to develop an electronic system for monitoring and monitoring the JETs, as well as the possibility for public JETs to be able to adjust their prices for better competition with private individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks point out the importance of the incoming provisions, the attempt to modernise the control framework with new technologies and platforms that will support the citizen and ensure that public and private interests are balanced. Before I close, I should like to say a few words about the amendments I tabled. I am starting with the amendment on the abolition of L.3897/2010, as amended by Article 25 of L.4439/2016. The system referred to in the repealed subparagraphs ‘Interlock’ is an untested system which does not operate in any European country, as there is no legislation that imposes this on the European Union. This amendment proposes the replacement of the described mechanical device with the installation of a hydrocarbon detector in the area where the vapour recovery from the exhaust of the tanks is located, which adequately protects it, as it warns of the existence of hydrocarbon vapour and stops the power supply at the station. As regards the general number 1516 and specific number 14, I would like to say that the proposed addition clarifies what is meant by the term 'floor building on floors', so that there is a fair and reasonable application of the additional measures to be taken by these offices. This clarification is necessary, as otherwise it would be considered as stations on ground floors that just the office store is under construction even on a floor, while pumps, tanks and ventilations may be far from the building even ten meters away. Therefore, what needs to be taken into account is the station's characteristics, pumps, tanks, and not the shop - the office's sales room, which also operates as a minimarket. As regards the amendment with a general number of 1514 and a specific number of 12, which concerns workers at the ESS, I would like to say that the legal situation existing between 27 April 2012 and 1 January 2018, the date of return to the Greek State of 51% of the share capital, created ambiguousness and confusion over the applicable labour law, in particular with regard to fixed-term or work contracts, concluded between the ESS SA or its subsidiaries and employees during that period, with the result that the relevant law on public enterprises was applied with the restrictions laid down by d.164/2004 and Article 103 of the Constitution, instead of the ordinary labour law and the relevant regulations of d.81/2003. The current legislation seeks, on the one hand, to remove the ambiguity and confusion of the applicable labour law during the preceding period and, on the other, to remedy the error of the legislative framework and, on the other hand, to avoid depriving the company of experienced staff recruited under private law contracts and, on the other hand, obviously covers fixed and permanent needs, in accordance with the applicable legislation. Finally, with the general number 1517 and the specific number 15, it is proposed that a single state medical body should be provided with the guarantees of scientific training and an authentic judgement on drivers' health and that the issue be dealt with effectively, directly and without costly procedures. This will result in better management and exploitation of existing workforce and special committees, both savings of resources and the general upgrading of the transport project. The Independent Greeks clearly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Lazarides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and five teachers from the 11th High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House - I think it has been known to everyone - that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled. I ask for a moment's attention. The President-in-Office, Mr Voutsis, proposed to the Conference of Presidents at 19.00, if possible, that we have finished the speeches so that the roll-call vote can begin. With the list of speakers we have in our hands and the times as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, a simple calculation brings to an end the speakers, if all the time, seven minutes and the corresponding time of the Ministers, around 21.00, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u187	Just a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu. You're in a hurry there in Crete, a little bit. This means that we are escaping almost a couple of hours from the time agreed at the Conference of Presidents. I propose to the groups, if you want to reach a consensus, so that we can make it easier for the Bureau and the speakers, so that we can have the sitting as soon as possible and go to the roll-call vote. We're not taking a position. Contact, if you want something to happen earlier, and if we can do it sooner, either reduce the time or something else. We are at our disposal to announce it to the House. If we don't agree on something, we'll stay in the process as it is. Mr. Kegeroglu, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u188	The Conference of Presidents said that this is the thought, the proposal. In order to do this, the plenary decision must be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u189	That's why I mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u190	In fact, when we learn that the majority in the roll-call vote calls for it, while there is no need for it, and given that there is a 'fairness' today, we proposed that any roll-call vote should be taken on Monday or Tuesday, which this House is working on. So it's not a decision. It is something that will be taken from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u191	Don't get us wrong. It's a proposition. And we wait until the end of the day and the rapporteurs or speakers to find a solution. Mr. Georgiadis, I'm sorry about the delay. Mr Georgiadis, a special speaker from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Nineteen pages, seven pages, Minister. All right, let's narrow it down a little. A two-page legal improvement, draft law on draft law. Let us resolve them during the committees, let us be able to discuss them, rather than come here and over the debates, so that we can not even comment on them. I think that you, too, want to do this, but it is important that we all try to get out of this process, which is not just your own government. All governments do the same. Let us make a change at some point not to have this depreciation of Parliament's work, each time with amendments to amendments, whole drafts of law, within the essential debate that is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union of Centres is constantly concerned about the interests of all citizens. It makes no distinction between any citizen or taking part in a social group, in favour of an organised or unorganised interest. What we are interested in is that the country should go well as a whole and every citizen separately. In the last few days, we have once again watched a theater of irrationality in government practices. Successful and unrealistic conclusions, lack of knowledge and know-how, discriminatory attitudes on the part of Ministers and Members of Parliament. All of this led to the world attending meetings, once again to curse the way and functioning of modern politics in Greece. Today we are talking about issues that have been solved a long time ago, months, years, in all or most modern Western countries. Both the State's regulatory role and the flexibility in private investment are functioning smoothly, with a view to the development and economy of the country. In our own country, the opposite is true. On the one hand, we have the taxi drivers, who suffer by seeing their cut does not reach even for the elementary needs of their family, and on the other hand we have new profitable companies being treated by definition as offenders and criminals and being interrogated as bad guys by the sacred examination. Developments and, more generally, the Greek governments in recent years, and the current government, have failed to achieve something good for this country, both in the private sector and in the public sector. A combination of management failure and ideology destroys our society day by day more and more. First of all, we're sympathetic to cab drivers. The reduction in the income of citizens means that taxi is now considered a luxury. We know and see drivers waiting on the plates all nights to get a quarter of 10 and 20 euros. However, this phenomenon is not one of any electronic platforms, which even advertises the same services and helps to increase the taxi-payers' share. That's what we need to make it clear, we need to talk about it all. If the travellers' community embraces the new technologies, this will be to their own help and any electronic platform that operates as an intermediary between the taxi and the customer does not offer the same transport services, so there is nothing to fear of the whole community and the taxi driver industry. On the other hand, we cannot have any private company to be a monopoly. For example, tomorrow Mr. Liberopoulos may set up a similar ownership company of the Trade Union Automotives Attica. In fact, it may well use new technologies and overcome in popularity and in profits all existing electronic platforms. It does not prevent anyone from getting into healthy competition and setting up a profitable company. New technologies are not a monopoly for anyone, Mr Drandakis or any businessman. Of course, if any private company is found to be in breach of national or Community law, it must comply with and impose the penalties provided for. This is Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen, here's the fuck, which says the popular outrage. If 'Beat' and each 'Beat' are illegal, what are you waiting for? If a company unlawfuls, gentlemen of the Government, you send the competent audit authorities and impose penalties. What are we going to do about a show here in this House and to be exposed to you and all the members of the cohabitation as apprentices, ignoring how interbank systems and modern transnational tax legislation work? Is Mr. and Mr. Drandakis due to publish a document and not cut? Did he violate the capital controls? Is he escaping? Go after him. These are things that are prove to be throwing an eye with the modern means and tools you have in your hands. And I just entered GEMI and saw if there is a establishment in Greece of "TAXIBEAT". In fact, since 2011, there has been in Greece under the name "TAXIBEAT", in legal form E.P.A. I'm filing it out in the Minutes in case someone hasn't been in there to look for it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Whether it is illegal and how it is unlawful, you must explain to us whether it is working properly or not with the legal and institutional framework of our country. So let the experts of the competent audit authorities deal with and do not try to fish for customers in alpha or beta guild, turning the House into a bad lunch reality show. It is not a matter of the Minister's opinion whether alpha or beta are illegal or not. In practice, illegality and legality are judged to be evidenced by competent special and competent legal authorities. If you've seen any established violations, get them to see them. We want everything in the light. And all the other things, ladies and gentlemen, are just impression games for your client's audience. Also, on the occasion of this discussion, the issue of POS payment terminals in taxis came to the fore. Greece has not imposed these terminals, under European law, on taxis. The taxi industry claims that a number of car drivers owe public and banks, and that doesn't make me any impression at the point that you've reached the Greek society, which more than half of the citizens owe. So they rightly complain that they owe and cannot be harmonized and there are various obstacles from the banking institutions to agree to install the POS so that the taxi drivers also accept the plastic money. Such obstacles may be the refusal on the part of the bank, the incoming money seizures, because we understand that they cannot come out of the money market, collect from plastic money through the POS the money and not take it in their pocket, but confiscate them, so at home they can't go either bread. On the other hand, we believe that citizens should be treated equally. Equality is a basic advantage in a democracy. So when other private sector professionals are obliged to have POS, no one is entitled to be excluded from this rule. Others also owe others problems with banks and loans and public debts. However, there are too many solutions and they are simple. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] For example, taxi drivers on the black lists of banks or public authorities can acquire a POS and accept plastic money from brokering companies on the Greek market. I do not need to mention anything to be seen as advertising. Their money will just go to an electronic wallet and the owners will do whatever they want. And completely legal is and irresponsible will be money and banking systems will not be involved and facilitated by the citizens. The only difference is, for example, instead of the 1% that the bank can keep, here there is a supply of 2% and I am not accurate, I do not want to say exactly what it might be. However, the difference in assistance is very small in relation to the benefits that may exist. Where there is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, there is a solution. He wants there to be. To abolish new technologies and to fight any investment that comes into the country, either from ignorance or from a customer perception, is the worst thing we can do as a country. In this draft law, however, we also observe other matters that need attention. We see in Article 14, paragraph 5, the compulsory replacement of old taxi vehicles for another three years until the end of 2.020 without an asterisk. There could be very strict maintenance criteria. It can't just be true for everyone without any evaluation, because they might have a known one within a CTEO, they can get refreshed. I do not really understand your point of view in this regard. There is no sense of benefit to society as a whole, both the environment and the safety of passengers and pedestrians, which may be at risk. Instead of jeopardising all of this, you could find a way of favouring funding for these fleet renewal cases. In Article 31, we see that you ban pigs, and I refer to the four-cycle machinery, which has also been mentioned by the Minister. This is an impatient and lifeless move, in our view, which will have a particularly negative impact during the period of tourism. Article 40 provides for the creation of a tourist office by the OSCE and Article 44 of the corresponding right to set up a tourist office by the OSCE. Again opportunities for ruffles, ladies and gentlemen? So, again, you're looking for assignments and raising your client state? Do you want to play business people and boxers on the taxpayer's backs when you've made all the public corporations negligent? What does the state have to do with offering tourism services? Are you going to make public taverns, public hotels, public candy? To understand where you're going because of you we're waiting for everything. Also in Article 65, the limits of the seventy-four years of age for drivers every three years to a test and eighty to test every two years are too high, Minister, if we take into account the statistics, where we see an increased frequency of accidents and accidents involving drivers over fifty-five years of age. You say that a man older than twenty - five years, he will go every two years and not every year give tests. We are proposing, respectively, the sixty-seven years as a test obligation limit per two years and the seventy-five years as a limit for testing per year. There are, of course, the positive ones, and I must mention them. Article 16, which gives special attention to people with disabilities and Articles 23 to 27, regulating issues relating to facilitating the use of bicycles in urban transport. I wish, indeed, that we could make our country accessible to bicycle users. It takes bicycles too, of course, and it is not just the rules on means of transport, but this is another debate and we can discuss this in greater depth. Finally, Articles 29 and 30, which provide for sanctions for specific cases of anti-social behaviour, as well as the definition of seven miles of the minimum speed limit on highways and highways, finds us positive. Once again it is planned - and I will stress that, Minister - a very large number of ministerial decisions. It is seventy-nine, please, in total, if I have listed correctly, with the most likely result, of course, that the full implementation of the law will never be completed. Indeed, you want to bring back - I say this clearly again - in the mixed stages of control of compliance with the provisions of the law the participation of a trade unionist. That's what used to be. We find no reason to be involved in the controls of someone from the trade union, who has no business cutting fines. He may be confined to participation in disciplinary boards and may say his opinion. He can't go out and make observation no trade unionist, as is also not doing the audits, along with the policeman cutting calls from a trade union. These things can't be done. We think it's wrong what you're going to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Vice-President of the Parliament]] Mr President, I will end in about a minute. Thank you for your tolerance. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State shall be incomplete, as reference is made to twenty-two possible cost increases or losses of revenue as well as ten possible revenue increases, without recording the slightest attempt to quantify nor mentioning the way in which these extra costs are covered, as explicitly provided for in Article 75 of the Constitution. In conclusion, I have shown you, on the one hand, the enormous problems you are creating in society, on the other hand, the very least positive that you are going to bring with this draft law. We do not feel in any case that the current government is trying for the common good. On the contrary, at the moment with this draft law, he is trying to dissociate society into good and bad, victims and perpetrators. This bias in favour of one side or the other is the worst that our country can face at these critical times. It turns out once again that your inadequacy of governing justice and isopoliticalism and - I will tell you, as I always say it - the Central Association will always be against such practices, which demonstrately undermine the country and its citizens. For all the above reasons, we will vote'residents' in this bill. I don't want to abuse time any more. In detail on the amendments and the articles, our parliamentary representative will also be placed. Mr President, thank you once again for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u195	Here you go, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, has already been asked by the parties to place themselves on the proposal for a roll-call vote. In fact, we have received the opinion of the President, Mr Voutsi, that the procedure must be completed by 19.00. First of all, we note that it is first of all unprecedented that the government majority should demand a roll-call vote, since we are well aware of the fact that we are voting by the rapporteurs, so I think the government majority is assumed, unless there is any other internal problem that we do not know. But the substance of the proposal we would say: I agree with Mr Kegeroglu's proposal, that the vote should be taken on Monday and that we should have time today for the bill, because I read that we have thirty speakers. If everyone keeps up with their time, and the rapporteurs on secondary and parliamentary representatives, I think we will need more than five hours to complete the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u197	Recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u198	So what I'm saying to you is that we should normally complete the process today without pressure of time and come here on Monday for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Spyros Danellis, special speaker of the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a multi-project, which is about to regulate a large number of different order of order. First observation. In order to implement a law of ninety-three articles without incorporating into it, seventy-nine ministerial decisions are required. Of course, for several of the individual provisions, this can be understood and necessary. However, it is generally known that the need for extensive secondary legislation to implement a law usually means that it is not implemented either partially or in whole. So at least it would be useful if, in some of these cases, you set a timetable for adopting these decisions. The bill would thus be implemented in several cases, where it would probably remain unusable. My second general remark concerns the increase in bureaucracy, which in itself is a reason for difficulty in implementing the provisions. And third observation. A bill dealing with many different groups of stakeholders - whether workers or ministries or society - is primarily offered for the public consultation process, which, unfortunately, has not been completely missed here. Of course there has been consultation between us and the individual interested parties, but we have not had the comprehensive and comprehensive consultation and the overall view that would be useful, as is envisaged by the OpenGov, which for every reason we have an obligation to support. An anticipated public dialogue always helps in the right legalisation. Of course, it is right to assess on the part of many, for individual problems involving perhaps fewer, but open visa horizons are always useful. I begin with the necessary regulation for passenger transport services, UBER and TAXIBEAT, but also some smaller ones included in the bill. The debate on these two articles gave the tone to the functioning of the committees and, of course, as we have seen, these two articles also come for roll-call vote. We are dealing with a new product on the market. With the development of technology it is obvious that in the market and in each individual function and expression we will have changes. Fearful treatment, obviously, does not help and the defence of trenches, obviously, does not solve problems and does not regulate, as we have a duty to regulate. The new economy that comes before us - and not only does it come to the provision of services that we have in taxis, but more generally in the whole market - create new realities. We must, on the one hand, incorporate these new forms of economy into the real, regulated economy, and, of course, ensure safety and consumer rights for workers and, on the other, we must not drown it bureaucratically. That is where we disagree with the logic of approaching these issues. As I said just now, the regulation of an unreservedly structured market is necessary both for reasons of equality and for reasons of fiscal order and for the interests of the workers themselves and the safeguarding of their working rights against unfair competition. But for Article 12, Mr Minister, we believe that the creation and intensity of a specific vendetta, which seemed to exist between this company - tomorrow we may have other similar services - which also provides the Ministry with specific services, does not help to resolve a problem that, if we do not resolve it now, we will find it in front of us expanded and possibly deformed. We think that there is a ground for understanding that there may be problems and that we should even now, even tomorrow, make an effort on your part. It is for this reason that we have tabled an amendment from the Democratic Incorporation in relation to Article 12, which is completely different to the operating arrangements and the provision of the product sold by UBER than the 'TAXIBEAT'. Of course we need to ensure healthy competition conditions and we must not forget the framework within which we need to move European healthy competition rules, so that we do not have problems tomorrow in a legislative resolution which has issues in relation to its harmonisation with European legislation. Of course, we must not forget that the evaluation by users of services upgrades and helps improve the provision of services by the whole sector, because quality in the services provided and its daily improvement is necessary and ensures both the interests of the industry and the public benefit, public good. In relation to the operation of "TAXIBEAT" and the provision of the opportunity to pay the client with POS, since it is considered that the conditions are still not mature, we understand that. Exclusion of the taxi industry from the compulsory use of POS, as is done in the entire civilised world at least, would even help to address individual tax issues, which you are setting as the top priority and are the top priority. As far as UBER is concerned, we must be clear. The regulation of the issues that have so far created problems of unfair competition but also a loss of revenue from the state funds is correct and well in line with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, European legislation. In closing my reference to this issue, which ended up to be the major one, as we were concerned with the functioning of the committee, Minister, the general sense that all management of the matter leaves me, of course, with the result that the request for a roll-call vote, for something that is not necessary, requires me to repeat something that I have said in committee as well. The government and you personally have no need of Mr Liberopoulos' defending speech. This does not seem and I do not think that, because I imagine that the aesthetics of such a presence and public intervention and public speech should not be distinguished, that is why you should not have any aesthetics or substance. Because the competition between the sector and the problems between the industry should not be solved in this way, on the arena, but they should be regulated legally - that makes a favoured democracy - that is why we should have another approach to these individual issues. Now in relation to the main theme of this bill, which is the provisions of the Road Traffic Code, is a common procedure at about every session to bring improvements to the Road Traffic Code, because it is known that on the streets of Greece, a specific civil war is being carried out, a genocide is actually being carried out on the streets. Because, in fact, my region of Crete is one of the first areas in this blood tax in a modern Minotaur, I think we all understand that we will always be back on the relevant lists of the European Union and on the targets it sets for reducing the deadly traffic and we will constantly mourn victims. Of course, we must not lose sight of the fact that, apart from the major loss of the lives of our compatriots and our people and of the eternal pain that this leaves to everyone concerned who is unjustly lost in the streets, we are also dealing with a huge issue of financial damage to the public - above all - economy. I think we should agree that the most bright and enlightened Road Traffic Code, which we will probably draw up and establish, will not produce any positive results, whether it is flexible, whether it is declining or of a classic and social nature, or that it has any other sign, if there are no other two conditions. The first is education, education, the inspiration of another concept, another attitude that we need to inflame, especially in the young children, because our generations - unfortunately - are lost, because we have this concept of 'capitanilik', which from an area in an area, of course, grows, but this distinguishes us as our relationship with lawlessness, but also our elastic consciousness of compliance with the law. I think that in recent years steps have been taken. Train and police offer excellent services to the awareness and education of students. But that's not all. We want other kinds of approaches. The second condition, of course, is the effective policing, a policing as we have not gotten used to in any other sector and a whole in the country. I think that if we do not take effective steps in these two directions, no matter how much improvements we bring to the Road Traffic Code, the desired result is not approaching it. Unfortunately, I don't think there's any more healing. As far as Article 31 is concerned, I stressed to the committees that you deserve congratulations, Mr Minister, because it is a bold intervention, which none of the ministers previously mentioned, and the tourism ministers, who should also be the accelerants of such a regulation, did not touch, because the interests of the lobby of importers and traffickers of this product called 'pig' became a peculiar civil protection. I am speaking on my own experience, because as mayor for many years of an extremely sensitive tourist area and an extremely large and organised tourist area - one of Greece's largest tourist regions - the Municipality of Hersonissos, I have experienced the deadlock personally, in trying to organise and regulate a completely incompatible market. All that is being heard, in order to help entrepreneurs not to lose their income, in terms of at least the cost of purchasing machinery and all the rest, I think it is out of the question, because we do not, anyway, ban the movement of these machinery. We are simply very much organising the way in which they should be circulated, because the problems of road safety, as well as the nuisance and degradation that they create in tourist sites, are huge. We also heard the Mayor of Hersonissos in committee, which said that in one of the most favourite youth destinations that are Malia - and this product, in particular, refers to young people - in a two and a half thousand inhabitants' settlement we have two thousand declared pigs in this market. So you realise that because these entrepreneurs never wanted to get into a reasonable management, settlement and delimitation of their profession, because they never understood what the term 'bearing capacity' means and because they never saw their own product linked to the total tourist product provided by these regions, I think it is necessary to make this arrangement. It is right that you separate the machines up to 125 cubic centimeters from there and on two different settings. As I have said in committee, this regulation must be accompanied by penalties for the infringements of the regulations, otherwise it makes no sense if we do not have the sentence explicitly. Of course, the movement of large machines in the national network must be restricted, because it is extremely dangerous for the safety of drivers themselves, which lead them to have not even been trained in them and without a degree of qualification and others. I'll shorten the rest. As far as the provisions on buses and buses are concerned, we are opposed. We understand the particular nature of the OSH and its fleet, which must be maintained in life for a medium-term stage. But this is how we open the ferry for the maintenance of state-of-the-art buses for everyone else, because by means of isology, they will obviously seek to have the same treatment that the OSH will have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I also referred to the Committee on Innovation in the bill to add a Greek bureaucracy abroad. I am referring to the import of secondhands from abroad, where they are given the KTEO type-examinations and other attestations that may not be acquired abroad. It would be much simpler to provide for the examination of these vehicles by our KTEOs and the provision of the assurances from the KTEOs ours. The procedure whereby advisers should be recruited for the chairman of the Regulatory Authority outside the AACC, without a call for competition or criteria by joint decision of the President and the Minister responsible, we think that they are not in the right direction. The legislation that applies to anyone else should be maintained. I'll hang up if I don't have time. My colleagues will also be referring to other issues. I will close with what I mentioned as a major part of the bill, which is about road safety. Apart from the arrangements which some of them have improved, such as tightening the fines for major infringements, violations of the most dangerous offences, I think that what we have to do is to find ways to cultivate another conscience, and because the good intention and expression of the good aspects of humanity and human status are not enough, for that is why policing is necessary in no other area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, because Members have also raised the matter of the roll-call vote at a second sitting, I think it is rather brutal and tiring, to repeat another sitting. It's Thursday. There are several colleagues in Athens, even from the regions and the provinces. It's not Friday, to say we're holding people. I think with an economy in the process, an economy in the speech, we can end in a reasonable time today. We recommend ending today. There has been a long parliamentary debate in the committees. Politically and technically we've come to an end. The rapporteurs have been placed quite thoroughly. I think we're in a mature moment, finishing tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, on a point of order I would like to say something. If we want to achieve an economy of time so that today the debate, Mr Xydakis, can be concluded, some of the speakers, from the registered members of the SYRIZA, can be withdrawn. If that is possible, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u204	So, just from SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u205	There are few speakers from the other parties. But after SYRIZA's proposal is made, SYRIZA should also give the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u206	The invitation of the colleague shall be accepted. They are about fifteen members of the SYRIZA. A debate can be held and confused or become an economy of time differently. There are fifteen more of the opposition parties. A settlement may be made, respectively. But I think that on the majority side some Members can withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u207	Good. SYRIZA gives an example and the rest of Parliament's groups see it. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Mavraganis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by placing in the margin of the bill that is being put to the vote by the Ministry of Transport, in a report made by the rapporteur of the New Republic Mr Karamanlis on Law 4412/2016. If I remember correctly, Mr Karamanlis, you blamed us - and in general the government - that with this bad law, Law 4412/2016, which was our invention, we brought the disaster to public works. So I raised the Minutes of the House of Commons of 2 August 2016: ‘Article 1 The provisions of this Regulation are an adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of EU Directive 2014/24 and EU 2014/25....’. And I'm going back. See what the New Democracy voted on this law, of 4412/2016, which is "the destruction of Greece". I read you from the Minutes: "PRODUCTS (Anasios Kourakis): We proceed to vote at first. Does this House accept the bill at first instance? EFFECTS OF SYRINGE (SYRINGE): Acceptable. JOANNIS BROATIS: Acceptable, accepted’. If I'm not mistaken, it's from New Democracy! And I go to the articles, in the resolution that had been adopted at the time, and I read to you: "Anastasios Kourakis: We are entering the resolution of the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands? Received. JOANNIS BROATIS: Acceptable, accepted’. 'The House asks: Is Article 2 accepted as such? Received. JOANNIS BROATIS: Acceptable, accepted’. 'The House asks: Is Article 3 accepted as such? Received. JOANNIS BROATIS: Acceptable, accepted’. Don't get tired of me. This was the "destruction" of Greece voted by the New Democracy, with the choice of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks! Let's go to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a social, moral and technical necessity. Ethics because, first of all, we are trying to get through, creating a new code of conduct, passenger transport. We are trying to create or help create a new ethos climate between the passenger transporter and the transporter, of course, by creating a new blow to disciplinary provisions on the one hand, but also by trying to prevent and inspire a respect for what is being transported to his transporter and the transporter. It is not worthy of remarks, the provision concerning the particular reference and protection given to our inhibited fellow citizens, nor to those suffering from blindness, but also to those who effectively lay down moral behaviour in passenger vehicles. In the second part that, in fact, was a moral and legal requirement to intervene, we are intervening in the direction of rules in the mediation of passenger transport, passenger transport, taxi cars, and also EIHs, passenger IX cars. We are being indicted here that we are against technology, and we are actually confusing it. However, a more careful look is to convince everyone that what we are doing is to lay down rules of clarity, legitimacy and, in any case, honesty of administrative management and management of the wealth that is moving in goods transport, without one social group falling on the other social group and creating social automation phenomena, which had loved the former political regime so much. In particular, we put rules for the first time and say that the person who is in the passenger vehicle will pay - that is to say - his transporter. I have heard very much from representatives from New Democracy and the PASOK saying: 'We do not know how the cards work, because that' - it says - 'he has come through the hearing of the bodies', that is, the body concerned, the 'BEAT'. Yes, sir. They failed to notice that the 'BEAT' said, firstly, that it does not connect any contractual relationship with the passenger transported - one prisoner, hold this - and at the same time stated that money travels when a card is used abroad to an account connected with a particular bank and said: 'I work with it'. And he asks any average citizen: 'As soon as he has no contractual relationship with the passenger with any intermediary company' - not to mention names - 'cause when the passenger wants to pay by card, does he not pay the transporter and travels the money to the co-operate person, such as the "BEAT" himself said to the banking agency with whom he cooperates abroad?' Second question. Since there is no contractual relationship between the passenger and, on the other hand, the mediation body, why are these sponsorships being made and with what contractual relationship these sponsorships are made - we call them discounts, they are at least donations from the mediation body to the passenger - to make unfair competition and dumbing, in the terminology that New Democracy loves? In what sense didn't they answer the question if they made a donation claim for the donations they made to these passengers? I read Law 2961/2001 on donations. In Article 87 it reads: ‘Assigned head of public financial service for the receipt of declarations and a certificate of donation tax shall be that of the donor's residence and if he is abroad, the DWO abroad’. We do not know if the branch of Athens or abroad travelled that money. That's all for the future. Now I wonder why any company that wants to attempt - and well does - in the media field is being shaken by this piece of legislation that he just says? That you'll pay the price to the transporter and that if you're connected to a contractual relationship with the transporter, then you'll get the money from him or anyone else and you'll cut off the service report. Why create a problem? The other thing we're saying is, if you're interfering with prices either by donations, in an indirect way or by discounts in a direct way, then you're considered as a transporter. That is what the European Court of Justice's ruling actually says on the basis of 'UBER', but through all the mesh of mediation in the transport sector. I have heard someone - perhaps it was the PASOK rapporteur - who said that 'we are not concerned with this decision, about UBER' speaks'. Read the title. He had to go inside to see it. However, it is not just these issues. There are other issues that go through this piece of legislation here. There are the IX tourists. It is where the 'UBER' was going through with its action. What do they say there? He said, "You make it easier, you don't limit it." What do you think? Is that why they're protesting? That's the first. Two. Is it easy when we say there has to be a fixed parking area from which to start? Are they facilitated, when we say that there must be a digital record and platform in which in real time the stigma of the car will rise, the one who rented it, his destination and the minimum route and, of course, there will be a reasonable price? What do you say, make it easy? Or would it make it easier with the past landscape, which was, in fact, unregulated? We're making another serious innovation. In Article 19, there is an innovation, indeed, which will be followed - I am sure - by other initiatives of ministries, for the transfer of assets. It is a fact that many honest transporters, they were transporting cars on the grounds of sale, they were retaining ownership, because they obviously gave a deposit to those who bought it either from yards or from anywhere else - some of them - I say not everyone - and then they stopped paying and the car stayed in their hands. They used it, exploited it, resold it, etc. or in any case, they exploited it and remained outside the owner's hands, which had transferred it in good faith, because a sale contract was launched. We are doing a great deal of work here, and we say that with easy administrative procedures and not judicial involvement, it will come back, of course, after hearing the buyer, since the contractual relationship has been broken, in the hands of the former owner, because he is the one we must protect, the poor man who sold his vehicle. In KOK we move on to enrichment with informational and regulatory labels for bicycles, and I wondered whether I really heard the PASOK rapporteur, who said that a project has been completed and you can walk the streets of Athens from Glyfada to Glyfada, if I'm not mistaken. I don't know if he does it himself. I wish God would be with him if he does. We then regulate a really difficult field, which is the field of administrative, essentially, penalties. That is where we want to symbolize that for us the collection of money plays a minor role, and that is why in violations which are of particular social and moral decency, we completely eliminate any fines. We do, however, remove registration and, of course, the driving licence for sixty days and, if it is repeated for a hundred and twenty days, because that is what we want to symbolize that movement in this way - for example, without a helmet, without a belt, by parking on the ramps of our inhibited people - has a particular moral deceptiveness and it makes no sense there to impose any fines, but to understand the seriousness of the infringement by the one who is being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u209	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I would like two minutes to finish my thoughts. Then we make a cut, reducing fines for all. It has been heard here that, you know, you do not actually reduce, because anyway, within ten days, you have the possibility of paying the fine and, anyway, enjoying a 50% reduction. From this aristocratic perception that in ten days, everyone can pay this money in times of crisis, it escapes that those who, above all, must protect the administration of a state are those who are most in need and are those who did not pay within ten days. That is why we are saying that the same rules must apply to everyone. From there on, there is the possibility, in fact, of interconnecting with the income criteria, which, in essence, for the first category as it has legally improved, we are bringing the fines to the level that was previously, without the reductions that we are doing today. In conclusion, I shall refer to two Articles 31 and 46. In Article 31, there is, in fact, a first step towards regulating a regulator field. The fact is that four-wheel vehicles are special vehicles, as it is also true that despite their specificity and vacancy - as the Minister rightly pointed out - in the field of training and examination of drivers for them, we have, to this day, allowed them to be classified, sold and taken by businesses. Obviously this must be regulated in a more holistic way. That is why within this 30-day short deadline we also call on the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Interior, to do a good job and to regulate the issue. In Article 46 - and I am closing with that, Mr President, and I thank you very much for your tolerance - we are trying to resolve a question of fraud, which was done to our fellow people who wanted to buy - and they did well, human beings are a used car in times of crisis. How about this? Because they were victims of fraud involving a kilometre, we say that the person introducing it will bring with him a certificate of the history of technical checks. You say this is very difficult. What do you think? Have you tried to see even on a private site in France, Belgium and Germany that the history of technical checks by all European countries is being recorded? Second of all, what do we say? We say, as has legally improved, that if it makes a simple statement, an application in the digital register maintained by the Ministry of Transport, and this Ministry of Transport passes the application further to the appropriate distributor in Greece, at the cost of EUR 20 of the importer of the car, within 15 days, it is obliged that the distributor of Greece give him a certificate of the framework number, which is exactly what it takes. Thank you very much, Mr President. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the High School of Agios Konstantinos Agrinios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As you can see, we have one more reason to applaud. Welcome! Mr Alexandros Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, when are we going to decide on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u213	What time are we going to do the denomination? The majority say to do it today, because there are several reasons. Thessaloniki from Monday is a three-day development conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u214	Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u215	There's a counterproposal. I'll tell you after Mr. Triantafylides' speech. Please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about the savour, but it has been heard and it has to be answered, so that we know that we do not all have the same positions and perceptions. It was said by the spokesman of the Democratic Association, on the occasion of the opening of the underground interconnection, "a project that is not its own," he said, to then say "a project built by us" etc. To note something which is very clear that the work is neither yours nor ours nor Spirtzi's nor the next. The works belong to the Greek people, they belong to the Greek citizens. Those who paid them multiplely continue to pay for them with the memorials of your bankruptcy, from the wages cut off, from the cut-off pensions, to pay the 235 million CENP, the 200 million loan and unsavoury of the New Democracy, the 200 million loan and unsavoury of PASOK. Whatever stone you're up to, you find scandals, misery, remulsions, predators. They're scratching on the slut! It has already been mentioned by name in the amendment - an addition which I tabled with the agreement of Mr Spirtzi and I thank him very warmly for that. It's something that he also adopted when we discussed the draft law on OSH. Kostas Karamanlis told Spirtzi that "the Triantafyllidis has resigned you because he tabled the amendment - addition" - with the Minister's agreement - "to improve, strengthen and multiply the routes of the Greek Urban Transport Agency, which is in liquidation". It is the organization with 1.5 billion over the last seven years, where they have eaten, eaten, eaten and have not finished. I'll tell you specific numbers now. The addition only concerns the post-mortem routes which concern the world of work, which should be carried over after 12 o'clock at night, and which concern our own care for disabled people, who must be moved on special routes, to claim that their rights are fully guaranteed. That is what the amendment says - an addition which I have tabled and I think everyone will accept. I would just like to take a note of the Today - it's the irony of luck! - three more repaired OSH buses were delivered. Because we have kept ELVO alive, the Greek Vehicle Industry, to have an object, and every week they will be delivered to multiply the fleet. What fleet? You destroyed the fleet! The loss of working time reaches forty-one thousand days, which means 500 euros per day, which means that until today we have been talking about the day the 'August Crown', called OSH, began in close to 20 million. Administration under Stelios Pappa managed the two hundred forty-five buses to make it four hundred ten and the administration along with all the employees, the board of directors and all the employees in OSH succeeded and allowed free movement for the unemployed, deleted the fines. Because he who hasn't made redundant unemployed, doesn't know what it's like to get you off the road because you don't have to pay a ticket! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Not only that, but they also fine you and in front of people, make you ridiculous, ravenous, like a personality. They don't know that, because they don't move on OSH buses. They prefer 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT'. They prefer large wagons - what do they call them? - the luxurious birds, the ones talking about OSTH. And I'll be done. We received two hundred forty-five buses, and we've made them four hundred ten. Three, three of the state-owned ELVO that repairs them will be added every week. We kept her alive to keep the jobs alive. Now, listen to this amazing thing. They're the housewives, the housewives! Let us go, it's us on the Left. We have nothing to do with the right reason. They're the housewives on the right! The OSH reserve should be 38 million. Do you know what reserve he found in OSH? He found 614 euros, of which 38 million should be in the reserve. Do you know what the law applies to OSTH? On the basis of the law, since there are no 38 million, the shareholders should be able to pay the share capital. What shareholders are going to pay for it? That's why I call it "they ate, they ate, they ate, they didn't leave anything", because whatever stone you can lift, hate, remorse, grabbing, sucking! We raised a shipwreck of decades for Thessaloniki. Every September, fresh air! During the three years the Minister who sits there - and I have no reason to say, I have public and television abused ministers - Spirtzis is the one who did at the stop for about four years of metro in Thessaloniki, from a hundred employees to work two thousand, running a boulevard, and the joke called Thessaloniki metro is now a visible reality. They're finishing the civil engineering projects in 2018. In 2019, the testing of wagons enters the tracks and is delivered to the people of Thessaloniki in 2020. Again, it's not Spirtzi's metro, it's not SYRIZA MPs' metro. The metro belongs to the citizens of Thessaloniki who paid for it again and paid for it again. You know, when he stopped, he was in the backstage about whether he'd find them in the middles. The refinery section of OSTH, the first new local health units that are already operating in western Thessaloniki, the camps of Paul Mela and Kodra, will be fully accounted for by both the ministers and the Prime Minister at the three-day 26,27 and 28, which will take place at the 11th Development Conference. The Thermal Gulf Protection Agency is hereby established. The projects were accelerated at the airport ‘Macedonia’. I shall submit the two-page communication to the minutes. These are the guys who held the runway and troubled the world with "five plus five" takeoffs and go for "five plus fifteen" in the next time and at the end of the year it will be "too five plus twenty-five" the landings. Those who told Spirtzi, not to lose the summer season and the tourist season, and he managed to deliver the airway work three weeks earlier. How is it - the same minds, the same Greeks, the same companies - that, in one case, the works should be Arta's york and now end, these works that had the end? I put it in the Minutes, so that there is a memory, which must be somewhat more prosperous. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come now and wish to close, Mr President, since it was a nominal report, for just a minute in the taxi bill. The taxi bill is in the right direction and sets terms and rules to third parties who want to transfer. There are articles that correct pathogens of many years. For example, in Article 1(3), taxis may also transfer unaccompanied packages with similar documents. In Article 14(1), five-points may now carry a wheelchair in the multiformal cars of a volume. In the same article, in paragraph 5, there is an extension of the age of cars.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u218	Mr Triantafylides, completely peacefully the 'applicant' means ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u219	I shall conclude, Mr President, of course. Travellers have been asking for an extension for three years, which is also given retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u220	We said to speed up the roll-call vote. Isn't that what we said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u221	I'm finishing up, Mr. Barbara. I told you there was a personal report. In Article 13, terms and rules are laid down to those who would like to avoid tax with allegedly innovative UBER and ‘TAXIBEAT’ applications. Also in a positive direction is that the disciplinary boards are now being organized and framed with a more formal entity than the region, a lawyer and two representatives, and it might well be possible to object. We also agree with the tightening of fines, in case we have PETE people. I am closing my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u222	The shutdown is lasting, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u223	The place continues to need an enlightened right of the caramanlic school of the measure and moderation, of the right, responsible and consensual speech. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unfortunately, instead, there is an outrageous, intoleranceful, extreme right-wing New Democracy with sponsors of 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u226	You have the floor, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u227	And the fact that the previous colleague took about ten minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u228	It was an exception. I'm taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u229	It wasn't an exception. Instead of seven minutes he spoke about ten minutes and thirty seconds. That is more than 50% of the time. I return to the proposal we made as a New Democracy. This bill is neither urgent nor urgent. We can go to a roll-call vote, since the majority requested it next week. There's a counterproposal. If you cannot on Monday or Tuesday, because you have the development conference, we can go on Wednesday. We're reintroducing the proposal. We would like the Members to speak as long as they want, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and not to cut them off at some point at five or six minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u230	As long as they want, it's a little misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u231	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I say, Mr President. To speak seven minutes and not cut them off at six or five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u232	He's an abyss, the MP's soul, if you tell him he'll speak as much as he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u233	As long as it wants under the Rules of Procedure, that is to say seven minutes rather than cutting time to six or five minutes, something that will be done de facto.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u234	Recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, in any event Parliament will decide why a decision has not been taken at this time. Parliamentary representatives have been expressed, but there is no plenary decision. We have to decide. Will it be a roll-call vote today, or will it be next week? We're reintroducing the proposal. Can't we do it on Monday? Let's do it on Tuesday or Wednesday. There is neither urgency nor urgency in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u236	If the majority insists, it will be today. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u237	That's for the plenary to decide. At the moment, Parliament has not taken a decision. We have been placed, but we have to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u240	Proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u241	I have asked for the floor and the previous President told me that Mr Triantafylides should speak first and then I should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u242	Do you want to make your speech now or on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u243	I have asked for the floor to speak as a parliamentary representative, and I was asked by Mr Kammenos to speak by the first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u244	All right, you'll talk after the speaker. We said that two Members should speak and then the parliamentary representatives should speak. They'll change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u245	Now we've said it because to me a consensual was to speak to a Member and then me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u246	It is customary for some speakers to speak first and then the parliamentary representatives to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spirtz, earlier, in an intervention he referred to the public works for the period 2000-2014 with his well-known tone of criticism. I would like, first of all, to remind him that if I am not mistaken, between 2000-2014, he was a chosen child and a projected PASOK official, who is accused today, because he resurrected in January 2015 when he saw the systolic light. However, I would like to remind him of something else in relation to the projects and their resumption that with the Samaras Government the projects that had been stopped because of the major economic crisis have been reinitiated in an absolute agreement with the European Commission and with funding by the European Commission through the NRP, while in 2015 when the projects were stopped again because of the infamous Barofacie negotiation, the posting of payments of the public and capital control, the projects have been relaunched, when Mr Spirtz gave EUR 500 million to contractors for the health of Greek taxpayers, because all this money was paid from the Greek budget, by the Public Investment Programme. So it's better to silence the SYRIZA - ANEL government. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'm on my way to the bill. First of all, I want to say a good word about Mr. Spirtzi, so I don't blame him. I mean, Mr. Spirtzis with this bill has achieved a world record, which we must recognize. This world record is about the number of ministerial decisions and the joint ministerial decisions that have been adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u249	For you there's no better...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Theonas, when you speak, you will say what you want. From that point on, I have the courage of my opinion, I have my opinion, and I will not get permission from any Minister and from no SYRIZA MEP for what I will say! It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u251	We've known you before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u252	We have a parliamentary democracy, and you should all understand it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u253	Okay, democracy is not at risk, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Theonas, please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u254	From there on, I say again, a good word about Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Spirtzis gets a world record by this bill. What's the world record? Our rapporteur, Costas Karamanlis, mentioned this earlier. This bill includes an obligation of the Minister to issue fifty ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions. This thing has no precedent. I think we should all be proud of our government in relation to the practice of good lawmaking that follows. Second comment on the bill. Friends and friends, I would like to hear a response from the government about this: the new Road Traffic Code in strings and organs has come. The Scientific Council of the Parliament came out and says it's unconstitutional. Do we go through this without talking about it, as the song said, 'little crimes, little murders' and 'you're not bored'? Should anyone not answer and substantiate his opinion, why are the bill on which you celebrate, faced with the Scientific Council of Parliament, an independent body that speaks directly about unconstitutionality? Thirdly, I refer to the notorious issue of 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT', to highlight from this step the position of the New Democracy, which all Greek citizens and all travellers want to hear. For us there is another UBER and another TAXIBEAT. UBER is an undertaking operating in the grey zone which should be treated similar to that in most European countries. There is indeed the guide, which is the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. So the position of the New Democracy is crystal clear and cannot be distorted by anyone. However, because the government appears with a great deal of nerve in front of the House and considers itself defender of taxi drivers, I would like to remind you, which I myself have experienced and to remind the House here, and it concerns the regulation of cars with drivers, which passed the period 2012-2014 and a minimum lease of six hours was then introduced. Then, in fact, by both travellers and by SYRIZA as opposition this arrangement had been charged with making a contribution to the interception - those who criticized - of work by travellers. So wait for any of such government to move in the opposite direction and abolish the arrangement or increase the hours upwards. Well, I have here Law 4512/2018, who now spent January with your own votes. The six hours that were intercepted are three hours. They're falling further. 'Yours, secretaries and Pharisee hypocrites!'. That's what I want every cab driver to hear. Because there's the fat job and SYRIZA. There are some limits to the work of the Greek citizens. But I want to go further. You're coming - you're supposed to - adjust the 'TAXIBEAT'. What are you going to set up? You will regulate a company, which has been embraced by eight thousand taxi drivers - fifteen thousand are the taxi drivers of Athens - and which has been awarded internationally for what it has achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I call for the same treatment as Mr Triantafyllidis. I'll be done in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u255	Oh, well, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u256	Look, I had two minutes of vacation from Mr. Theonas. I do not think I am so dreadful and dreadful that the government will fall on this position. You're just being patient. We disagree, but I want to believe that you believe in the principles of parliamentary democracy. Listen, because I think some of you might not know what is regulated by this bill in relation to 'TAXIBEAT'. Who do you want to check? I have the bill in front of me, Article 12. You want to check some platforms that provide electronic services in the context of taxis. What do you think? That those who affect the price of the transport service must be checked immediately or indirectly by providing cost rebates or subsidies. So you're saying that if someone gives the normal honor, the normal, the law-provided one, we're fine, but if someone offers a better price, there's a problem. You from a "Don't Pay" movement have come to become a movement in favour of accuracy. That's what this is about. It is well known that this regulation benefits the consumer because it pays less, it benefits the taxier, because the whole fare is collected and the platform is simply charged with it. The back of the platform goes down. So what are you doing? I'm really wondering if you know what you're legislating. From there, what else do you legislate? Check also those who affect the critical aspects of the transport service by setting specifications that cars must meet beyond the law. So if the platform says you have to have a better cab, provide better services, not forbidden, we don't want it. We want the least services. This thing is surreal! And you have tabled a roll-call vote to self-determination by voting on it. That's it. So I appeal to your conscience. Get away from the terrains of the populism of Mr Spirtzi and even respect your personal course in your political space.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u257	Should we respect time, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u258	One last thing but very important. Read, ladies and gentlemen, Article 88 of SYRIZA and ANEL. It's about the Civil Aviation Service. There is a law on public procurement and public procurement. In this article 88 Mr. Spirtzis says that buildings or other facilities suitable for meeting the accommodation needs of the Civil Aviation Service are leased directly by the State, without a tender, by way of derogation from the provisions of Law 3130 and contracts are drawn up by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Will you vote for that, too? I want to see you vote and see how many frogs you'll still swallow to show you're a compact team. We shall see, when the votes take place, the attitude you will take and that, because the offender must also have a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u259	Now that parliamentary democracy has been saved, should we also apply the time rule? Mrs. Zaroulia from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u260	Before being placed in the draft law, because the situation has completely escaped lately, it would be nice to hear a few things. We are experiencing the extremely persuasiveness of all of the so-called 'constitutional arch' against the MPs of the third political power of the country, according to the latest election results of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. So let's see who's swinging our fingers. They are the atheists, those who want to change and have changed them, that is, the religious books, even though the Council of State has judged them as unconstitutional. But SYRIZA and ANELs are tangible, they don't care. They continue their destructive work. We see here, then, you who are adverting yourself as defenders of the Constitution, trample it once again without debate. The same goes for the books of history. There was a great gathering in Propylaea on March 4 from Orthodox Christian unions against the new Religiouss that you want to impose and the only party that attended and supported their request was Golden Dawn. We see the sacred temples of Orthodoxy desecrated and from the point of view of coexistence to be completely indifferent and of course your partners, the means of mass deception, not to say a word. Ahna, kich! But if other temples were desecrated, for example, no mosque, no mosque, or any synagogue, what would coexist? What we've all experienced. He'd be mobilizing immediately, looking for bad nazis, who have hate rhetoric, intolerance and racism, to arrest and punish them for example. And the interlocutory spoon would bounce from morning to night and be lamentable. Did anyone really hear anything about the desecration of the Sacred Resurrection Temple in Kalamata? For the Holy King's Temple in Exarchia? Or is it about the bombing of the Sacred Metropolitan Naples and Stavroupolis? Did anyone hear about Metropolis in Agios, where the "progressors" downloaded the Greek flag? No, of course not. For this reason, I submit for the record the relevant publications of the attacks. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here, of course, there is no question of racism and intolerance to be interested in arresting the sanctuaries. There is full coverage and impunity to the wicked of our country's sanctuary and loyal ones. We're also swinging the fingers by the stateless and the unscrupulous. They have the courage to teach us patriotism as well, while their mentors are Marx and Engels known half-Hellenic and fervent supporters of the Ottomans. At a time when two Greek soldiers are for twenty a day prisoners of the Turks, cohabitation remains calm. Oh, of course. They are not your children prisoners, to order them to be released, as you do, when they are arrested at some time by some police for damages of public property, attacks on police officers with molotovs, destruction of stores, bus arsons and cars of our compatriots. When we here in Parliament repeat Erdogan's words, you come out and patronize that we are preaching hate, racism and intolerance. But to yourself, you did not dare answer when he said that to our Thrace. You're blaming us and you're putting us sentences, while when you're among you, there's no chestnut runs, with a recent example of Christodoulopoulos, who fucking sent Athanasios, but unfortunately she caught the microphone in the leeks and then sold us madness from the top, when she was exposed, thinking that it's about plants and said, "I didn't say it." Let him, at least, ask for an apology. Let him say, I said it by mistake. But no. She, as a genuine communist, wanted to do the white one. You are: Liars, hypocrites and permanent perverts of truth. Even when you of the constitutional arch are editing against the country's third political force straight threats shouting: "Fascists, come hangers" or "From Perama to Keracini Fascist will not stay", these are fine letters. It's not an inducement to violence and hate rhetoric, it's a love rhetoric. We fully understand you. The truth hurts you and you can't stand it. That is why you do not come to answer the questions of the Golden Dawn. In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was here the other day and he was answering the parliamentary scrutiny of the other parties, and when he saw our Member, Mr Grego, he ran away like a boulder. We have taken this deeply anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic action into account in the'sensitive' - in many introductory forms - because we know how unrepentant Bolshevik is, and needless to say that we have never received and never will. Well, as long as the Greek people vote for the People's Association - Golden Dawn and we are in the headquarters of the Greek Parliament, we will unleash you, because we have sworn to serve the Constitution and the nation. You, really, who have circumvented the Constitution, who are you serving exactly? Because you certainly do not serve the Greek people, but you do not serve the interests of the Greek nation. And your democraticity begins and ends where Muslim MPs are affected and anything foreign toward our country's customs and customs. For as far as those elected by the Greek people are concerned, I do not see your democratic feeling catching you and respecting the fact that we are elected as well. Write to the oldest of your shoes the verdict of a respected percentage of Greeks. Shame and disgrace, hypocrites! Some sults from the parties of the constitutional arch that from SYRIZA go to PASOK and end up in the Potami, want to ban a party that is hosting parliamentaryism directly on the Golden Dawn. But it would be very interesting to present to the Greek people the statute of the Golden Dawn and the statute of the Communist Party of Greece, in order for everyone to understand who should not be in the Greek Parliament. I will table for the Minutes the statutes of the Communist Party of Greece with the points at issue. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Statute, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The 25th of March is near, and once again our children will suffer the brainwash of the faithful communists and the complete distortion of our history. For my part, I recommend the study of history, and why not the left-wing historians, like the history of Cordados, not to be accused of being a darknessist and doing propaganda. However, this is the case with a people, who sends to the benches of the Greek Parliament atheists, soldiers and stateless men. The Golden Dawn will insist, telling the truth to the Greek people. and if you think that we excel you, you have no idea what the Greek people say about you. Take a walk to a cafeteria, to listen with your own ears, to the opinion they have of you. As far as the bill is concerned, our speakers will be placed. But I have two very small comments to make. One is the reduction of buses, which I find perfectly normal, since your children, young people, anti-powered ones, whose dads have ministerial thorns, break them and burn them. How, then, can these buses not be reduced? I think that makes sense. The other concerns bicycles. I had asked a relevant question, and I was strange to get an answer. I had tabled the question in 2016. We have arrived in 2018 and the Kifisia - Ghazi section has not been completed. Because I use the bike, there is a typhoon bike in Kifisia, which is "for the festivities". The ladies with their baby wheelchairs are being pushed around, parked their cars, who have their homes, because it's just outside on the bike. I hope that you will do what you want to do in order to benefit the Greek people. But I have my reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We had revelations in Parliament today in different ways. Let me note that Mr Triantafylides said that in order to table amendments, he takes the Minister's permission and his suggestions and submits them. Of course I note the most important thing that SYRIZA is interested in creating an enlightened right, said under Mr Karamanlis, Karamanlis, I did not know exactly what he said. However, it has not analysed us any further, what this feasibility is and exactly what it means. Is SYRIZA preparing for any cooperation more formal or informal? Of course, this could be combined with the amendment brought by Mr Skourletis, who spoke to the thieves to say two things and got up and left! I am referring to the PPP amendment, which relates essentially to the management of waste in the Peloponnese. On July 30, 2013, the Peloponnese MPs will say them better - the contractor of the project is raised and there is a ceremony attended by Mr. Manatis, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr.Mitaris and others and applaud the performance of the contractor and the start of the project. On November 5, 2015, the "first time on the left" comes - the god will do it! - and overthrows the play. Where's the weird thing? The SYRIZA isn't weird. After all, he did this work in 2015. The strange thing is from New Democracy, which is in agreement with the regulation of SYRIZA, to overthrow the work, celebrate and denounce us who insisted on continuing the work on the basis of the specifications and the way it was launched. And, indeed, too many sites made complaints against our Members in the Peloponnese about their attitude. Today, Mr. Skourletis comes to the thieves to say: 'Children, unfortunately, on November 5, 2015, we made a huge mistake, a gave. Our party, political purposes - I don't know what else - led us to a blind decision." And without a trace of self-criticism it comes back and returns the matter. It restores it in 2018. Let's see today, if New Democracy is to vote for the reinstatement of what they dismantled with SYRIZA in 2015, because we said that from SYRIZA to the front, the assholes, the cysts and everything else we're used to. Is New Democracy following? Is Mr. Triantafylides involved in placing this? He wants them to be more serious, closer to them as enlightened now? Well, we've seen each other. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill is coming, which includes various arrangements. It's not a bill of principle. So any position in principle makes no sense, because it does not have a principle you vote on, which you agree with or do not agree with. It's normal. It has provisions which are necessary in many cases to regulate matters. It has client-type arrangements and other related arrangements. It also has regulations, which come to deal with - according to the government - the issues relating to passenger transport. Hear in general with our own clear position. We with 'TAXIPHONE', 'TAXIBEAT' and the others are not only in favour, but we believe that innovative solutions should be promoted. It is also in favour of taxi owners and drivers and consumers. In arrangements that open the bottle to pirates, project intercepts and illegality, such as opening the bottle at the "UBER" with its legalisation, we are probably completely opposed. I come here and say in particular, because we had dealt with this much earlier than the government today. On July 17, 2016, almost two years ago, I put a question to the Ministry of Infrastructure, in which I say that because there is a situation out of control of passenger transport, measures need to be taken with specific decisions to deal with both interception and piracy and illegality. In particular, I proposed that the creation of an electronic base for car hired after drivers, in order to be able to control and this should be linked to the ‘taxisnet’ of the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, I suggested that we should be able to control legal leases in real time, and also - I move faster - the drivers of these vehicles, because they carry passengers with public service coverage, with public coverage, should have at least the qualifications of taxi drivers, the special licence. There's nothing like that, of course. I also suggested an obligation to place an electronic digital tachograph. Things are simple. If there is no digital tachograph, no check shall be made. As far as leasing time is concerned - and I come to what was said before - we had voted twelve hours of rental and forgot to say so to Mr Hatzidakis. Mrs. Kefaliannis comes over one night and she does it six hours. And SYRIZA comes as the "first time left" to do it three hours. It comes today to legalise 'UBER' through it, without laying down minimum rental conditions and the conditions that I mentioned earlier, which Mrs Chryssovelloni considered to be positive, but now they are not bringing them. Of course, he said that "they are positive but I do not go any further, because they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism". I have the written answer here. I will submit the answers to the Minutes to show the contradictions of the government. So, by summarising, we say that we are clear about this. We have tabled an amendment. I think the Minister should accept it because it is very clear. We want the best price set by the taxi owner law, the best service and no charge for the consumer. This must be achieved and, of course, in the illegality of the road. Two things and I'm closing. Passenger owners, taxis, should be able first of all to travel to the tourist areas - I am not interested in Athens or other centres, but in the most important tourist areas - to replace vehicles with five - seven seats with a taxi, not to be a taxi-payer. To replace taxi with five to seven seats with a taxi. The needs of tourism are different from once. We should therefore have this flexibility. I've been told he refuses the Ministry to do it. To start with the island regions, which have a strong problem in the summer, Crete and other areas, where I think the Minister has the stimuli for all of this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. If I'm not mistaken, taximeters don't enter the vehicles five to seven seats, because they're for fine trips and they can't take leases in smaller races. It's on predetermined routes. In any case, there are so many ambiguities in many respects, although it has regulations and forecasts. Where should we support them? We could support them if they did not have these ambiguities in terms of implementation and time frames. A more clear and more stringent limit to the operation of the UBER-type companies and the 'TAXIBEAT' should be laid down above. UBER is a different case because we have seen abroad how it works. Now in mathematics with the "TAXIBEAT" that comes cheaper, because the taxi driver gets the whole fare and the discount gets the platform, no: The extra charge is charged by the consumer. I can't understand it. I also cannot understand what the New Democracy says that every new one is necessary and innovative, it is necessary and good. The new era, for example, stipulates that the first company in taxi services should be the ‘UBER’ without having a single vehicle. It also stipulates that Airbnb be the world's first in hotel services without having any real estate. You see what happened with the issue of the personal data of a well-known social media and their use in the elections of the United States of America. Is that where it's bad? Is this a good one? Where does it interest us? In any case, any new technology, as free and innovative as you say, has from behind managers, whose only concern is the overprofit. There are, of course, proposals that you must take into account. The minimum time between leases, the minimum charges, especially for UBER, should be set, the same measures and weights for the taxation of the two companies, not seated in tax havens, so that there are no black receipts and fares from the drivers of UBER, where there is a huge ambiguity. Take a framework to lay down legislation. But with the evolution that we have seen this company get in other countries and the European Union and globally, we see that it cannot be so easily reduced. He wants a continuous check. In other words, the taxi driver should be given an opportunity to compete with these companies on an equal footing. Here, of course, we also come to the real problem of the taxi industry and of course all other sectors in Greece. It doesn't matter what you legislate about the taxi industry. The problem is that taxis have no business, just like other branches. They don't have a job, they don't have any receipts. It doesn't matter whether you legislate and anything else. There's no money for the Greeks to use the taxi. There are many times discussions about the flag price and the charges. Here the Greeks have no money to buy a bus ticket for urban transport and is forced to ride on the bus, to go to work or wherever it needs to be, without a ticket. All branches, which are obliged to show their receipts, are taxed. Taxis are also targeted by travellers. When you cut 10 euros in a tariff, 8 euros have already gone to third parties and are invited to survive, you can understand that when the unfair competition from UBER is coming, it ends them. Of course, all of the above reports fully explain why the SYRIZA and ANEL MPs did not fill up the list of speakers to talk about this bill, which protects and is very good. All the protection and care you make that it is contained in this bill, of course, within the limit of the memorandum, within the commitments imposed on us by the euro, within the European Union's vengeance for Greek entrepreneurs, as well as for farmers and workers. All this, of course, you know and not by mistake, because to vote for a memorial, all the SYRIZA and ANEL antagonisms - most of you, not to say all of you - took some legislative exchanges within this three-year period. Of course, the only thing that New Democracy puts forward as Opposition to this draft law is that the SYRIZA and ANLL Government serves the interests of small guilds, while it itself defends the interests of large multinationals. As regards the Road Traffic Code, fines are increased, the same logic as fines are introduced by the Ministry of the Environment that ‘the polluter pays’. So anyone who has more money and wants to work more quickly or because he wants to go to have fun and has no problem with it, has money and pays, because he has no difference to pay 1,000 euros. One who has the money to pay, won't get stuck there. It is not the same, of course, for all infringements or, of course, for all penalties to be imposed. Have you met a kid who never met his father because a drunk driver killed him when he was a kid? Have you met a paraplegic who's like this from an accident and is young and will never be able to work or make a family? That is why as Golden Dawn we propose some violations of the Road Traffic Code - such as the violation of the red signal - to be a felony. You know when you pass "red" that you might kill someone. There is no excuse'see and no one came'. We do not judge the red lights, STOPs or the priorities at hand. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs should be persecuted as a felony. We're not saying people don't drink and don't have to party. Let's do it. But when he does, don't drive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need two more minutes, Mr. President. I'd like your tolerance. There should be urgent theory and practice courses immediately. He's gonna have to get into a theory and act from primary school. Kids drive bikes without knowing basic road traffic rules. To get into our DNA from young ages that, for example, when you see an orange light, you don't press gas to make it through, but you're pressing a brake to stop. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of course, we also carry responsibility when we drive and have children in the car and see the way we drive. The rigour of our proposals is due to the massacre on the Greek road network, an informal civil war mitigating to the national network and the consequences of its losses to Greek society, I am not saying about the economy, I say about society. The issue with diesel engines, Minister, is to know that it will explode very soon. People went and bought diesel cars and with the new bans, they won't know what to do with them. For the subway of Thessaloniki, we didn't hear anything at first. Then, thankfully, a congressman said something. Is that enough for the needs of Thessaloniki's urban fabric? This was done to be completed in 2005 and 2006, not to be completed in 2025. Now I do not have time to deal with the other issues that I wanted for Phil and unconstitutionality. In any case, there is a joint decision from the Holy Synod and from the Archbishop for this year to work. The Holy Synod should be changed next year. In conclusion, I would like to say that, as much as it frightens you, all the memorial parties, the national unity of the Greeks, which has recently appeared at the big rallys, as much as you fill in "explosive" football balls, nothing will succeed. The Greek people are united on a common front against anti-national manipulations, in commemorative parties. The Greek people, defending their national identity, day after day sees and understands that the only one expressing this simple patriotic thought, is the Greek patriots of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. I say we keep the time if possible down, because we have a roll-call vote, which will take place around 19.00 p.m. Okay? I make this appeal to be within the limits. Okay? We agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u266	That's very ambitious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u267	We said about 19.00 votes electronically. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I will now give you more time, because I will not make use of the twelfth. I'll only talk to you about cabs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u269	How much time do I put in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u270	Give me eight, which is the mark of infinity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u271	The rest of Mr. Amyras' time, I want him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u272	My location will be about cabs and bicycles. I'll start with the easiest and most pleasant bikes. I have watched the development of the cycling movement in Greece and especially in Athens from his genocide over the past twenty years. I'm one of the few who made a bike in Athens. That's why most old cyclists, like that, know each other. Because if you were in the Constitution and you were seeing another cyclist at the University coming down to Omonia, you were running to meet him and exchange experiences, like how he gets on the road, what are the safe routes. This slowly began to dilute, because cyclists became too much. How have many cyclists become, especially in Athens? Two basic steps. The first was the introduction of the bike to the subway. It was forbidden to take your bike and get in the subway, in the last wagon. We then impacted two ministers, Minister Dimitris Reppa and Spyros Vouya. Both were open-minded and really accepted, with a self-regulation of cyclists and in a proper way not to bother passengers pedestrians on the subway. And here's the subway and the electric now in a nice, reasoned way also serves cyclists. The second important step was when cyclists were allowed to enter the buses. I had gone back when Mr Vorides was Minister to that small government of four months and I had raised the matter with him. And he signed the ministerial decision. And so safely we could, given that we now had the legal right to move on the buses. I mean, with the safety of not writing us or, in any case, not talking to us badly. Today, some years later, almost a decade after the boom of cycling in the big cities, let's go see this. A lot of small towns, even villages of the type Steni Evia or Amalada towns, have a good network of bicycle roads. That was thanks to the money from Europe and the Green Fund. There have also been some failures that you've seen, I know, not to connect the bike networks, so you had to stop, run avenues and a thousand two, but in any case, a first job was done. That's important. One would expect the next step to be - finally - to see cyclists in Athens. Only one in fact exists from Gazi to Faliro, the southern part of the large cycling road Kifisia - Faliro. In fact, I'm going to tell you this, I'm speaking experientially. In 2016, Mr. Maniotis of PASOK, so I met him, he called me and said, "Let's go on a bike to show you the southern part." And we went and did with Mr. Maniattan a bike, who is a very good biker, and I peace myself in this side of the way, it bears.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u273	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u274	I wish I could see you guys climb a bike too. First of all, you're gonna get more fit, and your psychology will be improved. So don't iron the bikers! Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u275	The bike you discovered a lot after us in Trikala!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u276	But why can't we even argue on the bike?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u277	We don't disagree, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u278	Oh, good! Let's go down. There are no bike roads in Athens. Of course the provision of Article 27 and of the other articles of this bill for vertical and horizontal labelling on bicycles and light-signalling, but on what bicycles? And that is why I ask the Ministry's leadership to tell me what is going to happen with the northern part of this great bike road, that is, from Kifisia to Ghazi. The money was secured through the ESRB, known, sixteen and a half kilometers, 9,000,000 euros. Environmental studies have been authorised for three years. What have you done to implement this project? It will be a major project. And it is said by the National Technical University, scientists from the Sustainable Mobility Unit, that it is not only that it will have a security for those who move, but it will also encourage many new bike users to ride on the bike and move in this way, because they will feel a greater security. All of this may not be of great importance if I tell you that the OAS cycling runway remains closed for athletes due to a lack of funding from the Ministry of Sports of the Cycling Federation for 2017. And I wonder what Christos and Zafiris Volikakis will think, world champions, pan-Hellenics, with participation in Olympics, exceptional children, when they go to the cycling street and the Federation tells them: "Unfortunately, it is closed for you." On April 20, now in less than a month, there will be the Panhellenic Cycling Championship, which is scheduled to take place in the OAS. With a closed bicycle runway? So look at it. I'm telling you this to understand that there is a distance between theory and the act. It's a good thing we're converging these things. I now come to taxi issues. First of all, let us say that the new COK regulations also exclude taxis from the obligation to wear seat belts. We're the only country in the world that allows professional drivers not to wear a seat belt. What else can we say? What can I say about KOK? What can I say? Does the cab driver have an airbag embedded inside and will he be saved? Passengers carrying? What are we talking about? Well, the ministerial decision, I am simply tabling it in the Minutes, because many fellow Members will not know it, is the 43917 of 2006 who wants to see it. And let us all make an effort together to impose on professional drivers too - not only are the taxi drivers, they are distributors, they are also truckers who make many stops - not to be exempt from the safety belt requirement. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now I come to the well-known issue of 'TAXIBEAT' and 'UBER'. Other: ‘TAXIBEAT’, ‘BEAT’ and ‘UBER’. We have tabled an amendment to unblock this issue. And I will ask all of you, my dear colleagues, MPs and MPs: How would you choose to send your children unaccompanied from home to a tutor, say? Going out on the street and finding a taxi, with a cab driver you don't know, and you don't know what the route will be and you won't be able to check it on your cell phone? Or send your children unaccompanied with a taxi driver whose name you will know and the route you will see on line and you will know at any time and at any time where your kids are with the taxi? This, I think, shows what the difference in the conception of traditional transport is, with the most modern which TAXIBEAT has facilitated. ‘TAXIBEAT’ is not a transport company. It is a company that (a) assesses drivers, (b) drivers are assessed by customers and (c) drivers also assess customers. All transactions are made with plastic money and therefore there is no question of tax evasion. There is also a security to the tourist. Do you remember that incident at Larissa station, which was also a photo taken by the newspapers, with a Japanese guy who had a cab driver in the trunk? Even now we hear about the cases of travellers who, when they get from the airport of tourists, charge them double, triple and super-double. These are all finished with this online customer interface platform with the driver or taxi owner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President, please. TAXIBEAT systems and platforms are also mainly embraced by travellers. It is no coincidence that of the fifteen thousand taxis of Athens, half the people, the eight thousand, are enclosed with the "TAXIBEAT". Whatever the cab driver I have entered, whether he works with "TAXIBEAT" or not, everyone tells me that "we like this system, because we have a great deal of confidence in our work, and furthermore we start and upgrade as professionals of the industry. We keep the taxis clean, we are noble and we are also motivated by the company to learn a foreign language or at any rate to be able to communicate with tourists." So the amendment we have tabled to you I would tell you that it has weight and you need to see it. What's her essence? It is what is recognised, of course, by anyone who is unprecedented. In other words, ‘Taxi Beat’ does not provide a transport service, but a mediation service and falls within the ‘information society’ cycle. As defined by European Directive 31/2000 and Article 3, to the service normally provided on a fee, by electronic means at a distance and by the personal choice of a recipient, Member States may not restrict this freedom to provide the ‘information society’ service. Therefore, Article 12 as a whole, if our amendment is not accepted, you should know that it is contrary to European law. And we're going to UBER. There is no need for much thought on 'UBER'. The UBER is moving in black spaces. It's moving not just in grey, but in a black belt, I'll tell you what. Because we have the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, issued exclusively for the ‘UBER’, and there it says that ‘UBER’ creates a new market, is compatible with non-professional drivers, determines the cost of the transport service’. This is what UBER does. In other words, 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT'. So I tell you with good intentions, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that you will answer the question 'how would you choose to send your children to an unaccompanied destination?' With "TAXIBEAT" and a driver you know him at all times and at all times you can know where he is or with a taxi driver or owner, who can be fine - I'm not saying - but you don't have any control, you don't know who's taking your kids, don't you know where the cab goes at all times and at all times? That is what I have to say to you, and I hope you will reconsider the issue of the enhancement of cycling culture with practical works, such as completing the large Kifisia-Gazi bike road, but only with theoretical provisions, which says that a light signal should be entered on a bicycle road, but there is no bicycle road. What am I supposed to do with the light signal if I don't have a bike road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Constantine Agrinio, the second department. The Agrinio today has its honor. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. We are tabling an amendment, which concerns the functioning of the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. I think it is an amendment that supports it administratively in terms of its own self-sufficiency and, of course, financially. I think it will help us as a political system not to witness phenomena that we have seen in the last few years, whether phenomena of absolute depreciation of an independent authority, where members resigned and apparently ended up in situations where there was no legal composition, or phenomena where, unfortunately, the parties were stranded from the night until the morning and the mantle of an independent authority, and with very specific and increased responsibilities. So I think that, with our amendment, they are also being closed down as possible. In particular, the nature of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee is clarified and strengthened as an independent administrative and regulatory authority with the relevant administrative and financial autonomy. Incompatibilities shall be made and there shall be grounds for deduction for members of the Committee who carry out any paid or unpaid public function or activity. It shall also be prohibited to undertake any work or work of any form incompatible with the status and tasks of the EMCDDA. In other words, a legal person cannot be in the independent authority and at the same time provide legal advice to the free market for telecommunications law matters. As I think - each of us understands - this is a clear conflict of interest which is well regulated. Of course, the phenomenon is also regulated, the affront to politics, the 'turning doors', where people left the independent authorities and the next day they were hired to private companies to offer services to the same industry, which they were supposed to have had the responsibility to regulate until last night. The five-year limit is therefore set as a forbidden time limit for their private sector employment in a service of course linked to the market, with the sector that they were called upon to regulate when they were members of the independent authority. If there is a misconduct, there will be a fine equal to ten times the total remuneration and allowances received as members of the committee. There are some other provisions which simply need to be introduced, because the responsibility of the National Telecommunications Commission has been transferred and the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Digital Policy, which the Ministry of Infrastructure happens to be now the fast-track Ministry for the bill that Parliament is discussing. There is also a regulation concerning the shareholder composition of the NET, i.e. the company owned by the ERT network. He is the only shareholder in the Ministry of Finance. Because the Ministry of Digital Policy is also a regulator on the television network, it cannot be owned and regulated. I think this is a package of regulations, which came from a debate with the services of the committee. It is a package that strengthens the role of the National Telecommunications Commission and will also enable it to make interventions to protect the Greek consumer, its interests and the public interest in general. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Spartinus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the discussion of this draft law at the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade and the hearing of the bodies that we had shown some very interesting political issues. The first thing that a credible observer could note is the long distance between positions and proposals from the parties themselves, particularly from New Democracy, on the same issues, but on different committees. While in the Committee on Road Safety, in which I am also involved, which is certainly not a legal basis, the positions of all its members are unanimous or almost unanimous, in the Committee on Production and Trade on the same issues we have high opposition, denouncing tone and unexplained positions. Or aren't they unexplainable and unexplainable? Of course, the Committee on Production and Trade is legislating, committing, showing the real political person and realising the real interests that everyone serves. It's not a field for unadulterated ideas exhibitions. It is clear that much of the theme of today's draft law is directly or indirectly about road safety and civil protection, such as the modernisation of the Road Traffic Code, the criteria for imposing fines, the transport of dangerous goods, the traffic of bicycles, the control of imported used cars, the control of CTEOs and many others that we have discussed in the Committee on Road Safety. The intensity of support for specific business sectors that wanted to move into grey fiscal and professional areas and the refusal to enter clean and clear rules of business, healthy competition, protection of those sectors affected by unfair practices was also felt. One wonders if all this is random. I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, with this very important bill it is possible to fill gaps in existing legislation and correct failures of the past. It is being modernised, as I said before, by the Road Traffic Code. It defines the institutional framework for the use of bicycles, an instrument which in recent years has increased its use and should ensure that the state ensures, for cyclists' safety and for the proper and safe operation of all modes of transport. Reshape the risk-based infringement framework, accident frequency and antisocial behaviour. The introduction of an infringement of objective behaviour, in addition to contributing in particular to the strengthening of road safety, also contributes to the development of a sense of respect for the citizen and the environment. Income criteria are laid down in the imposition of fines in order to eliminate the behaviour of the type 'illegally and pay' or even worse 'illegally because I can pay'. It is a position proposed by the Committee on Road Safety, as I have said before. Furthermore, the institutional framework for the import of used vehicles is tightened up by the creation of control mechanisms to put an end to illegal circuits, thereby protecting citizens and companies operating in this area from some scientists. It also restored the control system for private CTE through the ‘online’ platform of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which had been abolished unnecessarily by previous governments and objectively favoured the opacityability of carrying out the checks carried out by the private CTEO. At the same time, the regions are allowed to operate public RTEs in the form of a public limited company in which the region will hold an absolute majority of the share capital so that there is flexibility in the recruitment of staff and the amount of the fee for the periodic and regular monitoring of vehicles in the public CTEs is introduced, with competitive criteria on the market of each region, so that they are not at a disadvantage compared to the private sector. In addition, it is necessary to establish a non-compatible operation of private RTEs with other activities that conflict with their capacity as vehicle auditors. With regard to the hot issue of intermediation companies - passenger transport with public passenger vehicles, we had the opportunity to enjoy the agonizing efforts of a part of the Opposition, especially of the New Democracy and its rapporteur, faithfully serve the interests of certain businesses in the interests of traditional professionals in the area and of the public interest. The rapporteur, therefore, spoke about the destruction of healthy entrepreneurship, because we incorporate these companies, which are, of course, operating essentially as transport companies, within the institutional framework laid down for all such companies. They will be taxed and controlled from now on in the same way as all the other relevant companies and should follow the relevant legislation on the collection and processing of personal data. In other words, the impartial attitude and equal treatment of the State of like companies for the New Democracy Party and some others are considered to be a disaster of healthy entrepreneurship. Are you talking, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, about the entrepreneurship of the best friends and friends, about a entrepreneurship that strengthened the corruption circuits, which fuelled all over the world offshore of the paradises, which devastated and destroyed the financial sector with the outflow of funds abroad and the loans of the besties, which charged the country billions so that we could lead to an economic crisis, bankruptcy, monuments, the destruction of the social fabric and the poorness of a large part of the Greek citizens? Then, yes, in this entrepreneurship, we consciously put barriers and we are proud of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than half a minute. You also accused us of ignoring the basic principles of electronic business. If we judge from your choice of using the COBOL language in creating a vehicle register, an outdated language, which even requires high maintenance costs, then I do not think you should feel very proud of your own knowledge in the field. The next, of course, advanced, what will be your proposal? Working with FORTRAN? That would also be progress for you. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is very positive that the Minister and the State Secretary have incorporated proposals to improve the draft law that we have proposed to the committee both Members from all the wings and bodies who participated in the hearing of the bodies, proof of the real dialogue that has taken place in these days between those who wanted this dialogue, but also with society beyond preconceived reactions and post-conflict opposition krone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the draft law on transport, and because seven minutes is certainly not enough to refer to most of its ninety articles, let me turn to two issues to the monitoring of the Road Traffic Code, which is a key element in our road behaviour and the dispute with transport services and its implications. Let me start by saying that we should normally talk not generally about transport just like this, but about a sustainable mobility bill. I will not dwell so much on the issues of the Road Traffic Code, whether fines are correct or not, and whether or not they have to be linked to the economic situation. Even the Scientific Service of the Parliament has objections to this. Our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have developed all this a moment ago. I'll stand on something else. Whatever legislation we are dealing with, however strict provisions and, if there is no control over the implementation of legislation, it is air words or rather air laws. Look, for example, athletic violence phenomena, the anti-smoking law, my favorite, driving behaviour. Think: Why are there not any incidents in the European toys of the teams? Why don't the Greek theatricals dress the cafes abroad? Why don't they make scary streets when they're in other countries? Because there is no sense of impunity like this, but there is substantial control and policing over it. Even here, traffic cameras for bus control do not lift the proud neck of the Greek, who sees his road as a prick. It is not enough, therefore, only to have a more stringent Road Traffic Code, but also to have more effective control by the police with the help of, of course, the technology that we have completely inactivated in the name of a furniture hypersensitivity. But, real sensitivity is to prevent someone from being antisocial on the street. Let me now go to the piece of the bill in the so-called transport mediation, the part concerning 'BEAT', the former 'TAXIBEAT', 'UBER', etc. Here - I think I heard them from the speeches earlier - the bill puts apples and oranges in the same basket. We've heard it from others. The other is the 'BEAT' that uses the existing taxi fleet for mediation and another UBER that creates its own fleet, and that is definitely where a delimitation is needed, as has been done in other countries or is trying to be at least. It is like comparing, for example, the booking.com, which is an intermediation company for rooms in existing hotels and rentals with the airbnb platform that has simple private means. The status of ‘UBER’ and airbnb needs regulation and this is done in all countries, as this is an open issue, the services of a shared economy, as it is said, in order to ensure conditions of competition on equal terms and with contractual providers. But what does Beat have to do with it? Is that the ‘BEAT’ of a transport company? It's like saying that "AIRTICKETS" - and I imagine that those who often use air travel are surely an airline or as if you were saying that "AIRTICKETS", which is an electronic mediation platform for food orders, is a restaurant. And it is wondered that the Ministry considers the 'BEAT' a transport company, apparently motivated by the trade union taxi that they see, badly, as something hostile. If I were President of this trade union, I would say to the Minister not to put obstacles but to make it easier because I would consider it an ally, because it increases the market share of taxi on the transport project. It is a Greek innovation that was sold in a car industry colossus in "DAIMLER" and made fashion the easy use of taxi, at a time when, I recall, youth and society are more and more diverse than ownership in the use of services. The “BEAT” was the right tool at the right time, so that the use of taxi can be upgraded, developed a relationship of confidence, convenience, quality and safety, so that the car purchase or the car rental for everyday travel can be seen as luxury when there is an easy and secure access to a taxi. Instead, we saw in committee, at the hearing of the bodies, a regular interrogation of the representative of 'BEAT' by the Minister, an interrogation as a suspect in the crime of innovation. So what's behind it? In my opinion, the bogeyman is hiding in the evaluation that some want to avoid, like the devil, the ink. And the government doesn't spoil them. We see it in education, we see it in public administration. The assessment of the government is like mud oil, which is forced by Europeans to drink, put it in the mouth and when they don't look, turns around and spit it out. Whether he's pretending to make an assessment of people's eyes or not at all, like in education with the bill that we see coming for the various education structures. To go back to the bill, I believe that the 'BEAT' crime is that it allows driver evaluation, which for some is unacceptable. 'From where and until where did the citizen choose?' was heard. ‘What are we? Girls in the window.’; I do not think that reflects the view of all professionals who provide services, whether taxis or teachers or teachers or civil servants. The one who cares about his work, who likes his job, wants to get better. The progressive, creative one who wants to evolve, improve, is not afraid to be evaluated. He who's afraid to be assessed is the one who's comfortable with what he's doing. He doesn't want some people trying harder and ruining the street. The least possible requirements, the least effort that leads to 'all the same', fails when this assessment exists. However, when the evaluation has been linked in the mind of some to punishment rather than to evolution, and some have serious responsibilities for this, then fatal evaluation becomes synonymous with punishment rather than a synonym of improvement. With regard to the amendment for teachers in pilot schools - and I close slowly, Mr President - the Minister said half of the amendment. He mentioned the transfers of teachers that are indeed in the right direction. For the extension of the term of office, however, - not mentioned by the Minister - the government obviously has in mind what had been done with the Foundation Councils at the HR. When a institution wants to degenerate, it does not function normally, based on the laws, but it extends by considering the mortal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr. President. But it also brings them together, and the moves and the extension of office to a package so that we cannot vote against one another and vote against the other. In conclusion, in the specific provisions which I referred to about 'BEAT' and not 'UBER', which is another case - as my colleagues have said very well - we have, on the one hand, the innovation, the choice and, on the other, the conservative reflexes of a state of mind. We are not 'Beat'. We are with the citizens and with the best services to them. Between maintenance and progress with my own thinking and not with the stereotypes that have been cultivated that the left and conservative are the right one, the government has chosen a camp. And that's definitely not the camp with the progressive flag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u285	So do we. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are talking about a bill by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which will require two hundred and twenty ministerial decisions, thirty joint ministerial decisions and fifteen new electronic platforms. And we don't say that all this is going to be done by any ministry. We're talking about this particular ministry. It is the Ministry that has canceled the Patras - Pyrgos competition for three years. He made him eight pieces. He was telling us three years ago, that he'd be starting very soon. Our Minister called for a ouza in Patras to tell us how it would start. He did it eight contractors and three years later, there is not even a shovel of gravel on this road. It's the Minister who was sending studies for southern engraving, who of course no one saw. It is the Minister who is now feeding on the "indigenous" of Achaia, plunging the train from one end to the other. These are, of course, studies that have never been done. So this minister who cannot do such an important job for the West Greek Region will make two hundred and twenty ministerial decisions. As far as the government's experience of the part of e-government, the introduction of technology into public administration, transparency, all it has to show for three years is electronic auctions, nothing else. In fact, in the two parts of this bill, which are controversial, we are trying to clarify the self-evident, because unfortunately in this country with this government and with this Minister we find it difficult to understand the obvious. Transport work in Greece is carried out under the law very specific categories. They're taxis on the one hand, they're travel agencies, and they're rental companies too. They perform transportation work. Apart from that, there are some electronic platforms that actually come and make it easier for customers to find a taxi while they want and wherever they want, while fully observing the law. In fact, a new electronic taxi course is being created. Because that's what we need, needs are changing. Once we stopped on the road, then we passed the radio-taxes. Fortunately, we are in the era of the electronic revolution. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] From that point on, if there is a gray area, an area where people are actually illegal and using loopholes of the law to intercept taxi transport, why does the government not go ahead in their arrest? The arrest of drivers under what laws? Was it based on laws brought by this government or by the previous government? The previous government. So what we're doing is behind a grey belt and behind a mist to mess with technology. Mr. Spirjis learned the political letters at the old PASOK, as he says. I'll remind you of the Minister of Press, the late Maruda. When they had told him then that they would broadcast private channels, he said 'I will forbid them'. When they told him they would broadcast satellites, he said, "I'll drop the satellites." Mr. Spirtzis learned the letters from there. We really need to answer the question who we want our child to go home safely. The cab. We don't care about the platform. And with "BEAT" or with any other platform, our child home takes a taxi. What we have to say - and it is the language of the truth - is to make cabs better, to give tools to people who practice this profession to defeat their fear. What you do is raise their fear, threatening or creating new enemies. I really went to talk to a lot of travellers in Patras. It is fear of the unknown, fear of the new and the mist that the Minister creates to create enemies. What we need to do and what we need to see are tools so that the cabs really are upgraded. What we always have in mind when we talk about personal transport is taxi. Tools are good to have. Tools will come too. We can't stop technology. We mustn't stop technology. In Greece, the law is clear, the law says that for three hours you can rent a car with a driver or rent from the tourist guide office. He's clear. If this piece is used and it passes into gray areas, it's a part that the state has to solve. So I insist that we give travellers tools to get better. We'll have to finish with this retrograde battle, that we'll shoot the satellites. The satellites won't come. The country needs technology, the country needs innovation. What we should all have in mind is that in a safe way the child will go home with a good, upgraded taxi, which will use technologies, so that we can really know where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have fallen out in an hour. You said you did not have a picture of amendments, but Mr Pappas came and tabled a new amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u289	He was filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u290	In the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u291	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this about the amendment it had tabled, the late amendment, Mr Pappas: I very much agree with this amendment. It makes it incompatible that a person in the Telecommunications Committee cannot then, for example, be a lawyer to any other company for five years or anything. Is Mrs Thanano wondered by the President of the Ice Bay, could she be in the Prime Minister's office? I wonder, and I put it as a question. Minister, I want to raise a point. We have actually identified two problems relating to the absorption of the NRP some time ago. One of the issues is the public procurement contracts that we have submitted. I hope and hope they will be resolved so that we can move forward. But you will allow me today to deal with a small amendment which is six lines, but it is very important because it highlights the problem of the country, shows hypocrisy and how the country cannot move forward and takes five years to sign a PPP contract. This is perhaps the country's problem in recent years! Ladies and gentlemen, the garbage - and you all know it - produces wealth if we make use of it. You will allow me to tell you that all PPPs, which were to proceed, namely Western Macedonia, Peloponnese, Ilias, Serres, Epirus, as well as those that had moved forward, Aetolokarnania, Achaia, Attica and Corfu, were all done from 2009 to 2011 and continued. They had a budget of 1,7 billion euros. So, what did they give? It was a real pillar of development: we were protecting the environment and water resources, there were beneficial consequences for tourism and the agricultural sector and, of course, new jobs. Mr President-in-Office, that is why you should know that we will also put a roll-call vote. It'll be very interesting. I shall refer to the specific PPP project of Peloponnese. I have not seen anyone, I hope the SYRIZA Members will also speak on this matter. On 30 July 2013, the ‘TERNA’ for waste management of Peloponnese garbage is a shareholder. Then there is a big event in Tripoli with Mr. Manatis, Mr. Hadjidakis, Mr. Mitarakis. Then Mr Hatzidakis says that this is a very important task, we need to move forward and we solve all the problems slowly. In July 2014, we have the adoption of a decision approving environmental conditions. Then, all this time, SYRIZA said the project is a pharaonic type, which has been done with a scandalous contract with known manufacturers. And it comes in 2015, Mr. Tsitonis and the government of SYRIZA and says that this work cannot go any further. And what does he actually do? Because it's worth it. It takes responsibility from the region - the ministers will know this here, there are no others - and it says that this responsibility has never been done in the world before. With the amendment of the three rows today, it reappoints the Peloponnese Region! Cheerios takes her, Skourliss. Now, this point is very interesting: Mr Famelos, who is signing this procedure today, what does he say that day? It says that Mr Tsironi's amendment is very correct. They shared Greece in packages to make large factories! The company that had taken the competition is the same one that will continue the project. Were you talking about them? Let's go down. The accident, however, is - and here you forgive me - that New Democracy and this provision are being voted by both SYRIZA and New Democracy. In other words, what Mr Hatzidakis said was a great project, he came along with Mr. Tsironi and they convicted it, they denounced it. And today, after five years, where we lost resources, jobs, time, you come without shame, in one minute, along with Mr Skourletis, and you say 'we are moving on with this process'. I want to show you something. In 2007, when the government had negotiated - and did, in my opinion - what did SYRIZA say? We will be looking to hide, say, in the Peloponnese - I show it, although there is no one from the Peloponnese - if the waste contract is signed. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However - and this is why we are proud of you as a Democratic Reconciliation, because you are voting today - I am voting for my letter, Mr Maniotis and Leonida Gregorakos, where we say that you will soon come to the path that we have chosen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am also asking our question about the cost of garbage. Mr. Flamouraris answered us and admits all that we have been talking about. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Gentlemen of SYRIZA, without any sign of shame, do all that you do. You know, today we want to see whether you are all going to vote - it is very important - these six lines, which is the real problem of the country, in which we target entrepreneurs and projects, just to get a little party time and then you all get to accept this convention today. And I want to tell you, Minister, because you were at the last development conference, that this contract is not Mr Tatolis's. Mr. Tatilis has no contract of his own. After all, he can tell you about Mr Tatoulis too much, your Secretary-General, who has been his Vice-President. And don't be flattered that he told you publicly that you're going to get a second government service. He tells everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u293	Ten minutes, Mr President, like the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u294	You're in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u295	The PPP doesn't belong to anyone. It belongs to the world, to farmers, to tourism, to the whole of the Peloponnese, which must and should be done. And because, gentlemen, we now come to end a major issue, which started in 2013, in which SYRIZA and then unfortunately New Democracy voted against this major project, not as a staff project, but as a major development project. We are here proud today, as a Democratic Incorporation, because all the PPPs started in 2009 until 2012. We are proud, because until 2012 they were signed and we are still proud, because we did not take a single step back to get the country to development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u296	Minister Spirtzis has the floor to make legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendments that are accepted. I'm reading the numbers and I'm developing some of them. It is Amendment No 1512/10 by the Ministry of Finance concerning the "Navy and Industrial Enterprises of Syros Anonymous Company". It is Amendment No 1522/17 by the Ministry of Interior on the issue of the allocation of CFP appropriations for fire protection. It is Amendment No 1523/18 by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs to re-establish the matters of the staff of the educational staff of the pilot and experimental schools. Amendment No 1526 by the Ministry of Health is also accepted, with regard to the clarification of the property status of land which comes after many years at the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "St. Paul". Amendment No 1527 by the Ministry of Interior, on the regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of Interior. Amendment No 1531 is also accepted to redefined the procedure for the issue of building permits for real estate or management of GAIAOSE SA. Parliamentary Amendment Nos 1529 and 23, which deal with additional compensation for projects outside the government budget, is accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1525 and a special 19 amendments to No 4412/16. These are very important regulations and the development of the project. This amendment is also parliamentary and is accepted. The amendment, with a general number of 1519 and a special 16, concerns the minimum rent for the EITs. This amendment is also a parliamentary amendment and they are parliamentarians over the two parties which sign it. It's also accepted. Amendment No 1513, and Amendment No 11, which extends the operation of workshops under Article 22 of the AD78/1988, is also accepted. Finally, the amendment with a general number of 1532 on the OSTH programme, Mr Triantafylides, is also accepted. We'll develop, and then we'll make it acceptable. If you want, I can now. A ministerial amendment by the Ministry of Finance for the workers of the old ELPAP is now accepted. I would like to say, in order that there are no gaps, with regard to two Members of Mr Lazaridis, that one was accepted, Amendment No 1516/14- was accepted, and I said it before - with a legislative improvement, as did Mr Caranastasssis, which we said in the committee. The second amendment, with the general number 1517/15, concerning the provisions, has also been requested by the representatives of the owners of stations. We reserve, Mr Lazarides, to ask for a technical assessment from the services and we will return if what you say is covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u298	An amendment to Article 12 of our own?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u299	The rest of the filed and not mentioned are not accepted. We will then develop why they are not accepted. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, the legislative improvement we have said is as follows: (1) Article 73 of the draft law: In the first subparagraph of paragraph 6 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 511/1970 (A/91), as replaced by Article 73 of the draft law, the words ‘and those under Law 2963/2001 (A 268)’ shall be deleted. I'm making the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like the floor for a few questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Katsotis, Mr. Gregos is already in Step. As soon as my colleague, Mr Katsotis, has finished, I shall give you the floor. Let's be a little discreet. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. We don't know if you're going to bring in any more amendments. We still have two hours. You might bring some after the bill was passed. That is all it has done so far. First of all, the words darkness, intolerance, hate rhetoric and racism against the Greeks belong entirely to SYRIZA and the Left. Also, when you blame us for whatever reason and in any way you do not only to us Golden Dawn MPs, but also to our hundreds of thousands of Greek supporters. We heard a speaker from SYRIZA say about the buses of OSTH, but he did not tell us about the buses that have burned your "your children", nor about the routes of terror in the well-known areas of Athens and Thessaloniki. Also, an important issue is that of the safety of taxi drivers, who are very often victims of all kinds of criminals and have no protection. I also don't know how many of you are on public transport, but you probably don't risk it and not for economic reasons. We are discussing a very serious bill, which concerns many different issues. I would particularly like to refer to the provisions relating to the CAP. The tragic results of the incompetence of the governments are being experienced every day, with a tragic account of wheels throughout the country. Everyone agrees that their approach is mainly a matter of education, but that is certainly not all. But let's start with this. What kind of education? The one that doesn't exist at any appearance of student life, family and social life and behavior? The standard for each new driver of any vehicle is mainly the narrow family cycle. The image of the father or mother in antisocial behavior, dangerous driving, is clearly a very bad example for the future driver. As far as education is concerned, what better than setting the Circuit Course as a primary and basic in the three grades of high school? It is as basic as human life and much more essential than other lessons. Let us say here that a fundamental sign of culture is respect for the environment by all drivers. It is often the phenomenon of dumping all kinds of waste from car windows, which is dangerous for other drivers, especially for motorcycle drivers, but also causes pollution in the area. And here the fines should be too strict. Another major issue, which no one does, and no one does so, is the attention which should be paid to respect for animals, although they do not know the Road Traffic Code, but many drivers behave like animals in animals. To return to the subject of education, I should like to point out to you, as with frequent questions, the well-known but totally disfellowshiped issue of Carriage Parks. Most, if not all, have been turned into garbage and not just education, not only do they provide children, but they are also dangerous. We have to ensure that the co-responsible ministries are also involved in this matter. Of course, in addition to the increase in fines for serious infringements, such as alcohol driving, participation in improvised struggles, demonstration of competition capacity and impression, there might also be provision for the confiscation of the vehicle, violation of the red signal and STOP and, of course, illegal overcoming. Also heavy should be the fine for those who slowly drive the left-hand lane, as they usually cause fatal accidents, but also for those who lead to the emergency strips for no reason. This requires the assistance of other drivers with a simple call on the track. With regard to the submission of fines on the basis of income criteria, a simple question I would like to ask: for example, a young, unemployed young person, a hired car and an accident occurs. His father may, however, have a large economic surface. I repeat, the young man is unemployed and his father has a great income. What happens in this case? So Trolley's gonna ask for an E9? What, too, if someone else leases, does another lead to an accident? Who, what and how will he pay with what data? There's ambiguities and injustices in this bill. An important guide is EL.AS statistics. and, of course, the experts who are, fortunately, involved in such matters. Of course the causes of the scourge that is extinguishing thousands of people in our country are well-known, as is the inability of the governments responsible for this particular genocide: the incomplete controls on vehicles and drivers, you are getting a diploma and drive without any repetition for many years, the badly-built roads with known contractors who, of course, are never punished for any fault they have, incomplete marking and lighting, unexistent traffic treatment, as I said above, insignificant information at all levels by the state, about the risks and rules to be respected by everyone. Here could very easily be a distribution of printed material from the competent services in urban, toll and provincial streets, but more drastic measures, such as the placement of damaged vehicles in incisive locations, but also shocking photographs of fatal accidents on special spots, which will often be played in the media in hours of big viewing. It is well below the shock that these images would cause from the tragic outcome of an accident. There are many other reasons that have been identified and recorded by the institutions, but little has been done so far. Also, as I have said above, the law must apply to everyone. Now, of course, how do you apply the law to people who care about their lives or the lives of their children? A characteristic is the case of the Roma, as you tell them, who, with various vehicles of all kinds, carry up children, even on the sidewalk. Of course, they are not fines on income criteria, nor can you forbid them from anything. The bill, as our special speaker has said, also has positive articles, some of which we will vote against, some we will vote against and some will vote'residents'. The point is to stop this peculiar genocide that plagues our country. We are all concerned, because we are all potential victims of this undeclared war, which must finally stop and assume their responsibilities. The country's economic crisis is also reflected in this issue, with disastrous consequences. I will close with the phrases and thoughts of the well-known Javertis: "There is nothing more dramatic and tragic than the parents accompanying their loving children in their last home or seeing them live, but disabled, deplorable and helpless forever in a dark corner of the tomb cell, which became their home after unbelievable and unexpected traffic. It is no less the pain of orphans, of course, that their parents were lost or amputated in the asphalt, because they did not realize that the wheels do not stand out for anyone and knock indiscriminately on those who go around with them, without seeing them on the streets. It will never happen to us, only to others." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. "Unfortunately, however, we are all "we others" and if we do not show respect and fear, I would say, for something that really eliminates and destroys dozens of lives every day, it is certain that the most horrible one will knock on our own door and then it will be too late for repentance and other behaviors. From the first citizen to the last of this foolish country, a genuine national issue should be believed. It is what we are, unfortunately, letting it be gigantic about our enemy for life asphalt." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Carras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, when it comes to a transport bill, we look to the 'other provisions' that it regulates or does not regulate, because there are always gaps and shortcomings in transport matters. So I have turned over to the other provisions of the bill - and I do not want to be tiring about the first four parts, a lot has been said - and I have found that to prove the depreciation of rail transport. Why am I saying that? It shall be demonstrated by the provisions itself. So it comes in Article 75 and admits that no drivers have been trained, no assistant drivers have been trained and it comes today and tells us that we need a bill. Indeed, we do. If we want to have a transport framework in a country, if we want a country to be under development, it also needs rail transport. But that's what people do, they don't automatically do machines. So we see that we have a shortage of drivers and assistants and we are trying today to cut down, with the time of training, these licences are required. Let's go down. We see that we have a Regulatory Authority, RAS, which is subordinated, whose performance I do not know. On its website, it has been said, but as far as I can tell at least, it is the communal and common, and we are told that we will "remove three positions" - but those which have been abolished were not paid - "and we will appoint special advisers of the President". So let's see whether or not this is going to work or not, some people who are going to be prosecuted by specialist consultants, scientific collaborators and have the privileges of these special positions. However, what comes far more importantly is Article 79, which deals mainly with the issues of the huge property managed by GAIAOSE, the huge real estate of the old railway infrastructure, the well-advertised work of the Triasian freight station. So what do we see today from reading Article 79? That the government is trying today to authorize this work, which has been sleeping for so many years. And how does he try to clear it, ladies and gentlemen? Through the law and not through the standard process of defining terms and limitations of structure so that they can be checked. It attempts by law not to check whether or not they are compatible with the environmental protection provisions, not to know whether they are compatible with the General Building Regulation and, by way of derogation, all will be authorised by law. It may be a good thing, but it is not the Orthodox way of talking about environmental protection and the maintenance of legality. But within the same article there are some other issues that are of interest. Once again, which I have commented on many times, that when we talk about concessions, about PPPs or other investments of this kind, the relevant OTAs, the municipality, are always paying it. It states that the company ‘services itself’. The company will be self-sufficient and will not pay municipal cleaning fees in return for the reason that the company itself will take care of them. At one point, however, the company itself cannot take care of and will be forced to call the municipality without paying him the services: at that point when it comes to rejecting the residues. Where's it going to be? Is it going to be naughty right and left? Oh, no! This is managed by law by a body, a municipality. That's why I don't hear anything. Of course, I am going further, because I will necessarily be confined to these issues due to time. We have the famous public service obligations for passenger transport by train. I had made a timely question a year ago, and I was asking which areas are being subsidised as barren with the famous 50 million million a year, which the Greek State has at TRAINOSE without a tender, by direct award. Do you know what the answer was? That the Athens-Thessaloniki line, which has a basic completeity, is subsidised, the Athens-Chalkida suburban line, but those areas that have been restricted by rail transport, such as the Peloponnese lines, from Patras below, are not subsidised. They'll be put, he says, later on the Juncker package, but train isn't enough. I would like to remind you that the train is a timeless value, in that it serves not only passengers, but also goods and many times rail transport is cheaper. Unfortunately, however, this is not solved by the bill either. In order to transfer the time to solve the problems, it says 'we will build an electronic platform in which we will put the data in order to draw the conclusions'. But, Mr President, to conclude, because I see that the end of my time is near, I shall refer to Article 84 on the famous 'ESST', the company responsible for the maintenance of rolling stock. So what do we see? That she doesn't have any mechanical permits. The law is coming now and says that an annual leave will be granted. It does not have the conditions, but in any case it is licensed. But why did they remember it now? Because there was a competition through the HICP, which demonstrated the failure of this whole system. When the company itself has been valued by an independent valuer at around 25 million, the only offer given was 9 million. And why were the 9 million? Because there was another precedent, which unfortunately does not contribute: TRAINOSE had been purchased for 45 million. Really, I have a question: This famous contract of TRAINOSE will never come to Parliament to see it? Will it never be activated to see if the buyer is indeed an investor? Or is the buyer only sufficient to enjoy the 50 million per year that the State has to serve - supposedly - on pure lines?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is there any development on the rail network? Is there any development in freight rail and passenger transport, or will it be dragged over the next few years? Unfortunately, this bill in the relevant provisions did not give me any positive answers, on the contrary, it strengthened my concerns. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give some thought to the development of the debate. We've made a decision at 7 p.m. to make the roll-call vote. This cannot be changed because many colleagues have adapted their departure to the region as well, on the basis of that given. That won't change. There is no way that the whole list will be over by that time - because no fellow Members have agreed to opt out - unless we reduce the time and if we do not agree in some way to be consistent in time. Otherwise, the seven, eight and more Members will not speak, and that is a shame. I'm telling you to keep this in mind. Please, everyone help, because otherwise it's not right for the last colleagues. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I came to place myself in your bill, motivated by two main things you said in committee. The first was the most creepy. It is the most creepy scene I have seen, Minister, to address anyone who has participated in a parliamentary committee. You said to Mr Drandakis of 'TAXIBEAT' that the ILO would have a lot of work to do. Back in the day, you know, Minister, we, those of us who work and we have business and we are on the street, considered the most immoral people, the most vulgar ones who threatened to send him the tax. And suddenly I saw someone do it as Minister. I do not know how you did it, but you should know that it is not your responsibility to threaten anyone who comes to the Greek Parliament at all. It was a shameful scene for Parliament. The second reason is from the video that Mr Drandakis was trying to explain to you the difference between subsidy and discount. You know, Minister, we may have many political differences. But you've been president of the TEI. You were a professional, you weren't unpaid. A citizen cannot come, even successful businessman, and humiliate a minister in this way. Evidently, anyone who has worked in his life can understand the difference between subsidy and discount. In this case, then, I would like to ask you very well: What is the government annoying if a company of its own profits to subdue the race, the taxi driver to get what the law provides, the customer to pay less and the company to earn less? Why is that bothering you? Because I honestly don't understand that. I thought we were all in favour of citizens and we want them to pay less. I've never seen a government that wants to legislate for people to pay more. And note - because you have there and your supporter, I will not even say his name, which writes us articles and awries us, although in many years it has been widely benefiting from New Democracy - that the main category is that New Democracy is its 'UBER' party. I would like, Minister, to ask you, to understand this: when is the 'UBER' benefit any more? With the Hatzidakis law that provided for six hours of race or the Spirtzi Law that provides for three hours of race? Because taxi drivers, the professional taxi drivers who are now listening to us must know that if a government really legislated in favour of 'UBER' you are the ones who did the six hours three. And for a strange reason your good friend and ally has forgotten that, he has not noticed to tell the professionals who vote for him, even those few. Thirdly, I would very much like to understand, Minister, why the evaluation of drivers by a company is bothering you. You've signed a Memorandum. And I'll say that the evaluation first of all doesn't like you and you like us all to do the same, because that's your ideology. You've signed a Memorandum. And you signed it, Spirji. You may cry when you sign the immunizations and tear the tear on the signature, but the chair holds it and the memorandum you have voted on it. In this Memorandum the evaluation refers to all: public assessment, evaluation of structures, evaluation of degrees. The whole Memorandum is how to bring the evaluation to Greece. And suddenly Mr. Spirtzis comes and says 'no, especially for companies that cooperate with taxi drivers, there must be no assessment. We must all go down, not pressure anyone to offer better services." I don't understand why. Do you have any reason to protect the bad professional? Do you mind? You're gonna protect him? Don't laugh, because that's what you're doing. Mr President, the New Democracy has made it clear. Another thing is the 'UBER' and another thing is the 'TAXIBEAT'. For UBER, there is a decision of the European institutions that provides a way out of how this company will be treated and how it uses transport services at a pan-European level. We support this solution. TAXIBEAT and any similar platform - I'm talking about a company - does not use non-professional taxi drivers. In other words, all the transport services and all the cigarettes go to professional taxi drivers. So there's no reason these people are opposed to attempts that raise the cigarette, so they're multiplying their races, so they're multiplying their jobs. But it is the new era and in the new era you cannot always say 'no' to make ruffles or make political alliances. Greece must somehow be able to move forward. I shall close, Minister, only with the relevant Article 86, if I remember well, the direct assignment that you are going to vote on this evening, because we are also living in this period of scandalology and on both sides of mud and all that I do not like at all. But I have to tell you, because I want to be clear and for SYRIZA's colleagues to know what they are voting on. They give you the direct authority to proceed with direct assignments and I have to tell you that already the street - I regret to say it, but it reached my ears - says the company that will take it. So I would like to ask you this: is the company known to take it and have an ancient Greek name of French-speaking philosopher? I say it and you get it. We've come to an understanding. If this company takes it - the plaque already vacant, as you ask this amendment to give it to this particular company - then you understand, Minister, why you are doing so. By means of legislative authorization, that is, you are going through the responsibility of SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues. I do not understand why you, ladies and gentlemen, are voting for such an amendment. Where again has the Minister been given legislative authority for direct delegation? Never again. So, Minister, by summarising, you should firstly explain why you are against paying people less money when the taxi driver does not lose a cent of the euro. Secondly, why are you opposed to an assessment and better transport services being provided? Thirdly, you should tell us whether you have already decided which company you will direct delegation and why. I would like specific answers to these three questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u310	Would you like me to answer you now, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u311	I'd like you now if you want the floor to answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u312	Minister, not now, because we will stop other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, we are a Parliament. Let him say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u314	Mr Georgiadis, let us be a little fair to colleagues. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, before I refer to the specialised issues of the bill, to say again to what environment we are discussing this bill. This is an environment which, despite any communication skills of the government, is of concern and profound uncertainty to the citizens. Of course, it is far from the virtual reality that this government is trying to create. Three years now, the bilingualism of the government continues at all levels, the underestimation of serious situations, the superficial treatment of others, but also the attempt to control independent authorities, because we have heard today trying to strengthen an independent authority by the Minister, without saying anything about all the attempt to undermine independent authorities that have been made in the past period. In fact, some of them relate to the House itself. As regards the economy, according to the last OECD report, Greece is a tax champion and lastly in the development and support of the unemployed. The average tax burden in Greece is 38.2% of income compared with very low percentages throughout the year, even in the richest countries. However, with regard to this ratio, Mr Spirtzi, because you often want to talk about left-wing and socialist policy, what socialist and left-wing policy has been done with the prevalence of indirect taxes and an increase in taxes in recent years? It is the main issue of taxation, which basically defines the mark of policy and shows the enormous increase in indirect taxes that this government has done in recent years. In this context we are discussing the draft transport legislation today. It is a bill which brings powers to the Minister, such as Article 88, where contracts for direct rents of immovable property will be signed by the sectoral minister, namely you. Of course, here, in addition to over-concentration of powers, you also promote direct awards - many speakers have told you - by way of derogation from the law once again. Avoid the tender for renting real estate for the housing of the Civil Aviation Service, in particular for the provision of commercial training and other services, unless this is another way of favouring your own. In addition to Article 82, which is another example, you legislate a rewarded secondary committee, defying your previous decree that abolished it. It will now not only consist of doctors of the ESS, but also of private specificities with their assistants. And you will decide for her. On what criteria will you and doctors decide? The bill presupposes the adoption of tens of ministerial decisions. No binding timetables shall be provided. The experience so far has shown that in such cases the implementation of whatever law is being delayed, and that it is suffering from an extremely bureaucratic dimension. You do not commit to specific timetables. The draft law, too, aims at more fiscal measures than to the proper functioning of the market. Everywhere fines, which in some cases are doubled or tripled, without any documentation, evaluation of results, for example, existing regulations, without any measures to prevent infringements. So fatefully we have a bill of taxation, instead of a bill that will really facilitate the functioning of the market itself by rules that the state must put, but to facilitate it, not prevent it. The bill is obsolete. You understand that not only can not be a housewife in this way, but also suspicions of a new waste are created and uncertainty is generally created about the final cost. Minister, the bill contains scandalous provisions, such as, for example, Article 67, I have not seen you answer - where the President of the National Road Safety Council, who happens to be your former State Secretary, your Ministry, your concurrent party, the ANELs, your Government, a Council whose work is a social offer, not a wage recovery project. Therefore, since its recommendation in 2010, it does not provide for remuneration or compensation for the President. No president has had any remuneration or compensation so far. But don't you have a limit? You don't even keep the pretexts? Do you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, today's salary to Mrs Chrysovelloni? That's what this is about. That is what the Greek Parliament is doing today. Especially for the President of the National Road Safety Council. So you'll keep the ANLLs in the government, in power? Is that the way you're working? This is a major issue where you need to answer and leave this provision even now, once such a matter has arisen. But it also contains some provisions with a lot of backwards. And let's go see what you've finally achieved for these provisions with this bill in committee. As far as the driver age limit is concerned, at first you suggested that school transport should be the limit at sixty. First of all, you have not beenhaved uniformly with regard to school drivers and tour transport. You corrected that. You saw after that if he stays at sixty he'll be a vacant until they get to retirement. So you've been to the committees since sixty-five and sixty. You're coming now and you're taking it from sixty to seventy in a day. So you brought it from sixty-five to sixty-six and sixty-seven again. I mean, it's a legacy that changes the way and age every day. While you wanted to reduce it, you then increase it. Of course, all the intermediate stages are the same and we know how they work in practice. We also know the disadvantages of our institutional framework - we do not need to analyse them here - which were in the previous legislative framework and that. But I'm talking about the change you're making now, which really shows that there's no design, we're working here in the leg. Give an answer. Finally, it was the sixty-seven good one, and it's just, why can't they get the pension, take them to sixty-seven, or is it sixty-seven? It can't be both. I am not talking now about other incomprehensible provisions such as, for example, Article 31, where it is forbidden to carry out a transport operation with stops and a fare from closed-type tourist buses. Whilst, Minister, tourist buses can, in fact, collect groups of passengers, so they are making stops anyway. Fortunately you corrected what you had not to carry out international scheduled bus lines, while this is done with the permission of another service of your Ministry. The mess! Now, with regard to Article 28 on fines. That's a lot of conversation about fines. Go ahead, see what you've done. At first, you said that it was based on income and assets criteria. I think you are confused. And what are we doing today at this level too? Because I believe that you have finally kept incomes, that they can be made by a ministerial decision - to be precise - and put aside the assets. And you are confusing us here, even confusing the report of the Scientific Office of Parliament, if you read it well, because in the explanatory statement it is stated that appropriate data from the National Statistical Office can be taken into account, and that is exactly what you should have taken into account in order to substantiate the proposed provision in which it is made. As I see here, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament clearly states that 'the Constitution cannot therefore be the subject of a ministerial decision'. You are not answering us, but you are answering the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I think a congressman has put this on you before. Of course, it says other things about the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, that under the Constitution the terms "institutional criteria" need to be clarified, as well as the type of data collected by the Greek Statistical Authority and other authorities, as well as the way in which they are assessed. All of this stays at the moment. Now, the bill also does not provide any scientific documentation to support the proposed changes to brokering services for passenger transport. In support of this, we see in the Report on the Effects of Arrangements that you are asked to mention an example of dealing with the same or similar problem in a European Union country. Indicate where it has been dealt with in the same way as you are dealing with it. You're not answering this. All the others are responding. Empty. Why? Because there is no country in the European Union in which this is happening. And I'll explain what I mean. How could the provisions in the way they are written - we have tabled an amendment so that we can support things - are contrary to the law of the European Union, since the basic rule regarding the provision of services of the 'information society' is that Member States cannot restrict their freedom to provide services. What is recommended by the 'information society' is derived from the directive. Therefore, the services provided by electronic intermediation are within the meaning of the services of the ‘Information Society’. This is the application of new technologies, platforms for the service of professional drivers and passengers, whose function and development should be promoted, not to make it difficult and boycotted. Why not let the citizen choose what is best for him? Look, let's get this straight. UBER operates in this way in the European Union. There is a good decision of the European Union on 'UBER'. It is not exactly the ‘TAXIBEAT’ itself with what it does here, using taxi drivers, not non-taxi drivers and all other examples. you have been analysed. You are deliberately confusing the two facts and that seems to be why you are basically not in line with the European Union in this area. So while we are right about 'UBER' there are all the objections that exist - and we say that we do not accept such neoliberal models as 'Uber' - we have to make it easier for passengers in ways like the 'TAXIBEAT', 'TAXIPHONE' and many similar ones that operate and serve citizens. That's why we're saying it's about attaching you to ideas. Yes, you have reached one of your answers, Minister, to the committee to say - I have the Minutes here - 'What can we do? We have the government but not power." When we say, "But why? Can't the banking institutions do that? The IMO can't do it, and so on.''', you tell us the following. "We are the government, but not power. The opposition still has power in the banking sector and elsewhere, as you know well." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Objections, which you had in committee, to say that the other services or the state cannot do so, so you legislate in this way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government incriminates healthy entrepreneurship, adopting old-fashioned practices. That is why we say that returning to the past cannot be the solution to the current problems of the country. The right of citizens, passengers to choose and evaluate the services provided cannot be called into question. Do not deny technological advances. You are now adopting electoral practices, and you also put these articles in roll-call vote, in a challenge with New Democracy - because the old trade unionist of New Democracy is with you - to see what New Democracy will do in such a game that is below the occasion. That is why you should think a lot more about this issue if you should have put it in roll-call. You choose this tactic. I think it's a regular micro-group coming from the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u316	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u317	I shall conclude, Mr President. With your practices, then, you draw handbrake on each investment by holding the country captive to the pathogens of the past. That's why we can't go on like this. It requires a change of policies at all levels and in transport with brave areas, with bold reforms. That is why we need to make areas and interventions progressively. Citizens can no longer be caught in this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the call to shorten the time. I suggest that your next colleague speak five minutes and not seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u319	From the next day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u320	I'm telling you next, Mr. Comrade. You know, I don't say that. I count it. I have had the list for five Members of Parliament who have to speak. I fear at least nine to ten colleagues will not speak at the end and I see that it is not right. In any case, I call for the five-minute and follow the direction. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, we are attempting to regulate transport in our country, in the midst of recycled provisions, bringing about more than fifteen electronic bases and registers and leaving much of the implementation of the provisions again through joint ministerial decisions in the future - my old art sieve of ministerial decisions in the future, Minister, right? - by stepping up the phenomenon and the pluralism of our country. This is the case, of course, because the government is trying to bring together heterogeneous interests without drawing up an adequate framework for a harmonised transport policy, which will contribute to the development of the country. I would also like first of all to mention that the forecasts in the new Road Traffic Code for bicycles, the age of bus drivers carrying students and safety predictions during transport of dangerous goods are the only positive ones. As far as the rest of the draft law is concerned, first of all, you are dedicating, Mr Minister, a large part of the provisions on the operation of taxis, where provisions on drivers' behaviour and the operation of the industry are recast and which are already covered by the existing legislation. Nothing really changes, it is simply a seeming satisfaction to drivers and taxi owners, in relation to the introduction of the corporate framework for the services provided to date by electronic and telephone intermediation services. However, neither are you satisfied with your promises regarding the closure of specific application companies. Secondly, it seeks a confusing and peculiar regulation, establishing a specific procedure for the introduction of the companies into the industry, both for public passenger and private passenger services. So what are you doing? You once again leave an open window for the legal operation of these application companies through the licensing process, the payment of infractions and the registration of vehicles and drivers who will receive a special licence in the Ministry of Transport's registers. Any professional who wants to work legally and take his share should have the right to enter a market and an economy that is not bound by quotas and unlimited criteria. Your mistake is that you have not been clear from the outset to the cab industry or to the brokering companies. You do not introduce a harmonized framework for everyone, and in future, two speeds may arise, with favoured on the one hand and unjustified on the other. On the one hand, you refer to taxi dishes, but on the other hand, you do not specifically define the scope of the proposed transport of the potential companies. Will they be able to get customers from anywhere? Is that what you mean? If so, why don't you say it clearly? Do you think these arrangements will put an end to competition and the conflict between cabs and companies? Obviously not. You're trying to bridge conflicting interests. In addition, you leave the room for entry into the industry to companies that do not have the transfer as an exclusive activity. So we'll have a third party involved in the future. As I have said before, it is respected that everyone is legally making the cut, but do not lie and make no good promises to everyone, by establishing a dysfunctional framework. Third, insert provisions amending the COK. Reduce the fines by 50% and increase them on the basis of the income criteria of the offenders, while abolishing the 10-day discount. So, the infringements will be punished according to each other's incomes? Apart from being unconstitutional, according to the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, it is also unfair. Tell me a little: How will that be done, Minister? The police will stop the offender, make sure he gets the fine, but won't the driver know what a fine will be imposed on him? One more thing: What will be the criteria? The income tax statements? Do you think they're objective? Anyway, this is not enough for this purpose. Only the statistics. Your legislation has a dose of idealism to make you happy at the party audience. Reduce fines, but encourage infraction, abolishing the 10-day collectivity. That's how you introduce two speed offenders. Fourthly, you will bring in a series of regulations which are both handy and fragmented, without giving the citizen quality of service. How does the payment of a contribution of 0.5% to RAEM contribute to its operation? Remove the self-personal process of dismantling and replacing plates and you define the process by post, courier, JEP, increasing administrative procedures and afflicting citizens. You charge additional procedures for the importation of used cars and you create a framework for deregulation of the operation of the CTEs on the basis of the decisions of the relevant regional councils. Finally, introduce favourable arrangements for GIAOSE, ‘ATT MEASURES’ and the PSC. In conclusion, you have complicated within a draft law, which was originally intended to curb taxi drivers, heirous, fragmented and in no way to contribute to the development of a harmonized transport policy in our country. Your own goal is to serve your party friends and to extract votes from specific groups. The New Democracy will be contrary to this bill. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency in time. Mr Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor if I hadn't had the amendment. Minister, I'm really glad you finally brought this bill and let's be a little late. Beyond that, I'm telling you that he's touching society and solving all the gray zones. A member of the province of Trikala speaks to you. In Trikala we have everything, cars, transportation, service, garage, so I'm actually bringing you some information from society. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I tabled to the draft law of the Ministry of Transport is intended to extend the work of the workshops referred to in Article 22 of Presidential Decree 78/1988. This article concerned some repair and maintenance workshops for cars, motorcycles and motorcycles. An old problem that has been perpetuating since 1988 for the extension of provisional authorisations for these workshops has been resolved. In order to understand the history of the issue, in Presidential Decree 78 1988, Article 22 contains a transitional provision for the prerequisites of the issuing of workshops which did not meet the requirements for indefinite leave and which were granted to them a certain period of validity, which has so far been extended. We are therefore referring to professionals who have served every day for many years the urban fabric with which they are neighbored. These citizens and their families are at a dead end because the state has so far chosen to prolong their problem rather than solve it. It is clear that today, thirty years later, we must finally put an end to this situation, because the fragmentation and hostage status of this practice do not lead anywhere. It is clear, indeed, that this unstable situation - today I have a leave, tomorrow I do not - created professionals many times by investing, modernising, renovating, hiring additional staff due to the need for their professional future. The specific problem we have inherited together with other previous governments is, on the one hand, high banning costs and spatial conditions make the relocation of the workshops impossible and, on the other hand, the closure of any such workshops that have left, leads to a dead end to their exploiters, many of whom are in advance of retirement. With this regulation we solve this problem by ensuring that these workshops are stopped smoothly and that they can be supplied with permission from the name of their current operators. The operating permits to be granted, unlike for an indefinite period of time, will be personal, non-transferable and therefore a limited period of validity which will end with the retirement of the professional. This will provide a definitive solution to the problem of these enterprises with a smooth phase-out of their operation without sealing their facilities and perpetuating their hostage. The policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is to strengthen the small and medium-sized enterprises and do so with all the opportunities they have. Obviously, in the midst of the economic crisis, the closure of such small and medium-sized enterprises is an act that is invalid and irresponsible. This is how we overcome the problem in the context of the principles of necessity, proportionality and good administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u325	While we are talking about, stress that there are two Greek soldiers who are hostages of the Erdogan regime, which you a few days ago, about a month and a half ago, brought him into tympanosia in Greece, which you had sat on and heard him show you inside our country and which you dared to say nothing about. It has been a journey that we have told you since that it will be a weapon in the Turkish patronage to advance the challenges. We see where the situation has arrived. It turns out your foreign policy is for the festivals too. We have reached the point at the moment that we have two Greek soldiers wearing our honored uniform with the blue-white have been arrested and the "Greek" state is completely indifferent - the "Greek" in introductorys and we stress it - when there is a government right now in power that directly emphasises that it is not interested in the national sovereign rights of our country. Tsipras agrees with Erdogan: Tsipras, when he had taken over the rule of our country, said that there are no sea borders. Now Erdogan comes out with his subjects and shout that the sea borders that exist are questioned on Turkey's side, having seen who they have to do with. It was said, then, a little while ago - from what we read and wish to be lies, but we very much fear that it will not be - that military plans were found on the cell phones of our Greek soldiers. Now, what the Turks mean by that, a God knows. So there the situation is very serious. We arrived there because for twenty days Greek politicians have handed over our soldiers. So here's a key point. You cannot only claim our rights, but you accept constant mistakes, which the Greek people do not accept. So there is a solution for children to finish and come out an hour ago, because with you, as the job goes, they will be afflicted, unfortunately too much. And we sincerely sympathize and sincerely say it only to their families. I personally think only of them and their families, the affliction these children are taking. Well, if there are some politicians wearing pants, some who are playing the Armed Forces in our country not to wear the jackets and walk around, there's a solution. The next violation by a Turkish fighter must be destroyed immediately. And if the Turkish pilot isn't killed, he'd be arrested directly and led to the dungeon. That's the only way the kids can get back. Adolescents, traitors! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We have heard a short time ago and we have seen in general the guardians of the Constitution constantly putting against the judiciary, even in the Council of State, because they have not decided in accordance with their "I want" what they would like. And so the Council of State came out - fortunately, there are also such people - and it naturally took out Phile's law, which said that children should be taught in Religiouss and taught them about Muslimism, taught them about the Jews, taught them a thousand things. Whether you like it, traitors symbols, or you don't want Greece to be a Christian Orthodox country. Get the hammer! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And so we saw the guardians of the Constitution, the Minister of Education at the moment - God would make him - go out and say yesterday in an interview with the NRA, unreservedly, that there was nothing that the CSU made a decision, we will continue to do the lessons in this way and the children will continue to do the same on the substance. That was Gabroglou's answer. And it says that it doesn't matter to S.H.E.'s decision. Well, Gabroglou, none of your opinions matter and the opinion of the Syrian Ministers and the Prime Minister on Greek citizens doesn't matter. And this proves to you a great deal with the rallying and the attitude they take toward the skeptic issue, where you are also going to betray our country and on the matter the religious issue, which is a matter of concern to you and which hurts you very much. We will not give you anything, and as long as there is Golden Dawn in the Greek Parliament, it will represent the simple Greek patriots who are out and want to tell you, but they are nowhere to find you, because you are sterile in any Chambers of Parliament, in your homes and where no one can touch you. We who are circulating in Greek society will represent the average Greek citizen. Lamoya! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And to finish, because you only give us five minutes, a letter came out a few days ago from the "Pamacedonian Unions" and the President of Parliament was misunderstood and said that these are not only the President of the Parliament and the rest of the parties had all gone out and weeped, because they are too afraid. So he said this letter that there will be Special Courts and that there will be last betrayal, and if God vindicates all Greek citizens they will be brought to prison by those who have signed all this. And the President of Parliament came out and weeped and said they had no right to say that. What are you talking about? You've taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u326	Slow down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u327	Stop it, you traitor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Colleague, it's not coffee here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u329	Stop, traitor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u330	Stop it, you traitor! Traitors! Sold!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u331	Please, call the guard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u332	Refusal of democracy. You swear democracy and parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way that the sitting will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u334	Get down, Nazis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u335	Lamoya!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u336	Get down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u337	Crazy-ass!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Xydakis, sit down! Mrs. Vaki! The sitting shall be suspended, and the Bureau shall not continue the proceedings in such excitement. We're interrupting the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u339	Are we only interrupting the meeting, Mr President? Aren't you going to say anything about what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u340	Mr Colleague, it is not possible to continue the sitting at this time. I don't allow it to continue. If it goes on, we'll get worse. Please, sit down, calm down. Better answer than your tranquility can't exist. Sit down, calm down for five minutes, and we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr. Comrade, Mr. Xydakis, I understand your anger. Look, it has only been one 24 hours since the debate in the Conference of Presidents and in the Committee on Ethics, etc., raises a regular issue of the behaviour of the Members of the Golden Dawn. There is no way this hybrid will be interrupted unless the rest of the House is calmly and democratically confronted with this story. It can't go on. I wanted it during the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u342	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u343	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, help me now. During the speech by Mr Rabbit, I wanted to interrupt when I first heard the words 'prosecutors', 'lamoya' and all the rest. These cannot be heard in Parliament. I thought the meeting would turn out even worse. I have not interrupted the sitting again. I would like to ask you to proceed with a calmer procedure, to continue with our next colleague and to see that we regulate...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, the parliamentary representatives should speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Kefaliannis, please. It could take what you're saying. Let me handle the process. And that can be done. I have this in mind, Mr. Kefaliannis. I would like to tell you that the whole picture will obviously be transferred. It already exists. I don't know what the relay process was like. The President and the Conference of Presidents will be informed. It's unbelievable the hybrid we've heard. I don't remember seeing it ever, as well as the aggressive move against Mr. Xydakis from the Step of the House. I say we calm down. The President will be notified, we will go to the Conference of Presidents to see what else we will do. Obviously, Mr Kefalayannis, in the face of this story that we have just been through, I think that we need to speak for one minute, at least to put the democratic space of this House against it. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, thank you for giving us the floor. I apologise to the House, if I have been misled. It was unbearable for me personally. I can't take all the democrats into my neck. It was unbearable for me to hear a denier of democracy devouring the Greek Parliament and the Hellenic Republic. I know the efforts made and the measures taken and the special plenary in the last few days from the Greek Parliament to protect the climate, the minimums of consensus and the rules of operation. I think that today is also intended to act, escalating to cause, to break every limit. He can't talk like that. It was inconceivable. I heard him from the monitor and I came in and I came to ask you, you had knowledge of all the situation, an end to it. Because it's transmitted, it's a public meeting, it's a plenary, we have schools, we have children, we have visitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u347	Fortunately, we haven't had a school right now! Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u348	Look. This escalation shows that the negligents of democracy, the criminal offenders and the establishment of a criminal organization, in progress, the trial with all readers and documentaries to demonstrate the action of a criminal organization, despise democracy within its temple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Xydakis, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u350	That's what I want to say and I'm closing up. Our role, apart from legislating, other than disagreeing, except compiling, is to discipline the Greek people and give a living example. The example of these people is unbearable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u351	You're right. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, it is clear that, for our part, there is also a proper and clear condemnation of the incident which we have seen before us. Unfortunately, and here I agree with my colleague Mr Xydakis, there is an escalating attitude from the Members of the Golden Dawn to provoke, and I am very afraid that if we do not take any more stringent measures, we will probably see them do some of the actions that will run away from the word. That is why I and I think the entire New Democracy party have a clear position in condemning such incidents. We are in favour of all Members who are taking such verbal attacks and I think that all the democratic wings of this House must condemn not only such behaviour, but also those who, possibly, will try to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. It is obvious that today's episode and its risk were not, unfortunately, limited to the insults, but the whole move shows us that we should be concerned. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u354	We must say that it is condemned to the conscience of the people all this position of the Golden Dawn, which has been seen as a criminal organisation. The court is still stalling, and it should be over and condemned for their actions. It is all escalating, and I believe that the debate that has taken place here in plenary yesterday evening shows its attitude, its role, and that is why it must be isolated from the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt, as the previous speakers have said, that this escalation in terms of Golden Dawn demonstrates their anti-parliamentary behaviour and proves the very fact that they have chosen is what they are supported by them as a party. The audience they address seems to be moved. We too must, while respecting Parliament's parliamentary and parliamentary procedures, isolate such tactics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. 'Before a dilemma you speak three', it turns out that it is not a political organisation, a political party. It's a criminal organization and it confirms what we said, it's not one of us. That's why it suits absolute isolation. We're not dealing with them. The Greek people should see and above all the citizens who sent them in here who sent them. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, I think that what we have said is confirmed, that the challenges will not stop because they are nourished, because that is how they communicate with society, which, however confused they are, let them see what they have to do and who they think, if they support, what solutions they will bring. Also, let the 'patriots' see - because he is no one more patriot than the other, and especially us here - the Pamacedonian and other unions who support and who play for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u359	Ladies and gentlemen, the democratic response of the whole House is, I think, the best shield in the Golden Dawn attack. Let's continue the process. I see the President of the House is here. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u360	Unfortunately, the estimates are confirmed that there is an orderly strategy of tension and divisive political function, so that this poison enters the body and the political life of the place, but also in society in the face of decisions to be taken on the stability of our region, on the stability of our country, on the stability of our country and, above all, on the re-establishment of the social fabric, which is a necessary issue, not without our country, coming out of the long-standing crisis. That's what this is about. The cries for "prosecutors, sold" and all that are reproduced by some headline forms, which are in the handkerchiefs - regardless of how many buy them, they do the same - sow this hatred to the whole people with characteristic speech and images about traitors, hangers and show this strategy of tension. This strategy for weakening should not simply be marginalised and excluded, it should be condemned with all tons and all the strength, from the whole political system of democratic and constitutional arc, without settling, without tacticalism, which they showed both in Europe and in our country which lead to, when the snake's egg is constantly produced and produced, warmen and shaped by a great risk for the country. This case cannot continue at least within the Greek Parliament. The references made earlier by the Member of Parliament must come again for debate in the Ethics Committee. However, we must be very clear that if they are - and it seems to be - they continue to be - a strategy of tension, attack, division, intolerance and a risk to international relations in the country - which are dynamised by their statements so that antibodies can be created and fueled with the most extreme forces of grey and other colorful wolves in the neighbouring country - all of this must be revealed, staggered, isolated and concentrated in the strictest way and through Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but also through public speech. That is what I think we should all do as a duty. If we don't do it here, nobody else can do it, either in isolated district courtrooms, in cities and towns, or in the street, when these features and attitudes exist. And I would like to say one last thing to you, Mr President - and I am sorry - because we have indeed said that democracy is operating in this way in teaching, deterrent, preventive and tolerant but at the same time strict. Three hours ago something happened that until the moment I told you now no one knew about it in this Chamber and could have been a saliva. That's not how we work. Unfortunately, there was an incident where a first relative of a elite strain, MP of the Golden Dawn, through here, taking her children from the nursery, in the worst way, presently very many, MP Zabeck with incredible insults, etc. This issue is closed at the Warden's level. There's gonna be a special report. Apologies for the lady. We did not even notify her husband, the chosen member of the Golden Dawn, nor did any other matter arise. She took responsibility herself. These have been recorded. The Member himself was present and said he accepted the apology. This happens every day in here, where we are protected multiples and not just by immunities, so that we can get together. What's going on outside? What's going to happen outside if the signal leaves here that it doesn't matter, say a word more? For those we used to live in 2012-2013, eighty-four criminal acts had occurred in public, and while we brought these figures back, we were told that they were not two, three, four, until suddenly a Saturday we saw the evolution on television, with the murder of Paul Physsa. We remember that. And these memories are coming back now. We cannot allow this to happen again in the country, in society, in the workplace, in schools, in the refugee and migratory centres that exist. This view, this voice, this voice of hatred, this hybrid, this humiliation, this completely conscious undermining of the country's relations so that we can lead to explosive situations and fuel the tension. It has to stop. And the beginning to stop has to be done from here, and we must all agree on this development. I would ask you first of all to apply what the Rules of Procedure say as regards what the previous speaker said. But from there on, perhaps, as the debate will be resumed here, there will also be a reference to another Rule of the Rules of Procedure concerning the collective presence - the exclusion of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. If they are unrepentant and every time we give them - and we are obliged to give them - the margin to revise - and I repeat, an incident that occurred three hours ago, precisely because there was a repentance, that is to say, there was a consultation in a context - every time, where microphones are caught, they may think that this is how they get in touch with some other extreme elements or divide other groups that are ambiguous at this stage. It's their right to think what they want. We won't tolerate it. This message I think will have to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to repeat, because earlier the circuit was closed and the retransmission of the meeting was unheard of by Greek citizens, in a particular democratic consensus, of the reaction of the whole House to the aggression of the Golden Dawn. I repeat that all parties with their representatives have unequivocally condemned this unequivocal incident and made their democratic shield against the aggression of this party against parliamentary and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I ask the floor on behalf of the Democratic Alliance to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u363	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u364	We strongly condemn this event, which, as the President of Parliament said a moment ago, is not isolated. This is a series of tramps within Parliament and outside Parliament. It is an organisation that is accused of being criminal and that is what we have to deal with here in the Greek Parliament. Democracy has ways of defending itself, and we cannot leave it defenseless. That is why we must take all the institutional measures immediately. There are ways of protecting democracy. In this context, our proposals will also be initiated within the Bureau, when they are put, and in the Conference of Presidents, in order to deal with this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u365	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Katerini High School (first section). Welcome, dear friends, to the Greek Parliament! Welcome now, that is, thank God! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights "I) The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Independent Family Violence and Adaptation of Greek Law, II) Incorporation of 2005/2014/JHA Framework Decision, as amended by Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, on the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties and III) Other provisions on the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. Mrs Kafantaris then has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. I'm at the Step after this unpleasant, splitting and - how else do I call it? - a war communiqué, I'd say, of the negligents of democracy. I also strongly condemn it, of course, by saying that Parliament, as expressed by the political forces of democracy in here, but also by the Greek people, is progressing democratically. Democracy is strong, it has weapons and it is always the winner. I'm coming to put myself in the bill. Indeed, this is a bill - cut-off, an innovative one - I would say - an innovative bill, which was structured to improve the quality of life of citizens and their optimal service. It attempts this draft law to eliminate the bad texts that make it difficult for all of us to live in the transport sector. I would say that it is a common demand for society rather than actually having transparency in the transport sector and, of course, correcting a lot - badly, I would say - that has been the case for years. Legislative interventions and regulations are being introduced, issues of maladministration, corruption and circuits are being resolved. The operational electronic platforms will, inter alia, lead to coordination, monitoring and resolution of a number of themes of the stakeholders. It is worth stressing that the draft law is the product of a publication that has been published many months ago, where there has also been an extensive consultation, a constructive dialogue. Many of the bodies' proposals have been accepted in the publication of this draft law and, of course, a constructive dialogue has also been held in the Committee on Production and Trade, where strong mechanisms of control and supervision are being established in all the grey transport areas, which we do not just say, but it is a reality and the Greek people are well aware of. Part of the draft law provides for the redefinition of passenger transport issues, provisions of the existing legislation on the operation of passenger cars are amended. The disciplinary measures imposed shall be redefined and the institutional framework relating to electronic or telephone mediation shall be laid down. At last, ladies and gentlemen, rules are in place, conditions are in place, limits are in place, and this is very important to me. The infringements are now defined and fines imposed. It stipulates that revenue from the exercise of the brokering activity is taxed under the existing legislation - I think this is very important - and that electronic registers, in which the brokering entities are registered, the reversal of brokering permits and the detection of infringements and imposition of fines and penalties provided for. A Ministerial Decision defines, inter alia, the terms and conditions for the establishment of the registry and its interconnection with the Ministry of Tourism’s registry and with other registers, the control of contract registration, the competent institutions, the procedure for the enforcement of penalties. It is defined that the seat or branch or the legitimately declared parking space of the undertaking renting the vehicle as a starting point of the lease is defined. I would therefore like to say that some have accused the Ministry that brought this draft law, that we are not in favour of innovation. But is there an innovation without compliance with rules, without transparency, without taxation and a transparent tax basis? That's a question. There are other serious issues that have to do with the categories of bikers established - which is very important - administrative fines are specified. But I will say that the bill is not collective in general, it is more pedagogical, which is why road infringements are classified as low, medium and high-risk traffic. I also come to say that the third part deals with buses and buses. In fact, we have a positive response from competent bodies and transport federations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. The fourth part includes provisions concerning vehicles and drivers relating to arrangements for the destruction of vehicle registration plates, as well as arrangements for the destruction or misuse due to natural disasters by private car IX. Also, a very important one is used cars. Control mechanisms are being introduced in order to put an end to illegal sales circuits - we will not be a cemetery of older cars - as will all the arrangements for importing cars with thorough checks, documentation etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u367	Ms. Kafantari, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u368	In conclusion, the important thing I want to say is the large part of the issue of marketing authorisations. That's where I'd say everyone knows how the system worked decades. We are aiming at measures to combat corruption and in the area of marketing licences, since everything will be done electronically or via postal services or through JEPs. Finally, one word: this bill introduces transparency, terms, limits and rules. There is really an important effort to make us a normal European state. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u369	Mr Mardas has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when some innovative regulations are introduced into the various bills, it is reasonable that we may not have the best solutions that they need. And that is also the case in various other bills that have been passed, bills that should have been put to the debate in the House years ago and come now. Therefore, these bills are moving in a positive direction and from there on, what we have to do is to check during their implementation what their weaknesses are. We have other such innovative bills that have passed, such as the second chance to be given to an honest dealer who has been bankrupt. There were various issues, various things, which could complement and make this bill more comprehensive. But this bill was put in place, which was a radical approach to that time and on the way we will see what improvements they need, as, as we have repeatedly said, the law is and is changed. I come to Rule 12, which refers to passenger transport companies, an article which reasonably brought together Members of this House. This unregulated situation, which should have been regulated for years, as these electronic platforms are nothing new, is for the first time regulated, and this arrangement is facing some reasonable criticism. In my view, Mr Minister, as I had expressed to you last time, I feel that if you were to fill in before the second paragraph of paragraph 1, instead of the word 'and' you had the word 'and', there would be an improvement in the bill. And perhaps if, in the course of the implementation of this law, it is found that some improvements are needed, here it lies with us in the Ministry, to make the necessary improvements, so that we have a more comprehensive law in case it proves that something is not working. I come to another section on fuel. In Article 70(2), there by Ministerial Decision, discrimination may be abolished between LPG stations and stations which are transporting purely LPG or even mixed LPG. Instead of the ministerial decision, there could only be an article of the law, which would reduce red tape to some extent. This, perhaps, needs to be seen again by the Ministry. Finally, I come to Article 11 of Law 3870/2010 of a law which, although I asked the question twice, mainly in PASOK, did not receive the answer I expected. Why did this law provide for removal of all fuel stations from towns, under certain conditions? We have corrected this situation and there is no longer a problem. As far as distances are concerned, stations can stay in towns under certain safety conditions. These safety requirements are defined by two Community directives and another provision of our own, which refers to the control of hydrocarbons. In addition to the control of hydrocarbons, Article 25 of Law 4439/2016 added another commitment, another protection measure, Interlock, which in an automatic way shows whether hydrocarbon has been escaping. We would call on the Ministry at the transitional period that has been given, so that this measure can be applied, that this measure can be reviewed and, in our view, it must be abolished. It is unnecessary, it is not applied anywhere in the European Union and it will be charged with the stations with EUR 3 000, 4 000 or 5 000 more, which - I repeat - we do not see it anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr Marda. My colleague Mr Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is unnecessary to repeat the clear condemnation of the New Democracy of the incident, which has taken place here. Of course, it is very good that all the wings that are part of the constitutional democratic arch have unanimously condemned this attitude. In any case, however, we should have our eyes open, because this kind of challenge, within and outside Parliament, is unfortunately going to continue, because if we can call it a party, it is actually a criminal organisation - it is contingent on such incidents. I think that all of us must stand up to those who are actually trying to harm parliamentaryism and democracy. Speaking, however, ladies and gentlemen, for parliamentarians, we must often also be typical of some things. We have denounced too many times that, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure of the House are not being observed or - if you wish - some colleagues are trying to keep it in a way of diffusion. We have denounced many times a bad practice, which was unfortunately timeless, but is still under the current government, namely that many amendments should be tabled unnecessarily with the bill, which are too late. Indeed, today, when the process had begun, two new amendments were tabled. In particular, the Ministerial Amendment was tabled with a general number of 1534 and a special 26 and the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 1535 and a special 27. As far as I can see, they were tabled today at 12.20 p.m. Once again I appeal to everyone, particularly to the government and to the future governments, that we should be absolutely formal in these procedures. For many times such behaviours from those wings of the House that want to hit Parliament find appropriate ground in behaviours which are not typical in order to proceed with this action. Of course, I have no illusion that they are not only waiting for such action. Apparently, they would've done them independently of them. But it is good to give us the first example of respecting the Rules of Procedure, respecting our colleagues and that we may have conflicts and opposite political views here, but at least we are moving in a specific context, which is laid down by the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that those of us who have given us even a little time to attend these days the meetings of both the committee and the plenary for today's debate on the bill have no doubt about this country and how it is, unfortunately, still the evil demon about what we say 'business'. I honestly wonder how many young people, people of my generation who dream of implementing an innovative business idea, in front of the clear ignorance shown by the Ministry's leadership on fundamental issues - and we saw it in the committee - such as how e-commerce, e-commerce or even electronic mediation services operate. Personally, I feel the need to express my sympathy and apologise to all these young people, who, through this debate, are even trying with enormous difficulties and adversities to keep Greece within the radar of international investors. I would also like you to know, Mr President-in-Office, that a bill such as today's bill is a flag, that is, they make a profile and give a political and ideological tone. So you know, with the bill that we are discussing today, we will go to society and you and you will be accountable for our attitude and vote today. Unfortunately, you will be addressing a close trade union leadership, which is all it is interested to do is to reinstate itself to buy out today's bill by manipulating a few dozen votes, while we, Minister, are going to address the majority of drivers and taxi owners, the eight thousand at the moment trying to upgrade the transport project and offer through various electronic platforms and 1 million also users, who are using these platforms every day. You, Minister, will be with the syndicate good, while we will be with the common good. Then I think we will be able to count politically on our powers. On the substance of the matter now, you are claiming that you are for the first time laying down rules in the regulation of the market in brokering services. The point is, how are you going to do that? You are, in fact, distorting the logic of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, with which companies like UBER, as mentioned in the plenary debate, are not an electronic broker but a transport provider. Why are you twisting it? Because the judgment of the European Court of Justice, Minister, refers to a very specific case, to the use of UBER by private non-professional drivers. Is there such a thing, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece? The answer is, no. In Greece, with the exception of HSF drivers, the only ones who can carry out a transport operation are the tourist agencies and the car rental offices. I mean, we're talking about a completely different market. How do you intercept the cab work? It is quite simply the intercept when this minimum rental period of three hours is not respected by these offices. As spokesmen from New Democracy quite rightly said, you yourself as SYRIZA and Independent Greeks were the ones who reduced the minimum duration from six hours to three, in fact by helping to intercept transport work, which you are now coming to say is correcting it. Therefore, the question of protection is to intensify on-the-spot checks on the basis of the existing institutional framework. I am referring, Minister, to the same institutional framework that the government made use of communication a few days ago to capture ten drivers not of the 'UBER', as was falsely disseminated, but of car rental agencies. Will someone ask: What does UBER have to do with all this? The answer is: Immediately none. UBER does not appear anywhere, ladies and gentlemen. What UBER does is perform an intermediation role by concluding agreements with the companies owned by cars. The drivers do not actually have a contract with UBER. Let me stress once again, because the New Democracy in this has a crystal-clear position, that it is quite different to what 'UBER' does, and it is quite different to what 'TAXIBEAT' does. However, it is reasonable to wonder what profit there is and how the work of taxi is really protected from the conversion of "UBER" by a company - brokering service to a transport company. I ask you directly, Minister: How will it change in practice, even with the bill, the operation of the 'UBER', when the contract is concluded between customers and the rental agencies? How is this related to the protection of taxi drivers against breach of the minimum duration of rental? What prevents the ‘UBER’ from continuing to operate in practice exclusively as an electronic mediation platform? In the end, how can you check the transport operation and impose sanctions on a company that has no car in its possession or any driver in relation to a dependent labour? Of course, you must not give these answers to us. You must give them to thousands of drivers and taxi owners, who are currently wondering and having reasonable questions. And I think that with this bill you too understand that, instead of actually protecting the transport work of these owners and taxi drivers, you are actually continuing to move into a grey zone and do not adopt anything substantial in relation to 'UBER'. And yet, if UBER does not actually touch it at all, the arrangements that you enter for companies such as "TAXIBEAT" in fact do very much alter its way of operation and, in fact, drive it to an extinction. And here, of course, once again the ruling of the European Court of Justice is distorted, which - I repeat - only refers to non-professional taxi drivers - and if I am wrong, Mr Minister, you can correct me - while TAXIBEAT is a platform in which professional taxi drivers are used. I say this because the taxi market first exists without, but also with, the 'TAXIBEAT'. Secondly, ‘TAXIBEAT’ is linked exclusively, as I have already said, to professional drivers and customers and, thirdly, does not affect the level of the cost cost, which is paid in full by the customer to the provider, i.e. to the taxi driver. Here, of course, what does one need to first? That throughout Europe is how the relevant mediation platforms operate? That this provision of Article 12, in the opinion of many legal persons, will be brought before the European Court of Justice? I would ask you, Minister: if, then, Beat is designated as a transporter, who will be responsible for the transport operation? The free trader, the CCS driver, or the 'BEAT'? Who will determine the amount of the customer pays? The ‘BEAT’ or the State? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Who will determine the specification of the vehicles? The ‘BEAT’ or the State? What will the ETS driver have to do with 'BEAT'? Can a freelance professional, for example, have a working relationship with 'BEAT' and why would he do so? To what will the consequences of breaching the obligations of the CIRR drivers referred to in Article 1 of that draft law apply? In the ‘BEAT’ or in the driver? I think they are questions that are reasonable, which, unfortunately, seem to have not been dealt with by the bill. And you have not been involved, because your objective is the specific one, which I will tell you immediately: By the arrangements you enter, a company such as 'BEAT', if it is classified as a transport service provider has in fact two alternatives: either it becomes a taxi cooperative that may also have one of its own brokering platforms, or it closes its branch in Greece because there will be no investment interest in the domestic market. But if you and the close trade union, which has shaped this bill, it is good to say it directly. Do not attempt indirectly with these arrangements to pass it. And it's good to stop hiding behind stories about savages, implied tax evasion and offshore, which I think expose the Ministry's leadership irreversibly. I conclude with a brief reference to the new Road Traffic Code. Although there are also positive regulations and provisions, unfortunately, although you have tried to correct them by means of legislation, you do not actually do anything about it. The committee of Parliament comes in and tells you that you are moving on an anti-constitutional path, because the way you have introduced this provision is, in fact, contrary to specific provisions of the Constitution. You have brought in a new regulation, in essence, a legislative improvement, which I very much fear, Mr Minister, that she will also be in any court. It's unconstitutional and we tell you directly. Our legal culture not only in recent decades, but in recent centuries, has won one thing: that the same penalty is always imposed for the same offence, regardless of the specific economic characteristics that the perpetrator may have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Kefaliannis, please complete, because many of your colleagues will be left without talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u374	I shall conclude, Mr President. If in other bills time is 12 minutes for the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u375	Yes, but we limited the time to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u376	For the equality of weapons, Mr President, please let me finish. So, apart from the unconstitutionality of the provision, Mr Minister, there are many practical issues which our rapporteur and colleagues of course have raised from the New Democracy, such as how this provision will be implemented in practice. We invite you to reconsider. I think that you should withdraw it, because any Greek citizen has brought an action against the order, I am sure he will be vindicated. I conclude by saying that some positive regulations are indeed introduced with regard to the new Road Traffic Code. Unfortunately, however, from the whole debate, what will remain the negative, which is why we too, as we have said to you with our rapporteur, are negative, because in fact what you are doing is to close your eyes to minority trade unions and, in terms of the large majority of taxi drivers and owners, not to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u377	My colleague, Mr Katsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to condemn what happened in the Greek Parliament and the disgraceful behaviour of the neo-nazi organization's representatives, who are not honoring anyone. I think that all citizens and democratic forces in Parliament must stand up against walls and stature and draw up an important 'there!' in order to avoid such practices in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is coming to order pending for many years in the transport sector. It aims to create a healthy landscape, with full respect for real professionals, to lay down transparency rules in the new technologies in the transport sector, while at the same time, there are provisions that modernise the operating framework, but also promote road safety. The draft law that we have before us is a product of consultation and exhaustive dialogue with all the bodies, which were most positively placed in the committees. And allow me here a parentheses. A press release from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Taxi and Markets has come in my possession - and I think I should put it in the Minutes, because New Democracy claims that automobile operators who participate in the TAXIBEAT intermediation company are opposed to the bill - which states explicitly that there is not one hundred and eighty taxi clubs in the country nor any of the eighty five radio-taxi associations nor a simple automobile that is not at the side of the federation or is not in agreement with the management processes in this battle with the unfair competition that the industry gives before 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT'. I therefore think that the New Democracy against this communication should be placed and told us exactly what it means and how the professional automobiles who have a contract with 'TAXIBEAT' are opposed to the bill. I'm presenting the press release in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is also a train example of this draft law on how we understand healthy competition, sustainable entrepreneurship and transport evolution and how opposition is placed on these issues. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are two different worlds, two clear dividing lines. We are clearing up something because it is deliberately confusing for Articles 12 and 13: we do not abolish UBER or the 'TAXIBEAT' or any other electronic brokering company. Before the final bill comes out in consultation, a whole propaganda mechanism with channels, forms, but also the multinationals themselves, and especially with the support of their political body, the New Democracy, have been prosecuting new technologies, prosecuting innovative businesses, modernising applications and so on. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It seems to be the big advertising packages and lobbying of companies that want to do whatever they want in a market to increase their profits. So what do we do? We simply regulate and set clean rules in a well-established landscape, which with many loopholes in existing laws destroys the existing legislation governing transport. What happened to this day? Instead of having mediation as the main economic activity, in other words finding customers for taxi drivers, which would be legitimate and do so by many companies, lowering race prices, creating unfair competition. How? They simply taxed, paid no income tax francs in the country and, in the midst of capital control, paid "black" money as refunds or subsidies to the contracted taxi drivers to have lower prices. In fact, as proved in committees, this money came from tax havens. Indeed, in this case, the ‘TAXIBEAT’ also has some offshore on its blog, which, according to press releases from the Sunday newspaper, ‘New PAGE’, which are still being disproved by the New Democracy, is one of ‘Endeavor Greece’. And we ask: Does he participate in the 'Endeavor' of a member of the Mitsotakis family, yes or no? It's a major moral and political issue, yes or no? It's for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u379	You're messing with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u380	What are we watching for the entire previous period? A New Democracy that many of its officials have come out open not only to support "UBER", but in fact to welcome a daring tax evasion system that directly hits competition with unfair practices and leads thousands of professional drivers and taxi owners to unemployment and despair. But we're making equal rules for everyone. All companies will be taxed in Greece under Greek laws, will have their seat and will be licensed in Greece, will give another proof to the customer and another to the car manufacturer if they make a simple mediation. If they do transport with private passenger rental, they will also be subject to additional transparency rules. We don't kick them out, they're just not going to be unconscious unless a condition to try in our country is to do whatever they like. I am sorry, but even European legislation allows them to do so, as much as lobbying and to do with the youth of the European People's Party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one last thing, as far as these companies are concerned: The new digital platforms of all kinds are a great advance in technology and an important tool, but behind the cheese there is a colossal light with great economic interests. It concerns the question of managing sensitive personal data by digital companies of the voluntary or non-writing of citizens, with regard to preferences, consumer habits, political views and others, and how they can be sold to companies or individuals to manipulate masses. Recently - and timely - FACEBOOK was accused of leaking personal data of 50 million users in Cambridge Analytica, ignorant of users. It is therefore checked that he collected and processed user data such as like, friends, innocent quiz and others, and in collaboration with behavioral scientists he bombed them in their timeline with targeted political messages and ads.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I shall end. The scandal is being investigated by the US authorities, because it might have affected the American elections, and similar investigations are taking place in England and the European Union. The above phenomenon is called 'data mining' and is the hidden goodwill of these digital applications and their great source of revenue. As you can see, there is enormous risks to democracy and freedom in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, but it also raises ethical issues in the field of science. The political forces must bend on this matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u383	Mr Colleague, there are fifteen of your colleagues who will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u384	I shall end, Mr President, by wishing to make a point because of the short term in the Minister. Minister, with regard to Article 92, I would like to tell you that my opinion is, after a letter sent by the Ministry's Panhellenic Federation of Workers' Unions, to proceed with a regulation - in my opinion, legislative or legislative - so that you may maintain any personal difference in accordance with the provisions of the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Comrade, go to eight minutes. I would ask the Bureau to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u386	...and have the same employment relationship. Why are people asking for this? Because the Members of Parliament from the region who have suffered natural disasters know that these services will not be provided if they receive the transfer and transfer to these services but the personal difference is cut off, the one they have already taken in the previous place. I think you should see this with grace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, there are three parliamentary representatives left with whom we will conclude. The other colleagues will not speak. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece denounces in the most unequivocal way and condemns the unacceptable and provocative action of the representative of the criminal and Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn, the Browser, a short time ago. That is why, in our view, even greater determination is needed on the part of the working people's movement to isolate this criminal organisation. As a Communist Party of Greece we demand that the trial procedure be accelerated, through which the condemnation of crimes will proceed, but also the criminal activity of this organisation. Of course, in today's bill we have noticed something, which we see in almost all the bills. The government and other opposition parties are disagreeing, but at a time when they agree on strategic choices. That is exactly what is happening in the transport sector. The Government, but also the New Democracy and the PASOK, agree, for example, on European policy on liberalisation of the transport sector. This is a liberation, which results in less and less entrepreneurial groups concentrating on economic activity and moving towards privatization of public or state enterprises. From this point of view, in terms of both passenger and freight transport, this is a liberation which, at the same time, leads to the violent displacement of tens of thousands of self-employed and professionals from the space and from the industry. That is exactly what today's bill is about. It does not reverse the philosophy of market liberalisation. In other words, the current government in the transport sector is also legislating on behalf of monopolies and businesses. Any differences between the Government and the other opposition parties are on individual issues that do not raise this policy and cannot raise the painful consequences that the self-employed, for example, will suffer in the sector from the deterioration of the work provided, in terms of popular strata and the family. From this point of view, if something is confirmed in the current conditions of the 21st century, Minister, it is the enormous supremacy of the socialist system, the socialism we have known in the transport sector, where an expensive single state transport operator was responsible for and planned the whole transport project and the complementary role of the various types of undertakings involved in transport, whether it was urban transport, whether it was transport by rail or freight. This, of course, has led to the very best service provided, to the satisfaction of the needs for cheap transport for people's families, with the safety of the transported, with environmental protection and a huge savings. On the contrary, what we see in capitalism is really a waste of resources, when exactly the various modes of transport are operating between them competitively, not complementaryly, but competitively. This actually leads to a waste of resources and an effort to displace and gain more and more of the pie. This means that the transport sector, which is at the expense of the people's family, will become even more commercialised and that it will be possible to satisfy the people's needs in the transport sector and, of course, to increase the intensification of work for workers in the sector. It is no coincidence that one of the key issues concerning drivers, for example, in the transport sector is the huge intensification of their work. They work endless hours, without collective agreements, without fixed hours, without a high wage, with a deterioration of heavy and unhealthy jobs. This, of course, has a significant impact on the safety of the workers themselves, but also on the people's strata and families. In fact, you are getting to the point with today's provisions that you should even increase the retirement thresholds for drivers and take them up to sixty - seven years. In other words, you think they have the necessary reflexes and can safely carry out the transport work they undertake. In fact, you are getting to the point not only to intensify working conditions even further, but also to exploit an influential fleet, enabling them to increase the age limits of the buses used for the transport project. Is that what it's worth? Who's he serving? Does it satisfy the needs for safe transport? Does it serve the environment and its protection? It is nothing but in this direction. On the other hand, in the name of limiting public resources, you have funds available to meet the needs of the monopolistic groups, financing business investment, financing military expenditure which serves imperialist organisations and designs, such as NATO. Secondly, the basic point is that through this process, and not only in the transport sector, the process is speeding up with articles and amendments to the public-private partnership. In other words, the public sector is transformed into a holder, in substance, to support the business activity of a number of business groups active in various sectors. The example of waste management in the Peloponnese is characteristic. But this philosophy is also reflected in a number of other articles, which facilitate even more the composition of the state with business groups and lead to even deeper commercialisation of people's needs. In this direction, articles relating, for example, to the Civil Aviation Service are also reflected. On the substance, you are facilitating through the provision of the various infrastructures to allow the development of the PSO's business, in cooperation and in conjunction with enterprises active in the sector, with private monopolistic groups active in the sector. This results in them being much easier to put their hands on the infrastructures, which have been shaped by the Greek people's money, very low, and at the same time without guaranteeing their jobs, employment relations and working conditions, because precisely we will see a deterioration in the jobs of the workers. Finally, we would like to note, Minister, the provisions relating to the amendment to the Syrian Shipyard. On the substance here, what we want to denounce as a JRC is that you are about to hand over the Syrian Shipyard to the US interests, not to develop business, but to change to a new US-type Souda base, where on substance it will serve the portrayal of the sixth fleet. Already American actors visit the island daily, express gratitude for the security measures taken on the island, which can serve both the port and the shipyard. At the same time, the visits of the sixth fleet to the area are being made to inspect the facilities of the Neorio Shipyard, which will essentially be the business arm in the maintenance of the sixth fleet, the actions of which it has in the Eastern Mediterranean, which, also under the responsibility of the Greek Government, upgrades the role of the American factor and the natomans, even more actively participated by the Greek Government in these imperialist plans. From this point of view, not only will there be no growth for the benefit of the people, but, on the contrary, the dangers to territorial integrity and sovereign rights are now on the agenda - and with Turkey's aggression - on the agenda. That is why there is a great need, a great demand, today for the vigilance of the people in resisting precisely the implementation of these imperialist plans, which, within this framework, are part of the tradition of the Syrian Shipyards in the American imperialist interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the images that took place within the Chamber of Parliament an hour and a half ago are shameful images. The Centro Association strongly condemns such phenomena. I will start by making a reference to Greek reality to talk about the bill, in fact we live and experience. Road education, ladies and gentlemen, does not exist for Greek citizens. The infrastructure is incomplete. Roads safe don't exist. Even nowadays, labelling in too many areas is inadequate to zero. Venzina store is legally installed in apartments. Bicycles exist only in four Greek cities, when they have filled all of Europe. The fleet of our cars, because of the crisis, is obsolete. In Greek reality - I've said this before from the Step - Greek citizens believe that the big fish eats the little one, who has barbas in the Koroni has the most chance of surviving and the most powerful one who wins is the most powerful, the networked one. We are in the eighth memorial year, having allowed many opportunities to be lost and led to many classes of fellow citizens in poverty. The inadequacy of the country's political staff, as a whole, to vision, design and implement, is seen by the number of legislation that we have adopted, in the name of the Greek people, for the possibility of exiting the crisis. Without the responsibility of today's Minister for Transport, for which there is a lack of legislation, we now have a bill in front of us that seeks to provide solutions, with its regulations, to issues that Greek legislation has not provided for, whether intentionally or without. However, any effort by the Minister is downgraded by more than two hundred ministerial decisions that are missing for its full implementation. One key reason why the Centroon Union is voting 'at present' in this bill is that. Another key reason, which I would like to mention, is why our fellow citizens have sent us to this Chamber, and that is why we should give answers, simple, clear and clear answers. Give answers to the big, difficult, hard questions, in the interest and good of everyone. In short, our fellow citizens trust us to give answers which directly and drastically affect their everyday lives, their lives, the future of their children. A good example is Article 30. In our vote, on this particular article, we are asking, at the same time, whether there should be a lower speed limit on the Greek motorways. And if we consider that 'yes', then what should be this shorter speed, with which, under the law, anyone who comes out on the highways? The national Parliament, that is, we are answering today that 'yes' must also have a lower speed limit on Greek highways and that is seventy miles an hour. And that seems to be the right thing to do. What concerns me, however, is still unanswered even now is whether and when this information will reach the citizens. How many drivers will know that in a month, after a month today? Will anyone on the Greek street know that? So I ask everyone who intends to vote on Article 30, including I am, is there any provision in this bill, which ensures that drivers are informed and do not know about it? Ladies and gentlemen, we have to ask ourselves the difficult questions and not the easy ones. Do we really, as a Parliament, have the share of responsibility for informing our fellow citizens? And I am not only talking about Article 30 and today's bill, but about every bill that we have passed in this Chamber. Have we finally given ourselves the right to indiscriminately blame us for having chosen us as representatives of the domestic political system, to assign this responsibility, the responsibility for information, always to Greek citizens? I recognise that there is indeed the responsibility of each individual citizen to be informed. But it's not entirely his responsibility. It is ours too, it is the government, but also the famous fourth power, the media. For what we vote in here, is the citizen objectively informed out there? It's not a job, of course, to update justice. Justice must apply the laws we make. And here I personally identify the difficult questions, those which we systematically avoid answering in this Chamber, but now employ all our fellow citizens, because we are refusing to give a clear answer. Who's to blame? The Prime Minister, the legislator or the judge? Who's to blame? The government, the House or the courts? Who is to blame that the phrases "little him" and "if I had a gun, I would throw him, we'll end" also have a transport time when they are publicly executed? Is it the one who wrote and suggested the laws? Is it the one who voted the laws? Or is it the one applying the laws? And instead of giving answers, we have chosen to maintain the image that there is a conflict between the country's civil servants and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to hide behind the right to criticise court decisions as ordinary citizens, when we have not taken responsibility as MPs first, to answer who is to blame. That is what citizens are asking themselves today. And as much as we blame, we lawmakers and judges, who do not apply our laws and journalists, who do not inform of our laws, are to blame. See how we legislate. We do it by exchanging responsibilities. See under which regime we are legislating. We do it in the middle of memorials. See how often what we are voting on, in this Chamber, is considered unconstitutional. See how often we legislate remain inapplicable, how easily our designs fall apart, how quickly the solutions we are proposing prove unsustainable. It proves this by accepting the need to legislate on today. You know that proves respect for pregnant women, blind men and young people. Ladies and gentlemen, finally see what questions we have answered. Is ‘BEAT’ the same as ‘UBER’? Of course not. As we have all assured the Greek citizens, it is another thing 'BEAT' and another thing 'UBER'. That is what we have, at least, managed to make it clear in this Chamber, as we have done to clarify how different things are the travellers' syndicate. We have made this clear to citizens. What we are doing to ensure that they eventually pay their taxes and offer the services we need, we have not said too much. For all those who have to pay. We have not said the same thing about bicycles and cyclists. Will cyclists be safer tomorrow on the streets in Greece? Who can guarantee this, with the provision we are voting on today, that they will be safer, but also to guarantee it, has anyone wondered what value our guarantees have? Let's ask the micronomists to tell us what a guarantee the Greek government means, to tell us what can happen to them by showing confidence in the Greek public. We must remember what happened to these people and listen with great care to their views. Their view is a barometer, you know, for growth. If we do not listen to these people admit to the public and confirm that, yes, growth has returned to this country, we cannot expect to be credible, making me quite a reason for the clear exit from the memoranda. We cannot talk about reform, development and exit from the memoranda while micro-automators remain forgotten by the political system. That day that we will legislate on the restoration of micronomists could be seen as the day we managed to reverse the image of our weak country, whose representatives are "eaten" among themselves and which we finally began to show our strength as united Greece, claiming and taking on the role that we deserve as leader in the Balkans. The effort to restore the credibility of the country is under way by the citizens of that country. Every law we are voting on should strengthen the confidence of the Greeks in the democratic institutions. That is why I have to admit that many of the self-evident things contained in the courage - in my personal opinion - of the Minister's legislative initiative were missing from our country. Definitely the bill gives handles. The Centro Association will vote'residents' because the bill simply includes two hundred and fifty ministerial decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Katerini Gymnasium (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I feel the need before colleagues in this House to say a thought, now that we are calmer, about the sad and worrying episode with the Golden Dawn. I would like to add my own assessment that the provoked episode is not an isolated one, it is not an accident, but it is part of a constructed and carefully followed strategy of low intensity from Golden Dawn, as the trial is evolving, involving murders and the establishment of a criminal organisation. In this great trial, testimonial testimonies have been completed with extremely great interest and criminal and political and the court is now following the discussion of the body of very strong written, audio and audiovisual documents. As elected representatives of the Greek people, as bodies with a heavy legacy of the many phases of Greek democracy in two centuries and of the constitutional states, as the last bodies in 2018 of the Third Hellenic Republic, as established in 1974 and continues unreservedly to date, we must give a signal to the younger generations and to those who are following us in this historic adventure that democracy can tolerate, include, compose, embrace, grieve, forgive, forgive, but never forgive the deniests of democracy, the hybrids of the democratic opinion of the Greek people and the purists of the historical memory. We will not allow anyone to turn the Hellenic Republic of 2018 into a republic of Bajmar in 1933. They then expect all the political forces of the constitutional arch to participate in a debate on how we will not only exhaust the limits of the Rules of Procedure of the House, but how we may be convening to strengthen Parliament's Rules of Procedure, if necessary with a constitutional review. It is a debate that is much more urgent than we imagine. These episodes won't stop here. These people, the deniers of democracy, will not hesitate to use any means and no political field from what is being opened before us, whether in the big national issues or in the big foreign policy issues, to make their own propaganda. With regard to the bill under discussion, the debate focused mainly on the innovative platforms which are introduced into transport services. There I think the bill, in some ways, makes a supervisory regulator umbrella and adapts to what is happening in the transport market and in Greek society. We also understand in this Chamber that international and domestic trade have been transformed in the years that have passed, not only with the entry of digital technologies and the digital platform, but in some areas with their sovereignty. There is no Greek citizen who, by alpha or beta way, has not used the services of global international collosses, such as ebay and paypal, who have changed international trade in recent years. There is no Greek citizen who to some extent has not used the services from platforms such as "Skroutz.gr", who changed the retail trade or "Viva.gr", which changed the trade of many services, from play tickets to ferry and air tickets. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What the state is called upon to do to these innovative trade services is to speed up, understand the mechanisms and impose rules to protect the citizen and protect the legitimate, clean competition, by setting rules. Another concern is to identify, which is not very easy, the ways in which many large companies, particularly those who have an international basis, find ways to avoid tax. It is a matter that concerns both the committee in the European Union and the European Parliament. It's not that easy. However, this must be our first concern, how the wealth produced and the value added produced in a place to pay the legal tax to the place where the turnover is made and where the sale takes place. That is certainly where we have to follow international developments, but we too have to be constantly vigilant. For the UBER platform, we already have the reaction to many foreign countries, from the United States to the European capitals and countries with which we are together in the Union. I think that all the forces in this Parliament have been recognised in our own legislation that they are in line with the predicted and reciprocated by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Similar practices we are called upon to follow in line with the European Union on another "AIRBNB" platform, which concerns Greek tourism and the Greek economy very strongly. From there on, I think that even the differences and objections heard by the opposition are in a reasonable direction, but they do not fall short of the provisions of the legislation. I think we are in a big change anyway of trade, in which we cannot ignore new habits and new lifestyles with smart phones and continuous networking in both the household and every individual citizen. We must be close, we must keep up and adapt our legislation. I would like to say, as far as the Road Traffic Code and the arrangements for rentals are concerned, even though many small businessmen will protest and have some right, the regulation for so-called 'pigs', the three-cyclical vehicles and the inconsistent use and rental of tourist sites were required and this law comes to put a class. Those from tourist prefectures, from tourist areas know very well that the uncomplicated rental of vehicles to people who do not even have the knowledge or certification causes hundreds of millions each year. The health centers on the islands of Cyclades and Crete are full of future handicapped each year. This does not honor Greek tourism, Greek legislation, Greek legal order, or Greek entrepreneurship. You can't do business by playing with someone else's life, putting him at risk and risk that he probably doesn't know him. A number of things have been said about an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. I think there are a lot of substantial changes in the company's waste contract in the Peloponnese. The contract, which will be invited to sign the Greek State soon, is not the same as the original one. Many substantial changes have been made for the benefit of local communities, for the benefit of the municipalities and for the benefit of the Peloponnese as a whole, which has been shaken for a decade by uncontrolled disposal of waste. That's all there is. I think at some other time they could say it in detail. What I would like to say - and to close - is that we have a lesson from today's sitting. It is a meeting with all the grievances, tensions and controversies of a formal meeting, perhaps with some more peaks. However, when the fact, darkness, refusal, fascism invade this Chamber, we all understand what the common purpose is, what common defence areas are and what unites us on a minimum basis, at least, and what makes us defend. It is the mandate, the vote and the expectation of the Greek people, the Greek citizens who are watching us. It is our obligation to defend the prestige, credibility and daring of Greek democracy after eight years of great economic and social suffering, after a great historical adventure. We are facing major historical challenges, major geopolitical unrest and a major identity crisis. Let's start from the last, this self-confidence crisis, the identity crisis, the melancholy of democracy. It is our duty to begin by giving faith, hope, self-confidence and power to the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u393	We will now give the floor to Mr Kasapidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u395	For the denomination? He was filed a while ago. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u396	For the record, Mr. President. We are calling for a roll-call vote - the paper has already come - in Amendment No 1527/21, and the main reason, which has been developed in Mr Constantinople's reasoning, is to see in here who remains fixed at the positions which have been taken over the last few years by the groups and who are not. So the roll-call vote is in Amendment No 1527/21.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u397	It's already been filed, as I started to say, Mr. Theocharopoulos. You just wanted to say that, so that the position of Democratic Incorporation will be publicly recorded. It has been tabled, it is in the Bureau's view and your request for a roll-call vote is yours. We will now give the floor to Mr Kasapidis and perhaps to two other speakers. I'm telling you, if we're gonna get together, so there won't be any questions. Obviously there was understanding that after the end of the circle of parliamentary representatives, the Minister would have had the floor to close. At the moment some legislative improvements are being made by the Minister, so it will be extended by the time or time, if you like, of the roll-call vote. We shall therefore give the floor to those Members of Parliament who are able to give the floor in this time and will at some point take the floor when the Minister for Legislative Improvements comes in order to place himself. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] What can we do? How else can we handle it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u399	To give the floor to Mr. Kasapidis and to give you the floor, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u400	I only need ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u401	If Mr. Kasapidis permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u402	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u403	Good. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u404	It has been announced for too long that the vote will start at 7 o'clock. This results in a number of colleagues, about fifteen, actually not taking the floor. We do not disagree with one or two speakers, but we cannot derogate from what the majority of the House has agreed, even though many of us disagreed with this process. But at least what has been announced by the Bureau, and I say that because you are a member of the Bureau, the Bureau is united, it should be respected, regardless of whether we disagreed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As to the unconstitutionality of the bill, Mr Minister, the Scientific Service of the Parliament has been analysed by the previous speakers. On this bill, it is a heavy bureaucratic, heavy intervention bill. This is simply seen by the number of ministerial decisions that go beyond two hundred and by the number of joint ministerial decisions, about thirty. It is very difficult to implement such a draft law, but it also gives the signal of the approach you have and the spirit that you want to have a state supervision and State intervention in an area that you could have by means of a framework law to describe the boundaries beyond which some actions would be banned and within this institutional framework you should have rules for the proper functioning of this market for the benefit of clearly professionals, much more of the citizens. Finally, another remark I would like to raise, to prevent the time that has been limited, is that while in the run-up to the election you broke your clothes on the issues of 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT', now you come and legislate them and you put them on the same side, considering them to be something objective and the same with regard to existing professionals. However, Minister, I would like to point out - and that is why I asked to speak in the bill - some shortcomings, which could be incorporated into this bill and I think it is a lost opportunity, one of the many missed opportunities, on issues that we could have a common component. And I'm explaining what I mean. The Road Traffic Code you are negotiating within the bill is the regulation, if you like, of the good operation of drivers and pedestrians. Fatal accidents in the country caused by car accidents are the third cause of death in our country and is the third main parameter in demographics, after birth and migration. So on this issue, which mainly concerns the education of Greek citizens, pedestrians or drivers, we do not see anything tangible. And I say that an opportunity has been lost because you could activate the whole House, after you have activated the entire government with all the co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Development, as a matter of national priority, to reduce fatal accidents until they have been eliminated. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case and I would like to set out some parameters which may be of a subsequent draft law, perhaps some amendments, could be approached. And what do I mean? To establish within the Ministry of Education the course of road education, so that small ages are aware of the dangers and rules to be observed by young drivers from this young age. Also, our country is a tourist country, with an unparalleled natural environment. Road behaviour is not limited to the challenge of accidents, Minister. It certainly refers to the image, which we give to the roads in our country, and especially to the period of tourism, where most roads are found in trash, and that is based on drivers' behaviour. We could also raise another dimension through the issues of the Road Traffic Code, which also concerns the presence of cars on the roads, by introducing innovative technologies in traffic and transport, particularly in tourist areas, by adopting 'green technologies', which is a great deal of talk. It seems, however, that our homeland is still at the forefront of developments. I'll tell you what I mean, Minister, and I'm making a proposal on this. There was a program once for St. Stratis to become the green island. Among other things, transport and transportation, in particular tour cars, was foreseen by electric batteries, focusing on electricity generation, which would be charged by renewable sources. That could be, Minister, to activate it - it is a ready plan - with a provision in this bill. Unfortunately, this opportunity has also been lost. However, there is this proposal, which could also trigger the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Culture. Because it is a cultural indicator, energy savings, green transport, lower carbon dioxide emissions. It is, if you like, a green certificate in our tourism, which also gives another picture of the country. Finally, I would also like to refer to the conclusions of the Standing Committee on Road Safety. It is this issue that our committee has issued, which, with the President, Mr Ursouzides, is doing a very good job and you could incorporate them into this bill and have you had prepared solutions, which we would vote in favour and we would also have a consensual, if you would like, on key issues which were discussed and raised in the roll-call, we did not see in this bill. For these reasons, Mr Minister, I believe that we have lost another great opportunity to correct a problem in the country, which is social and a national scourge. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u407	We shall now give the floor to Mr Spirtzi to table the legislative improvements. Minister, please be brief as soon as possible. I'll give the floor later to Mr. Cameroon. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't shout, please. I call on only five to manage a situation in which I do not know what and how it was decided beforehand. Listen to me. Does the Minister have to submit these legislative improvements at the moment, yes or no? Yeah. These legislative improvements must be shared in this House, incorporated after corrections obviously into the 'innard', which will be distributed to you and which requires some time. So the solutions were two: Or to extend the meeting by taking advantage of the list of speakers who can speak or interrupt. So decide which one you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u408	It has been decided in plenary. Again to make a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u409	Leave that, Mr. Tragakis. I put this issue in plenary. Do you want to interrupt? We'd be happy to interrupt. Do you want us to take advantage of the time to prepare the services with the so-called 'innum', in which the legislative improvements will also be incorporated, which the Minister will state immediately and to give the floor to Members or to interrupt? I'm listening. As far as I can see, you agree with the proposal from the Bureau. Good. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u410	There are three legislative improvements, Mr President. One is from a recommendation from both the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence and the New Democracy. It is about Article 88 - I will develop it after my position - on the Civil Aviation Service. The words ‘after assent of the Housing Committee referred to in Article 9 of Law 3130/2003’ shall be inserted. Because obviously we have nothing to fear. The second legislative improvement relates to Article 47. The words ‘or legal’ shall be inserted next to the word ‘natural’. And the third legislative improvement relates to Article 92. It's the one that was tabled by the Member, Mr. Katsey. After the words ‘and the wage step it holds’, the words ‘and the maintenance of any personal dispute, in accordance with Article 2(5) of Law 4440/2016’ shall be added. And after the words ‘with the same working relationship’, the words ‘and maintenance of any personal dispute, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(5) of Law 4440/2016’ shall be added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u411	I would ask that the above-mentioned legislative improvements be distributed. Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, although we are tired, I will briefly say a few words. This bill is certainly a step forward in modernising. It is a reform step - and I would say - and why it provides for the creation of a platform that operates electronically and electronically, the authorisations will be given to those carrying out a transport operation and electronically controlled. And it is very positive - and we thank you, Minister - that you have accepted the amendment we have tabled, so that there can be a minimum rental in the private cars, which are carrying out a work with a driver. Because this is a measure that closes roads with regard to tax evasion and the intercept of work of other entrepreneurs. And you have shown with this your sensitivity to the functioning of parliamentaryism. It was also positive that you heard people's sensations and anxiety regarding the functioning of the quadruples. Not that you are not right, of course, but you gave a month of room for consultation and regulatory provisions. This also shows that you respect parliamentarianism. Colleagues and colleagues, however, what did we hear today? We have heard a general disdain from the Opposition, both from the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance. They also accused this bill of sluggishness, but also more generally accused the government of sluggishness with regard to the legislature. Who's blaming us for clandestine? To enthusiastize their achievements and how drunkly they faced various problems in the past period. What should we talk about? For the port of Piraeus, who had drawn a line and granted it all without seeing what it contained? Till roads contained, public buildings, shipyards. For the Greek, who had given it all and had to negotiate a liberation of the beach, to increase green, to limit construction, to liberate the inhabitants of the green area? For airports, which had agreed and even granted airspace control, and have we had to legislate on it? We were accused of as anachronists and the bill as anachronistic. How did OSH function? We know how many millions of people gave a company privately from the state corpse. Let us rejoice in their modernisation at the CEDEFOP, which we heard last night and where the money was going! Let's smuggle the subway and the auctions! And what else? We are also being told incompetent because we cannot legislate or manage anything properly. Who? To rejoice in their ability: those who could not finish a single road did not finish the roads. And it is to the credit of the Minister who succeeded and ended them and at a lower cost and faster. Should I say about the Thessaloniki subway? For the negotiations? We are incapable of driving the country out of the memorials, and we knew where we were going with their own politics! Also, to finish with the charges, we are accused of doing works planned by them, such as roads. He was also mentioned by the New Democracy and also by the representatives of the Democratic Alliance. You know what, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? You did not do what you should have done, like the streets, to deal with the Lagard lists and all that, like tax evasion, and you did what you shouldn't have done. You've dissolved your health, fired the doctors, reduced your pensions, got loans on loan and anguish. This is your modernisation and this is your reform policy! Well, no matter how much you want to present us, you do not hide your positions on these issues. We know why you want the state, we know what your modernisation is, we know who you want to serve, and we also know who the world knows which state we want to serve, that is, the benefit of the many and the restoration of the injustices that you have created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been a few months before the nightmare of the country and the Greek people ended, New Democracy and the forces of old-fashionedism and particular interests. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Call as much as you want! This is why we have to press intensifiedly in the next period to establish a new framework for all aspects of the social, economic and productive life of the place. We must create the conditions for a different perception of how the political system operates in a real democracy. We must attempt large areas, real changes, which form a social code of values. We must overturn the policy, which has restored the Greek society, which has dismantled the productive forces, which has given the citizens the wrong signals for decades, which has allowed for the activities of circuits and the enrichment of certain favors of old-fashionedism. With the draft law, which we are debating today, we are trying in many areas and in a number of professional areas a new institutional framework that overthrows the policy of degradation of the professions, laying down rules for another function which respects the citizen, which stops favorably in specific interests, built by the New Democracy and by the old-fashioned party. It is a draft law that has a clear progressive, political and in many respects a class mark. It treats the worker, the self-employed, our thousands of fellow citizens in the transport sector equally, compared to the few companies favoured by the New Democracy. It ensures that no one will be allowed to empower, not to pay taxes, to make the money of the Greek people in tax havens and that some cannot afford to pay the bill, because all their money is in tax havens with political coverage. These are the main reasons why you are following the rabies communication battle against us and against the draft law. We want to send a message: say what you want, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you and those who applaud you and the media who support you. At the end of the day, the truth will be learned and you will remain speechless and fatal. You will run as yesterday, so that the issue of the European Court of Auditors' official report on motorways is not presented. I would like to make a copy of it to Mr Hatzidakis who was then the Minister responsible for the negotiating committees, so that he does not have the wrong picture in relation to what he has told us. You are trying today to distort even the report of the European Court of Auditors. You are doing well and you are now trying to present the white black, with all the media, three years in relation to the government. But do you and the European Court of Auditors report cancel? You, the so-called defenders of European institutions? Mr Karamanlis and Mr Hatzidakis, after the report by the European Court of Auditors, they have all understood why the projects have been delayed, because they have cost a lot more, because you have reduced the natural object, because the institutions of the European Commission are dusting the approvals of the parts you have removed from the concessions, such as the Patras Tower, such as the E65, such as the other sections. You also give a message to the citizens: don't believe in their eyes but you. To believe you, because we finished the works and the bad European Court of Auditors found that you did not complete the expropriations or the authorisations by 2014. You had removed 55% of the natural object and you had anticipated EUR 1,2 billion affliction. This is what the European Court of Auditors says to you that you are excellent! After five months of public and exhaustive consultation and four meetings in the Committee on Production and Trade, we are proposing the draft law. Unfortunately, although the range and theme are all about the daily life of the citizen, the quality of our lives, the lives of thousands of professionals and many-class workers, despite the fact that we have made an effort to widen convergence and a sincere dialogue with all the parties, today we have heard the Civic Opposition once again moving on the same path of yellowism, the distortion of truth and the defence of specific interests and we understand why. New Democracy and old-fashioned communism, unfortunately for the country, have tackled transport as the main area for the exercise of old-fashioned policies and interests. It legislated, sacrificing the public interest, the environment, rules and common sense, for the creation of old-fashioned mechanisms. He legislated by leaving empty and 'grey' zones to serve a few and selected ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is indeed regrettable for you to see one - one of the articles of old-fashioned communism that you had built - falling light on every dark corner of interest service you had created to serve you. It is all the more regrettable for you, the so-called reformists, the so-called market representatives, the so-called defenders of new technologies, to prove how anachronistic you have remained, how irresistible you have remained in the service of interests, how firm you have remained in the policy of unequal treatment of citizens, how unforgivable you are in the favor of your own chosen interests, how unrepentant worshipers of old communism remain. I would like to present the draft law, a categorisation of the provisions which include its objectives. The first category of issues concerns the introduction of empty 'grains' zones, we could say, which left the scope for circumvention of the legislation against the Greek people. It is well known to everyone for many years that these phenomena have not been dealt with for years. A number of examples are the regulation for public intermediation companies, the regulation for car hire brokering companies with drivers, the rules for the control of imported cars, the regulation for the service of citizens by abolishing guise in the transport services of regions, and therefore the hit of intermediaries. But let's see the grey zones, let's see what you've created. There are public passenger services. It's a certain number. You have opened the taxi business, you have introduced a larger number than the European countries. It defines the law that you have done, the invoice, the seat, the taxation, the insurance contributions. You set up car rental with a driver. You have had 12 hours, you have done it six and twenty-six to do so, with the 'grey' zones that you had, it would destroy the legislation that you have voted on. So what is the institutional framework? What are the control mechanisms you have had, what are the characteristics of drivers, what are the control of contracts? Nothing. You let mediation companies develop... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, I only have ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u415	Go on, Minister, you have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u416	Who are they owners? Who are they taxed? What evidence do they issue? Nothing. Consequence? The ultimate chaos. To be very honest, we are neither defending nor confronting any company. That's what you do. You are also talking about defending the 'TAXIBEAT', you have suddenly become fighters of 'UBER', after the ruling of the European Court of Justice, even though your parliamentary representative called 'grass'. There are two lines you've got. We're watching it. Will you tell us if you can tolerate all this mockery that goes against the Greek people? Will you tell us, because things have been heard and to present your "yellowing" if "TAXIBEAT" is based abroad? Does he have shareholders from the British Virgin Islands and many other tax havens abroad? Mr Karamanlis, I don't know where you got the details of the eight thousand motorists, but you didn't let a framework know about them. You probably have a special relationship with 'TAXIBEAT' and you have been told or told that you have moved a million citizens. How do you know that? Tell us about it. You know he's been accepting and accepting cards all this time when the money was going to a bank abroad? Mr. Drandakis said so. Not only you, but also all the media parrots, some time ago, found, says, a circuit that, through POS, made money abroad. "TAXIBEAT" is allowed to take them abroad? You have to understand that your policy and what you want, to stop driving the country out of the memorial to serve your own policies, has come to an end. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are establishing the framework for ensuring that the transport project is not intercepted. You are obviously defending certain companies, according to your regular practice. Because it bothers you to tell us. Why do you support the activity of companies abroad without paying taxes, without paying insurance contributions, without being controlled by the independent authorities, such as the personal data you are allegedly defending? Let's see the shame you're defending. I present you with a series of 'TAXIBEAT' ads: 'Rend 200 euros'. "30% discount with PayPal". "Now the "BEAT" gives you a comfortable move with 50% payPal card." On Halloween they have another discount policy. I put it before you to give it to the Members of the New Democracy who were told with Mr Drandakis that they were subsidising. He says, New Democracy did a subsidy. You'll have to go insane. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But these money, which was being saved from taxation, went to discounting policy to degrade the law that you voted on. The second thing I would like to say - is it not official, online - is if these offshore companies mentioned here were actually on the TAXIBEAT Stock Exchange before it was sold in 2017? I'm filing them, so we know what's going on. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Georgiadis said: “From her profit. What bothers you when it gives the profit to the citizens?' No problem, Mr. Georgiadis. Except that ‘TAXIBEAT’ has no profits. Since 2011, created until now in our country, the annex is permanent media. What profits? And that's what we're saying. Where is this company that has profits and as a young Robin Hood, it gets them from bad cab drivers and it distributes them to citizens? Where is he? It's not profitable. It's a matter of not having any profits and sharing money. Something else is going on. However, no one really expects, when you do not even read - well not to monitor the effort made in this House - the draft law. Where was the evaluation banned? Where did you see that? Here, we are also introducing provisions to evaluate all motorists and also to provide a platform for complaints by citizens. But we are not going, ladies and gentlemen, to go to society. We are going to persuade the professional groups to comply with regulations and laws, to exist from the industry itself, if possible, in order to make them much better. A lot has been said. To understand how the New Democracy has moved, I say: I come to the issue of KTEO. Since the 2001 Act - I have been talking about your own legislation on the organisation and operation of the KTEOs - there have been many joint ministerial decisions. We conclude in 2012 that a temporary removal of the licence or a temporary ban on private CTEO operations is required if it is not unreasonable to be updated within minutes of the issue of a technical card in a CTE. This was the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kalogannis. In January 2015, Deputy Minister Papadopoulos - an election had been announced, everything - abolishes the 2012 Joint Ministerial Decision and imposes sanctions on undeclared non-automatic updates no later than 0.00 seconds of the day, so that it cannot be directly and directly controlled on the cars that are in the CTEOs. I am making the decisions in the Minutes, to give them to the New Democracy and to see how he has set a step, step, step, steps, and interest in transport, so that neither the UBER nor the 'TAXIBEAT' nor the CTEO nor nowhere can be checked. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Karamanlis, let's see various heads of government who served at the Transport Ministry if their relatives have KTEO. Let's see why all this is common secrets from those who were blaming and dismantling the provisions. The second category of issues relates to the rules and the institutional framework on several issues, which the existing legislation had failed or had no effect on the daily lives of the citizen, with direct consequences for our culture, citizens' safety, the road behaviour of all of us, our lives and our health, and above all our fellow citizens with disabilities. A number of examples are the first eleven articles that finally make disciplinary boards for motorists, because they were never created and why their disciplinary penalties were deleted. We are legislating rules, we are legislating a platform for denouncing citizens to automobiles that do not comply with these rules, at last, something New Democracy has not done. We are in favour of evaluation, not you. Of course, in this group, there is also the institutional framework for marking and the rules for bicycle travel, which had not been carried out all these years, while millions had fallen into studies and not on bicycles. With regard to the changes to the CAP, I would like to dwell here on developing our policy objectives. You're telling us it's unconstitutional. That is not what the committee said. That's what he said. He talked about the license. He talked about the ministerial decision. That is why we tabled legislative proposals, which the law, Parliament, in other words you, will decide on these limits. At times - we are actually going a little - a lot of efforts have been made to shape the COK, and above all to comply with it. Let's just say they were good-for-nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u418	It's all right, Mr. Yakumato. I've heard all New Democracy officials for two weeks as Holy Mary. You'll hear it now, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u419	You want double-time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u420	I've spoken less than you, Mr. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u421	Minister, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u422	Are the fines classic? First of all, the fines are the same for everyone. There is an income increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u423	Oh, we're changing it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u424	Read. You don't read. What can I do to you? You are perfectly unsuccessful to this draft law. Read what the draft law says and then make your remarks. But citizens cannot connect the COK to the violations. It cannot, as you said in the committee of Parliament, be a fine and a collective policy. We are going to another logic, to another principle of the COK, not as an introductory instrument, but to the COK of security, culture, respect for our side, above all our adjoining with disabilities. That is why there is the categorisation that the relevant Committee of the Road Traffic Code will do, in which all the experts and those who have intended to participate are involved. To close, Mr President, some answers to what has been said. As far as OSCE is concerned, the contract that Mr Hatzidakis had signed without going to the Court of Auditors, the extension, provided for five hundred and twenty buses. Five hundred and twenty buses never existed in OSTH. Why wasn't there? Because, every day, a new activity of OSTH and New Democracy - from 2003 until 2014, OSTH, beyond what he said and has become known - should have been in the account there should have been 37 million for the renewal of the fleet and there were 614 euros, sold three hundred ninety-four buses, sold to CCEE, sold them to companies allegedly recyclable and did not give them to the Greek State as having to, even under these misdemeanours - if you want - services you have offered. So we expect the real routes to enter, and we predict, and it is our political goal, the new buses that will take place in our country, which we will buy for Thessaloniki and Athens, to make use of ELVO, which you wanted to close, as you have degraded all the production units in the country. Mr President, we have a lot to talk about what has been heard. Respecting the district MPs who have to leave and vote on the roll-call vote, I would like to close with the following: We will not be pleased, ladies and gentlemen, to applaud it in any interest, no matter how much pressure or intimidation, as much as the media that you control, no matter how much you put pressure or intimidation on us. We will do that for the benefit of the Greek people. Mr Karamanlis, please give this document that I have tabled to Mr Hatzidakis, because I do not see it, to read out your spectacular work on transport, on projects, on infrastructure, on the 1.2 billion banner that the Court of Auditors of Europe has been giving you since yesterday. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u425	Before we finish the procedure, we give the floor to Mr. Maniotis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, you're a little quiet! You're interested, after all, all of you directly. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I am referring to Amendment No 1527 and to a specific number 21 and first signatory to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 499a]] Following the assurances that both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, which had voted out this provision, we, Mr President, do not insist on the roll-call vote, since both SYRIZA and New Democracy come to our position. We therefore believe that we should now put this amendment to roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u427	The Democratic Reconciliation therefore withdraws the request for a roll-call vote on the amendment with a general number of 1527 and a special number of 21. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is being declared a little further: 'Regions on transport issues and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u436	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Transport and other provisions' was approved in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made to hold a roll-call vote of Members of the Radical Left Coalition on articles 12, 13, 20 and 21 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u437	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Antoniou Christos. Here you go. Mr. Arachovitis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Vardakis Socrates. Here you go. Mrs. Gara Anastasia. Here. Mr. Treasury John. Here you go. Mr. Dimitriadis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Theophebetto Aphrodite. Here. Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Cameroon Elias. Here you go. Mr. Karanastasis Apostle. Here you go. Mr. Katsis Marios. Here you go. Mr. Mardas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Michalis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Xydakis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Ursouzidis Georgios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u438	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be an electronic roll-call vote on Articles 12, 13, 20 and 21 of the bill and after the announcement of the result we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining articles of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. We will read the procedure once again, although the Members already have one vote. The first step, the first step, is to pass our card on the bottom right side of the screen to identify us. Press "CONTACT", when the corresponding icon is activated. Your screen shows the articles of the roll-call vote and the bill for which you must vote. The person voting in favour of the article declares his preference by choosing 'NAH'. The person who votes against the article declares his preference by opting for 'NOI'. He who votes for "PARS" states his preference by choosing "PANS". Once we have voted, we choose "OLACH" and then choose "NAH", to register and finalize our vote or not, to return and control it or review it. As a final vote, the system shall record the last final vote. I would ask you to start the vote. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, while the vote is taking place, I would like to make a statement to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom ENTERPRISE VENIZELOS and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fourteen students and students and one of their teachers from IEK Halandri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u439	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Ioannis Mikelogannakis, Anastasios Kourakis, Efis Georgopoulos - Saltaris, Ioannis Balafas, Andreas Kanthioura, Markos Bolaris and George Varentou, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "NEI". Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Theodorou Karaoglou, Constantine Giuleka, Constantine Al. Karamanlis, Apostolo Vesiropoulos, Savva Anastasiadis, Christos Boukorou, Maximou Charakopoulos, Stavros Kalogeorgios, Olga Kefalokranis, Georgiou Koutsakou, Konstantinos Javara, Christos Stakoura, Helena Raptis, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Konstantinos Konkogeorgios, Konstantinos Karasmanis, Evangelos Meimarakis, Fotinis Arabatzis, Nikos Kerameos, Emmanouil Konsola and Georgiou Vagionas, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "OK". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u440	Ladies and gentlemen, have everyone voted? Is there a colleague who hasn't voted? I ask you why we should close the system, so that we can continue the electronic vote on the other articles. So there is no colleague who has not voted. So we can close the system. The vote is therefore adjourned and we await the counting of votes and the export of the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, how long is the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u442	I can't tell you how long it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, if you can't tell me who will tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u444	Do you want me to tell you the exact time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u445	Tell me the duration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u446	The duration is always dependent on the articles that we are going to vote on in your electronic vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, you have not understood what I am saying. After how many minutes can I fix my vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u448	Until we announce the result, you can correct your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u449	My system is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u450	However, once it has been announced that the system is closing down in the particular vote which has to do with the specific articles in the request for roll-calls, the voting system has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u451	I'm not against you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u452	What's your question now? You ask how long and how long can you fix your vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u453	Mr President, this is not a personal question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u454	I don't take it as a personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u455	My system, you shut it down to me right away. How long have I had the right to change my vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u456	As long as this vote lasts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u457	How long is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u458	It is announced by the Bureau once everyone has voted and raised the question whether or not everyone has voted, whether or not someone is missing or who might want to correct. About five minutes. Approximately there to calculate if I can calculate correctly. Tolerance exists anyway
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u459	Mr. President, may I speak? Whether I'm here or not, you don't know that. The vote began at 7 p.m. When does it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u460	But it didn't end at 9:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, thank you very much. Mercy! I say to you the vote begins at this hour and ends at that hour. Can I know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u462	I can't tell you for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u463	If you don't tell me, who's gonna tell me? You're presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u464	Are you talking about the whole vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u466	The whole vote is as follows. At the moment we have finished a small piece and the rest of the articles are missing. I can't tell you the time or how long.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u467	My dear Mr. President, I'm not talking about now. We all start voting and say that there is a start of the vote. How long does this vote last?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u468	Five minutes? Seven minutes, will you? That's about there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u469	I want to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u470	That's what I'm telling you. What else can I tell you? You ask me about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u471	Your Honor, it's not personal. I think we should have a framework here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Gregorako, so we don't play now, five minutes is enough for you as an answer? If you're not enough, I can't convince you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u473	That is arbitrary, Mr President. You don't talk to anyone. You've been talking to a Member of Parliament who's been 20 years ago and wants an answer. It's arbitrary what you're doing. Please, I very much want to know how long the vote lasts. Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u474	What do you want me to say exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u475	You can tell me how long this vote lasts. I'm speaking Greek. If you don't know, Mr President, don't talk to me. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u476	Be a little more polite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u477	Please. Please. Don't talk to me like that. I don't want you talking to me like that. You don't talk to submissives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u478	Please. I told you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u479	Mr. President, will you let me speak? Can I speak? I would like it to be announced in the vote that the vote is beginning now and ending now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u480	Did you hear it was announced?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u482	It's not my fault. All Members heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u483	Nobody heard it. Why didn't you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u484	I'm sorry, didn't I announce it? The Minutes are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u485	How long you didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u486	The Minutes are here. And I announced the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u487	The President announced...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u488	I don't want any lawyers. Can you sit there? I don't want any lawyers. I can and I can defend myself. Sit down now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u489	Mr. Gregoraco! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u490	Where does he think he is, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u491	Tell him to sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u492	It's not worth getting into a dispute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u493	Sit down, son, I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Gregoraco, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u495	Mr. President, where does he think he is and tells me to sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u496	Look, I want to know the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u497	I read the rules of the electronic voting when we started the vote. When the time came to open the system of electronic recording of votes, I gave the order - let me the word - to open the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u498	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u499	At the end of the voting procedure, asking twice and three times if a Member of Parliament left, who did not have time to vote, there was no reply or request from someone. And I ordered the vote to be closed again. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u500	Your Honor, I would like to know if I have any margin from the time you start the vote - that is my question - how much time do I have, if I'm on the road, how many minutes do I have here to come and vote? If I'm late, can I have a little time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u501	Mr Gregorakos, any questions you have at the Conference of Presidents, to discuss them. We're not going to spend our time here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u502	Can I have a little time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u503	There is a timescale, because so far, even though it is the second time that we have voted on electronically, there has been no 'parallel' or any problem. And after all, anyone who does not, in this timeframe I am telling you, can make a correction of the vote, obviously also in the Minutes. What else can I tell you? How long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u504	Mr President, was there not a second reading of the list in the previous votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u505	First of all, there is no listing in electronic voting. We are giving the Member of Parliament the right and, in general, the Members of Parliament... They remind me that it has also been announced at the Conference that there is no such question of name reading if electronic voting takes place. How will the names be read?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u506	Shouldn't you give some time extensions as we did in previous votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u507	You were here in the Chamber. You heard from the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u508	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u509	Hey, if you didn't listen, let's be quiet to hear. So what does the Bureau have to do? Three times I asked the House whether there are Members who did not vote. No one lifted a hand, no one complained, etc. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u510	We therefore have the announcement of the result so that we do not waste time, which you are obviously complaining about. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of a roll-call vote with regard to Articles 12, 13, 20 and 21 of the bill: Article 12: A total of 224 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 65 Members voted. 'PARON', they voted 6 MPs. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's A total of 224 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 167 Members. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 20: A total of 224 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 169 Members. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 21: A total of 224 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 169 Members. Against this article, 51 Members voted against. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u511	After the roll-call vote was completed, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. So the vote begins. A few seconds until the system opens. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic system can be opened. The rapporteurs and the special speakers can start the electronic voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, amendments have been incorporated. You must say from early what amendments have been incorporated. I see now that of Neorio and that of Saint Paul. Are there others that have been incorporated into the innard? Is it only two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u513	Mr Katsotis, these are the amendments tabled to the committee which were accepted in committee and discussed. I do not know if the corresponding situation of the amendments that have been incorporated has been distributed to you. I am now referring to all the amendments, to specific texts. I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speaker to start the electronic vote. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We welcomed you, but because you see us and you don't hear us, we're bouquets - I'm addressing the children who are watching us from the top Western theories from Thessaloniki - to explain to you that at the moment the electronic vote has been held and concluded. This is the second time that a bill has been voted in the new way, electronically. We are awaiting the results of the vote in the articles of the bill which will be announced by the President-in-Office and this will complete the legislative work for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u514	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic vote in this House. Articles 1 to 11 have been accepted by a majority. Articles 14 to 19 have been accepted by a majority. Articles 22 to 95 have been accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1522 was accepted by a majority of 17. Amendment No 1523, and a special 18, was accepted by a majority. The amendment with a general number of 1531 and a special 24 was accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1534, and a special 26, has been accepted by a majority. The amendment with a general number of 1535 and a special 27 was accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1513, and specific No 11, was accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1516 by a general majority, and a special 14 by a majority, was accepted. Amendment No 1519 by a general majority and a special 16 by a majority was accepted. Amendment No 1525, and Amendment No 19, was accepted by a majority. Amendment No 1529, and Amendment No 23, was accepted by a majority. The amendment with a general number of 1532 and a special 25 was accepted by a majority. The notebook article was accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Transport and other provisions' was accepted in principle and under the articles. As is clear from the electronic vote, the bill was accepted and the whole majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u515	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Transport and other provisions' was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u517	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-22-S1-commons.u518	With the consent of the House at 21.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 23 March 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
