ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Thursday's topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 22 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 161/19-11-2018 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "At a slow pace, significant infrastructure projects in Magnesia." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 169/20-11-2018 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Assessment of impacts on the construction and operation of the airport in Kastelli - Need for works and reward benefits for the region". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 162/19-11-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Yoyaka to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on ‘Applying to extend the grant of an extra-institutional allowance’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 124/5-11-2018 of the Greek MP, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "In the last posts in the European Union Greece in poverty and child poverty". 3. The question by MP I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". 4. The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. 5. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece by Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Security of Lao People's Lotteries Sales after 1-5-2014 the date of the contract of grant of the exclusive right to produce, operate, circulate, promote and manage state-of-the-art lotteries in private". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions'. I would also like to remind you that the committee of inquiry into health scandals in the years 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for which the plenary of the Parliament has set a deadline for the submission of its findings on 23 November 2018, in a letter requesting the extension of its operation until 7 December 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Panagioti (Panou) Kammen and Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. The Report of 8 November 2018 was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Kammenos's immunity should not be lifted. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 8 November 2018 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the decision of 7 March 2018 of the Conference of Presidents on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. There are several forms and cards on the tables, which are informative and relate to other things. We do not vote on a list and you do not use the papers you have in front of you. That is why we should be informed. The vote will be e-mail. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. The second case concerns Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. The second request, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There is also no colleague. We would like to point out that the vote includes two different cases of the waiver of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the Greek-French School of San José. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I should like to inform the children that they have come to a stage in the House which is taking an electronic vote on a matter and at this time Members are electronically voting on the devices in front of them and tabling their opinion electronically. When this procedure ends, we will announce the results of the vote. That's what we're doing right now. I'm informing the students to know which phase they came to the House. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u5	Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. On the first case of Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, a total of 156 Members voted. In support of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 37 Members voted. They voted 119 MPs against the lifting of immunity. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. A total of 152 Members voted on the second case by Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a three-minute break here so that the rapporteurs of the parties can come and move on to legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of network and information systems throughout the Union’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 November 2018 to vote on the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u9	The House has agreed. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Anastasia Gara, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, cybersecurity is one of the most important pillars of the national digital strategy, as at the transitional stage of digitisation, in which we live and act, the security and the need to protect users of digital services is high on the list of our own priorities. In this cyberspace ecosystem, the incorporation of this directive comes to create a safe, trusted and protected environment for our country and for Europe, ensuring a high level of security of systems and information. This directive, known as the NIS, is not just a piece of legislation. It is a complete and processed operational plan at the service level, which coordinates all relevant and involved actors. It establishes a framework for cooperation between operational authorities responsible for cybersecurity and implements a risk-based information and treatment plan for critical services in energy, financial services, transport, health, water, digital services and banks. At this point it is worth making a more extensive reference to the importance of cybersecurity. It is particularly important to understand that, in implementing this directive, we are coming to fill the gap that exists for the safety and protection of data managed by the country's critical infrastructures and by digital service providers. Therefore, it is not about provisions which solve a problem that a personal computer or a stealing of personal data may have. It is the management of incidents, which affect a large number of citizens, disrupt the functions of large services and structures and may have a serious impact on the economic and social activities of our society as a whole. In the digital era, with a strong cyber-war phenomenon, there is a great need for adequate recording and evaluation of such incidents, as it has been noted that the authorities are being informed of much less cybercrime than is being done. This is a brake both on the prevention and on the effective treatment of such phenomena. That is precisely because we are dealing with high-level security, the Department of Defence Government's Department becomes the appropriate and immediate response team for these incidents. This address is a structure which has already developed tools and capabilities to respond to threats and cyber attacks of this type. At this point I would like to mention once again that our government's policy, the objectives of the Ministry and of the General Secretariat for Digital Policy, are focused on shielding the country's critical infrastructure from the cyber threats, as we work systematically so that our country can become a transport and telecommunications hub, a trade hub. That is why ensuring reliable and modern networks is a priority for us. At the same time, we pay particular attention to the growing of confidence in the citizens, as they will be invited to enter digital transactions, which in turn are a prerequisite for the development of the digital economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law creates a reinforced security framework for network and information systems, in line with the other Member States of the European Union. It defines three national authorities and their framework of operation, the National Cyber Security Authority, the National Single Contact Centre, principles already set up in the Ministry of Digital Policy, while the third, the Cyber Defence Directorate, to which we have been reported, is designated as a competent authority for the prompt response to security incidents. This draft law concerns critical sectors of socio-economic life, energy, transport, banks, financial services, health, drinking water, digital infrastructure. It also defines the private and public bodies involved in the exploitation of basic services, the FEBY, as well as the criteria setting out the serious security incidents. The seriousness of the incidents requiring notification shall be judged by the number of users affected by the disturbance, by the duration of the incidents and by the geographical range of the affected area. Finally, it provides for notification obligations for FABH and digital service providers to the State and for protection measures to be taken. In the event of non-compliance, it sets fines of up to EUR 200,000 if there is recurring on a case. In particular, the first chapter describes the scope of the relevant law. The second article analyses the specific restrictions on the processing of personal data and the third article sets out the necessary definitions. The fourth article introduces the concept of basic critical infrastructure and the way it is characterised. In combination with them, the fifth article describes in detail the parameters that are not least taken into account for the definition of serious incidents. Subsequently, the second chapter describes the three competent authorities that we mentioned before. Of particular importance is that new services and infrastructure are not introduced, so that the financial costs are not borne by them. The third and fourth chapters describe the obligations of VHS and digital service providers in respect of the fulfilment of security requirements and the communication of security incidents and their control and in Article 13 deal with matters of cross-border provision of services. To sum up, I would like to point out that the national digital strategy is based on two key pillars: The first pillar, on which the strategy is based, is cybersecurity, which is ensured by this Directive, as it constitutes a pillar of the implementation of the European Civil Aviation Safety Policy. In this context, it is noted that the national cybersecurity strategy has already been approved, with the competent body of the National Civil Aviation Authority. This principle, as a high-political-level body with specialised officials, monitors and implements the actions of the national cybersecurity strategy and is responsible for coordination between actors active in Greece in the field of cybersecurity. The second pillar, on which the strategy is based, is the European Agency for Network and Information Security, known as ENISA. This agency has been upgraded in its role and mandate from the European Union for its character and its increased responsibilities. It is, of course, very positive that not only is it in Greece, but we have managed to turn our country into a permanent agency's seat. This is therefore a particularly important development, as ENISA will attract high-qualified human resources across Europe and will play a key role in preventing and dealing with cyber attacks, standardising and managing security risks, and it is defined as the European Civil Aviation Authority. It is reasonable to raise questions as regards the budget, as critical actions are assigned to the ministries. However, as the Minister, Mr. Papapas, has informed us, during the Committee on Public Administration, Production and Trade, where this bill was discussed, the use of European funds from the HORIZON 2020 programme has already begun. There are also three projects which are exploiting the OHIM and a programme exploited by the Ministry of Digital Policy, which have already started to implement and disburse the amounts involved. As indicated in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, any expenditure on increased responsibilities may be covered by additional European programmes and funds. In closing this recommendation, I would like to mention that in recent years, with the policy pursued by the Ministry of Digital Policy, our country has drawn up a different path in terms of digital technologies. Significant initiatives have been taken not only in space and cybersecurity, but also in the field of science, innovation, but also in the daily lives of citizens. Characteristics and with multiplier benefits for society and the economy are the digitisation of the public sector, the central system of document handling with remote digital signatures and the digital transformation of the agricultural sector. In the latter I would like to focus particularly on the fact that our Government has set as the main objective the transition of Greek economy and agricultural production from traditional cultivation to modern methods through new technologies. The project has already been announced and soon the programme will become an estate of four hundred and fifty thousand farmers. According to the planning of the action, six and a half thousand ground stations will monitor crops in fifteen million acres, collect data on soil, air and water, which will then be exploited to provide specific advice for each field separately and to each grower separately. The farmer will now be able to receive with a simple message to his mobile updates of extreme weather phenomena and irrigation advice as well as protection of his production. The data will also be open for academic purposes and for the private sector, with appropriate contracts and cooperation required. The 'intelligent agriculture' action, which has been piloted, has led to a reduction in costs for farmers of up to 45%. The digital transformation and modernisation of the agricultural sector is a one-way path. That is why we must make use of all the public tools in this direction. In this context and outside the size of the memoranda, the amendment which is expected to be tabled today or in the next few days and which concerns the abolition of the obligation to pay a trade fee for a number of professional groups and especially farmers. It is therefore excluded - as the Prime Minister has announced in the PPC - from the obligation to pay a trade fee from the 2018 tax year, and from now on, farmers who are members of agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, school cooperatives, social and solidarity economic operators in the form of a PPC as well as natural or legal persons and legal entities in clearing, bankruptcy or inactivity. This is one of the many positive measures announced by the Prime Minister, which restores injustices and reduces financially a large proportion of professionals and farmers, including the reduction of insurance contributions, a draft law that was passed last week by the committees. The exit from the Memorandum regime is therefore not "a empty shirt", as the Opposition often supports. The exit from the memoranda gives the possibility of policies that support Greek society and production, opening new prospects for our fellow citizens. The "fourth Memorandum" that the Antipopulation so much desired and advertised for us is a strong contract with society to improve the living conditions and to change the country's course. And today is a fact. It is a fact and we invite you to vote for it, along with all the other positive measures and draft laws that come to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you to SYRIZA's rapporteur, Anastasia Gara. May I invite Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start by talking about farmers, since we heard at the end of the speech by the SYRIZA rapporteur - Mr SYRIZA's very good colleague - about the good things that are coming for farmers. After the SYRIZA - ANEL government abolished OGA, after it increased VAT on agricultural supplies and then says that it has resurrected and celebrated it, after it has brought the excise duty on wine, which has dissolved a large part of the country's production and export of wine, since oil no longer has the imperfection for farmers, it is now coming and says that it will give them a digital platform. As I said last time - we will have a long time to talk about the digital platform that is being prepared - if we do not give farmers good functions of the state, such as agricultural insurance - at the moment ELGA does not even discuss what is happening with olive oil production - if we do not give farmers the possibility of real education if we do not actually change the age and knowledge of the country's rural population, we are in danger of making digital changes that will have no impact on production. That's what you're used to. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today - and I would remind you that it is 21 November - the incorporation into Greek legislation of a common directive on security measures in network and information systems, namely cyberspace. We all know - not just from the importance Europe attaches to cybersecurity - how important this security is, especially when it comes to states and state bodies. Only that Directive entered into force in August 2016. And while the states had twenty-one months to incorporate it into their national law - i.e. until May 2018 - Greece is probably the last country to do so, with a characteristic delay and after receiving a warning letter from the European Union from 19 July. But it's not just the delay. Moreover, it is not the first of the Ministry of Digital Policy, which, under the leadership of Mr Papapas, should be said to be the "Minister of Religions". It is also the fact that the bill was never put into public consultation. Cold letters, because Mr. Pappas does not care about him, either as Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, or as an Minister of State. What does he care? The whole of Greece has understood that Mr. Pappas is SYRIZA's propaganda minister. His only concern from the beginning so far is how SYRIZA can fully control the media area. Its creation is the new ERT, the ERT that the whole country now characterizes as "SYRIZA CHANNEL", the ERT that a journalist characterizes as metropolitans as extreme right-wing, but appears as a repentant Magdalene when he is threatened with sues, the ERT that a journalist, without the slightest feeling but also the fascism, characterizes the fascist as the Chief of Officerial Response, the ERT of the carpeted trade unionists, who launch a gross attack on former Prime Minister Anton Samaras. In fact, that sort of thing against the public service broadcaster has never lived in the country before. And that, Mr. Pappa, is your work! The complaints of the journalists themselves and ERT officials, who have led to so many resignations, are very serious and show such a decline, which is certain they will soon also employ justice. To say things by their name, the previous government, the Samara government, did not turn off public television. He closed up a public body, ERT, which was badly abused. In the position of ERT, a new public body, NERIT, which was much healthier, opened immediately. And this is evidenced by the fact that he soon had much larger viewing than the old ERT. In fact, in 2014, NERIT had a higher rate of television viewing than ERT has today, which is now overshadowed by internal dirt and complaints of maladministration and scandals. NERIT then criticised the government, and today the government propaganda of the new ERT is intolerable even for your own government MPs. But that's not public television. Even the brief transitional period between ERT and NERIT became a symbol and tool. The famous "Black" became a symbol of populism and a tool of idealism. However, to be honest, Mr. Pappas also offered a valuable service. He showed what really means "black" on TV, because what we are living today is absolute black propaganda! So, with this, the Minister for Digital Policy, the man who would have the canals paid and laughed, and the antennas, of course, not only for the auction fiasco he made and who is another monument of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, but also for the regulation he made by reducing the tax on large channels from 20% to 5%, at the same time as the tax on regional channels remains at 20%. This is the Minister's sensitivity to regional resources. He wants to dismantle it. A regional instrument with the key pays 24% VAT, 20% tax, 2% EAEC, 2% tax on one copyright company and 2% on the other copyright company, 50% on the "good morning". The costs ‘DIGEA’ outside. Finally, Mr. Pappa, you are struggling to save the regional media. Where, then, can Mr Pappas have time to deal with cyber security and the European Union directive, when all energy is about how to become a status in the information area? And how can it understand that, on 7 March last, the Ministerial Decision 3218, the National Government's Security Strategy, was adopted, which notes that it is fully in line with the NIS Directive, but which we are now debating? These beautiful and highly fragile events occur in Greece of SYRIZA - ANEL. Now, as far as the substance of the directive and the draft law is concerned, there is probably not much to be said, since this covers the issues raised by the directive. The directive proposes a wide range of measures to strengthen the level of security of network and information systems, to ensure services that are vital to the economy and society of the European Union, so that European Union countries are well prepared and ready to handle and face cyber attacks. The Network and Information Systems Safety Directive entered into force in August 2016. The Member States had a period of twenty-one months to transpose the directive into their national law and had six more months to identify the operators of basic services. The Directive contains the first legally binding rules on cybersecurity at European Union level and creates a high uniform level of security of network and information systems throughout the European Union. On 19-7-2018, the European Commission sent a letter of formal notice to seventeen Member States to fully transpose the first part of the European Union's cybersecurity legislation, including, of course, Greece. And that's not the first time your ministry's been stalling. The bill was not put in public consultation, as you claimed. It is also not the first time that what the Ministry claims does not apply. And while we should have ended today with the debate on the definition of service providers, we are discussing the draft law on the transposition of the directive alone. The draft law covers the issues raised by the directive. In particular, their scope is to operate basic services in the energy, transport, banks, financial market, health, drinking water and digital infrastructure sectors and, secondly, to provide digital services including enterprises such as search engines, providers, iCloud services. The National Competent Authority for the Safety of Network and Information Systems is defined as the Government Security Directorate of the General Secretariat for Digital Policy of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. A competent response team on the incidents related to computer security and responsible for handling risks and incidents, in accordance with a well-defined procedure, shall be the Department of Government Defence of the OHIM. The National Governing Authority shall, in cooperation with the Basic Service Sector Regulators and other relevant national bodies, identify, for each sector and subsector listed in Annex 1, the main service operators established on the Greek territory. By decision of the Minister, following a recommendation from the National Civil Aviation Authority, the main service operators are designated. The criteria for the identification of operators are that the operator provides a service essential for maintaining critical social or economic activities and that the provision of that service is based on safety bodies. The National Governing Authority in cooperation with sector-specific basic services - competent regulatory or supervisory authorities and other stakeholders - determines the criteria for identifying an event as a serious disruption. The National Government Security Authority shall update the national strategy approved by Ministerial Decision 3218/2018 of the Minister for Digital Policy and notify it to the Committee within three months of the Minister’s approval. Under the Directive, States should, on the basis of criteria, define which undertakings provide basic or vital services in areas such as energy, transport, health, financial services. Those undertakings, also called basic service operators, should take appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage risks, prevent and minimise the impact of incidents and notify without undue delay the competent authority of events with a serious impact following the basic services they provide. The seriousness of the events shall be judged by the number of users affected by the basic service disruption, the duration of the event, the geographical range of the area affected by the event. The Directive also requires digital service providers, including electronic shops, iCloud search engines and iCloud services to identify and take appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage risks, prevent and minimise the impact of incidents affecting safety. The Directive requires Member States to establish a national strategy for the safety of network and information systems, to establish a national contact point for the safety of network and information systems. Entities that are not identified as key information operators and are not digital service providers may, on a voluntary basis, communicate events with serious implications for the operational continuity of the services they provide. The Minister for Digital Policy, following a recommendation from the National Governing Authority, shall impose sanctions on a natural or legal person in the event of a breach of the provisions of this Law. In other words, the country acquires a national cybersecurity authority, the Government Security Directorate of the General Secretariat for Digital Policy, and a competent group on computer security incidents is the OHIM Government Defence Directorate. All this is useful and necessary in order for the state to acquire a defence structure, a chest against cyber attacks. It is also important that key service operators will now be designated, but that those undertakings that provide basic or vital services in areas of vital importance such as energy, transport, health and financial services will be designated. The Directive also requires digital service providers, including electronic shops, search engines, iCloud services, to identify and take appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage risks, prevent and minimise the impact of incidents affecting safety. Finally, I do not even need to mention that by 9 May 2018 we are obliged to report to the European Parliament in the assessment of the consistency of the Member States' approaches in identifying operators and basic services. It is another deadline, six months from today, which we will certainly lose unless Mr Pappas and his Government have left earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis. Before we proceed with a special speaker, I should like to call on the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatsiou, to develop the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The trade fee is a fee imposed on the days of the memoranda. What are we talking about today with this amendment? Firstly, we are gradually beginning to lighten business from the burdens of the memorandums with the budget space we have, so it is also targeted and, secondly, the sensitivity of our Government to the cooperative schemes and also to the cooperative farmers, who are mostly small farmers. It is one of the measures announced by our Prime Minister at the IGC and the next few days come and the next steps in the House to vote. In Amendment No 1804 and special number 51, Article 31 of Law No 3986 is amended as follows: In the case of paragraph 1 of Article 31, the second subparagraph of Article 31 shall be added that the obligation of the preceding subparagraph shall be abolished from 1 to 2019. The fourth subparagraph of Article 31(3) is also replaced by the following: From the tax year 2018, that is, in 2019, when we make tax declarations, the following which I will mention will not have a trade end. And who are they? They are farmers, members of rural cooperatives, who fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 8 of Law No.4384/2016, namely those who produce 80% of their production to cooperatives and agricultural cooperatives, the school cooperatives referred to in Article 46 of Law No. 1566/1985, and here I would like to stress a little, because in recent years a school partnership in the Halkidiki region has been established and we are also abolishing this - the social and solidarity institutions in the form of a social cooperative, the COMGS, workers' cooperatives and, regardless of legal form, which are liquidated, bankrupt or inactivity. Where inertia does not occupy the entire tax year, it shall apply in proportion to the months inertial. We believe that we are starting with a small step, but unfolding the reduction bucket and relieving business from the weights of the memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u17	Before I take the floor, I would like to ask a detailed question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u18	Yes, of course. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u19	Madam Minister, I am pleased to see that in this amendment, which you have just read us, you are withdrawing the obligation to pay a fee of EUR 500 from various social groups. I imagine the trigger was the incomprehensible news we read 15 days ago, that you asked for the end of a trade from the student cooperative in Halkidiki, who was cultivating in the school garden and forced them to close it. Even so, with this step, however, we can consider that the primary school children have taught you a very good lesson. I see, however, something I would like you to clarify. You mentioned that there is no obligation to pay a trade fee to members of agricultural cooperatives and others. Right. Subject: Exemption for farmers - members of the local IMPs (TEIs), where there are three hundred thousand farmers, who are local IMPs, are subject to the prefecture of the GFCF each time, the General IMPs Agency, yes or no? And I'm talking to you about other collective entities, not agricultural cooperatives, because we know very well what happens with various rural cooperatives. I am talking about the local IMPs that exist, they have VETs, they operate, they pay farmers, they have tax information, and for which I think it is self-evident that you need to add another intervention to get rid of the trade fee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u21	First of all, to explain about the school cooperative, about the fact that we closed the vegetable garden, etc. All that's parasitic. Applications are not carried out by the Ministry of Finance. They're made by the Independent Public Revenue Authority. In addition, its legal form was a cooperative. Right here we come to heal. From that point on, it doesn't mean we've closed any partnerships.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u22	It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u23	It's too badly closed. And how do you know, Mr. Maniots, that it's closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u24	But it's closed. The kids delivered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u25	All this is cultivated in the media. In any case, we come to heal it and can reopen it, because they know that they will have no end to a trade. The implementation was in line with the provisions of the law and how they were registered in their register. It has nothing to do with our political will, nor with those who have legislated for these cooperatives. Moreover, the farmers who are in TWG do not mean that they cannot be members of some productive cooperatives. Since they are members of some producer cooperatives and produce them, 80% will have the relief. TWGs do not trade products. The TWGs are not cooperatives. The TWGs have another activity. If you want us to exclude the entity itself, the TWGs, from the trade end to consider it, Mr. Maniotis. But it does not concern farmers who are members of TWGs. TWG members may be members of any productive cooperatives in their region. For the entity itself, if you want, we can examine it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u26	Ask, Mr. Maniotis, what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u27	Please, Minister, check for the TWGs as well. I am sure you will agree that you need to extend it. Well, thanks for the goodwill to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u28	Continue with your speech as a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing Directive 1148/2016. It is a very good European directive, which aims to promote cybersecurity and help to prevent cyber attacks on large information systems and large communications networks. It is a directive that we have worked on since 2013 and 2014. I have also stated in the debate to the committee that we are voting in favour of it by always holding our reservations that the government should not bring a whole series of amendments to the debate at first reading. Now, an interesting, perhaps most interesting article in this particular directive is what it says who is responsible for protecting our country and its systems from cybersecurity. This body is therefore a pan-European body, ENIZA, established in Heraklion Crete. Since when is he, ladies and gentlemen? ENIZA, this great deterrent of cyber attacks, is from the time of the bad government of Costas Simitis in 2003-2004. So then, then, the then government of Costas Simitis succeeded and brought to Greece the ENIZA, this pan-European organization that we are now coming and giving him even more powers, because it has now established its own importance. Of course, I need to comment on all this mud campaign at the expense of Kostas Simitis, which is exalted by the underground of Maximos, because we have now said so many times that it is absolutely clear to the Greek citizens that this is a particular conscientious attack on the Prime Minister of Europe, the modernisation of the country's great works. But it is interesting to note this so that I do not leave this matter. This so-called independent authority that controls Costas Simitis' bank accounts, you know, is a authority appointed by the government. The head was appointed by Mrs Vassiliki Thanos, I was now inaugurating at the Maximos Mansion, and the other sixteen - seventeen members are appointed by the ministers. So this is not a principle of justice, but it is a government principle. But look at an interest, ladies and gentlemen, which may have dispersed the attention of some of us. There is also the famous committee of control of the "subjects" of politicians and other persons. This committee, by 30 October 2018, until 20 days ago, had nine members and by the legislation of the current government, at the end of October - I repeat twenty days ago - it changed its composition and added two other members and replaced a third. Do you know which member of the Audit Committee has been replaced? The Citizen's Counsel has been replaced. Who was it to replace, ladies and gentlemen? With Ms Maria Papaspyrou, General Inspector of Public Administration, with the well-known relationship between Ms. Papaspyros and Mr. Janakopoulos. You can find the legislation, it is yours, it was published in the FEK on 30-10-2018. So now we're going to the next issues. We are talking in a specific political context, the political framework of paranoia. Because it is paranoia to see so-called celebrations on the part of the government, when the ten-year bond has fled over 4.68%, the "TITAN" and the "COCA COLA" have left Greece, the three systemic banks have gone away, the five thousand employees of ELDORADO say that they will lose their jobs, because the government despite the seventeen decisions of the Council of State and the recent arbitration decision does not authorize them to continue the investment, in the Greek one has not fallen any smoke, nor one action in the Greek one, despite the fact that we have had the 600 million scandal for the concession of the airport of Athens for twenty years, we have the scandal in Trinity, we have the scandal in the DPA, we have the scandal with the scandal of the Kalopots, which was in the case of the Kalopots. And we also have the scandal, where unspeakable, unspeakable, the Prime Minister, heard that George Soros worshipped his government, following a complaint from Mr. Kammenos. This is Greece where the current government wants to convince us that everything is going well. However, at the same time, it is also Greece of five million bank confiscations, of thirty thousand house auctions, of lifting protection of the first home under the 2010 PASOK Act, from 1-1-2019. It is the Greece of Mr. Tsipras with thirty thousand hereditary releases. Appointment of inheritance means that the father or grandfather died, inherited by children and children have no money to pay for all these charges and they say in the state "Keep it, yours". We're talking about a hundred and thirty thousand legacy decommissionings. And now, we come to celebrate the government that will vote in favour of the pension cut, the old pensions, which is the only one that voted. This, as a minimum, recommends political insanity. We, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a very concrete proposal on the economic development of the country and on the creation of a strong welfare state yesterday. The President of the Change Movement, the Fofi Gennimata, described in all its context the framework that we understand and for which we commit ourselves to going down to the next election and which, in particular, commits us politically to the post-election period. It would be very interesting to hear what the views of both the Government and the New Democracy are about the very specific proposal that we tabled yesterday. But we are now coming to the bill, which, as I said at the outset, we will vote in favour, because there are some issues that need clarification or remarks. I read from today's newspaper headline. Title: "Greek is pulling out her children again." Where does this post appear? Because the Management Development Institute, a global organisation that runs all countries, last year in the forty-fourth place of the sixty-three countries it is studying, this year ranks three steps further down, in position forty-four of sixty-three countries. Because we are talking about a directive on cybersecurity, and because the issue of cybersecurity is extremely important, very important, I would like to note and submit to this House our own view of this matter. Because at the moment we are in a global economy, where within the next year six million new jobs are expected to be created in the areas of cybersecurity. Fortunately, Greek reality, Greek life, did not expect the bills of the SYRIZA - ANLE government. Because in our country, today we are talking, without any intervention from any state, there are at least a thousand young children who are supporting cyber-attacks. I belong to the University of Piraeus, where our department, the Department of Digital Systems, had the joy and honor of slapping the national team against cyber attacks at the pan-European competition held in October 2018 in London, where the Greek cybersecurity team came fifth on a pan-European level. These are the pride of the Greek universities, the Greek new generation, which this government wants to destroy and destroy. However, because we have heard both the Minister and the majority rapporteur talking to us about intelligent agriculture and because intelligent agriculture is indeed the future of agriculture, you know, no one was expecting the call for the Programme of 30 million intelligent agriculture by the co-legislative ministers for Digital Policy and Rural Development. For at least two years in my own county, Argolida, the Local Agency for IMPs, TEI Hera Kourtakis, has been struggling to implement for six hundred farmers in six thousand acres of citrus digital intelligent agriculture with sensors, with drones, with automatic vultures, with photovoltaic installation and still has not succeeded. And between the others, do you know why he hasn't made it? Since the SYRIZA Government does not allow the TWGs of Argolida and all of the Peloponnese to install photovoltaics because it considers that they obviously do not have the right, by themselves, of the TWGs of all Greece. And I have called for the intervention of both the Minister of Agriculture and the present Minister of Digital Policy, in order to stop this. Ladies and gentlemen, I will table a graph showing that Greece is a 20th sixth country in the twenty-eight countries on the list of the digital economy and digital society. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So when there is such a categorisation of the country, one always needs to be more careful after four years of governance. Finally, I will submit another document. I must admit that when I read it, I read it a second and a third time. Date of birth: 1 October 2018, Hellenic Republic, Ministry of Economy and Development. The sender is the Management Authority of the Digital Policy Operational Programme and is addressed to the Ministry of Administrative Reform. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what does the Ministry of National Economy say at the Ministry of Administrative Reform? It says that I reject the project to upgrade the public key infrastructure of the Greek government, a budget of 1,487,000 euros. Do you know what this public key is? It is the basis on which the digital signature will be based, the digital exchange of documents between the hundreds of fifty thousand public bodies or individuals. And this action is correctly rejected by the Management Authority on 1 October 2018. You know why he's rejected? On the third page of the decision signed by the competent special secretary, he says that the rejection is because one body, that is, the Ministry of Administrative Reform, instead of carrying out its duties, assigns them on behalf of another, which means that a mere transfer of tasks of the Ministry of Administrative Reform to the academic network is concealed. Instead of working together, the Ministry of Administrative Reform in the academic network is doing the whole thing. I believe that the present Minister for Digital Policy should intervene and see exactly what is happening, because this is how the modernization of the entire public administration is going. And I shall end with an amendment, which you tabled, Mr Minister, and I would ask you to have your attention. You didn't testify. It was filed by ten or fifteen SYRIZA MPs. Apparently, you asked them to testify. But that is well known. Because this amendment is incomprehensible to some people, I would like to ask you a question. Do we well understand from reading that you are removing from the National Telecommunications and Post Commission the right to extend the scope of regional stations and take it to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u30	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u31	I hope, therefore, that we did not read correctly - unfortunately, we are not here the Members who have signed it, and I do not ask them to document it - I ask at least the Minister, who I imagine will make it acceptable, to have the interpretations so that we know how we will be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you for the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Maniotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and two teachers - attending them from the 11th Patras High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell the students that they are attending a sitting in Parliament in connection with the adoption of a law. As you know, the functions of the House are mostly two. One is legislative work and the other is parliamentary control, namely that Members can exercise control over the government by means of some procedure. This is done in the context of Members' duties. Today you are attending the meeting. Members speak from different parties and have a certain speaking time. The Minister attends and listens and in the end answers. At the end of the bill, which is now being passed by the state. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Antony Gregos, has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Before this meeting another meeting was held at which requests for immunity were examined for Members of Parliament. The first was for Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the second was not approved for the Sahinides competitor, which was approved. People see them and they laugh. You'll understand if you follow the process. We have also denounced in the committee in advance that you will bring unreasonable amendments again and of course you are doing so, and now too, very important amendments to which I shall refer in my second place. We have again heard some defending former Prime Minister Constantine Simitis. That's really unbelievable. We may see some things about bank accounts, but no one talks about Costas Simitis, what happened on that tragic night of the Imales. I am talking about that great treason which has taken place at the expense of our country. Because of the day I would also like to wish from a step in the House many years, health and power to all members of the Armed Forces. So I come to the bill. This is another European directive that comes to be incorporated into national legislation. We are talking about Directive 2016/1148/EU on measures for a high level of security of internet and information systems across the Union, also called the NIS Directive, which aims to adopt measures by all Member States on a high, common level of security of Internet and information systems across the Union. The main points of the directive were raised at the meeting of the committee responsible. For time economy, I mention, for example, that a network of intervention teams is being set up for incidents concerning computer safety throughout the European Union. A cooperation group between the Member States is hereby established. Security obligations shall be established for key service operators and for digital service providers. The NIS Directive recommends that Member States take legislative and organisational initiatives to prevent, handle and deal with the risks and incidents that threaten network and information security. In addition, critical infrastructure providers, social networking and information exchange service providers, as well as public services, should adopt risk management practices and report relevant safety incidents to their central services. Under a Directive, Member States should, on the basis of criteria, define in principle which undertakings provide basic or vital services in areas of importance, such as energy, transport, health and financial services, in order to take appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage risks, to prevent and minimise the impact of incidents and to notify the competent authority without undue delay of incidents with a serious impact on the follow-up of the key services they provide. The Directive also requires digital service providers, including electronic shops, search engines and new computer services, to identify and take appropriate and proportionate technical and organisational measures to manage risks and to prevent and minimise the impact of security incidents. At the same time, they should notify the competent authority without undue delay of any event having a significant impact. Entities that have not been identified as basic service operators and are not digital service providers may notify on a voluntary basis incidents with a serious impact following the services they provide. As far as our country is concerned, what should be concerned is that there is no official national strategy on cybersecurity, so there is no proper basis for implementing this directive. Also, there are many different public and private bodies dealing with the cybercrime. These include, for example, on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence, the Department of Cyber Defence of the General Staff of National Defence, OHIM, as well as the OHIM as responsible for issuing the National Security Regulation on security policies and specific projects implemented by the Ministries, public services and legal entities governed by public law. The National Information Service, known as the National Information Service, according to Law 39/2008, is responsible for the National CERT and is the National Electronic Attack Management Authority. At the same time, it is a Information Security Authority and is responsible for the safety of communications and information systems at national level, as well as for the certification of classified, so-called confidential material of national communications. Athens-based Prosecutor's Directorate for Electronic Crime is responsible for preventing, investigating and suppressing crimes or anti-social behaviours committed via the Internet or other means of e-commerce. It is a self-sufficient service that is directly subject to the Chief of ELAS. As part of the Ministry of Interior, the Department of Political Planning of Emergency, the well-known PSEAs prepares the services plans of the General Secretariat of Public Administration and Electronic Governance. There is also the Security Studies Centre under the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and is a founding member of the European Security Agency in Belgium. We have also denounced to the committee the pseudonym on the Internet pages with patriotic, nationalist content. At the same time, the Internet finds texts and symbols that insult and target people or groups of people. Right of posts have from terrorist organisations within and outside Greece - even the ISIS pigs have pages - to pages that show paedophilia, paedophilia and any kind of anomaly. A Greek flag or an ancient Greek symbol brings in penalties for exclusion from the Internet, while it is not the same as the hated hammer-drawn or some masonian symbols. Those involved in cybersecurity, I agree that prevention is the most decisive factor in reducing the will of cyber attacks and cybercrime. Whatever money one spends in order to protect, for example, from an online attack, the weakest link remains the human factor, as it has been shown that through the so-called "social engineering" ultimately the deception, ignorance or the well-being of someone in a key position is to open the door to the committing of an electronic crime or the attack on an information system. Prevention is preferable to crime suppression. But let's not have any delusion. All of them are being watched today, social networks, websites, Facebook, Instagram and all of this. Everyone is subject to continuous brainwash on almost 24/7. A central role in this direction of population monitoring plays so-called "Social Networks", in particular Facebook and Twitter, on the one hand, and the global information organiser, Google on the other. These modern technical instruments do something inconceivable in previous periods, the preventive monitoring of the whole population and the recording of data for all. The close connection between Google, Facebook, Twitter and other media with US services is also undeniable. It is almost given that NSA's direct access to business computers is provided. But the connection is deeper, more organic, more direct. Multiple reports show that the secret services of the United States have been actively, often even decisively involved, in the planning, capital for the approval and direction of these businesses, their sovereignty on the Internet property. The huge development of IT and network applications in fact are not technological progress, but a tool of various suspicious power centres and monopolistic circles. It is, in fact, a means of monitoring policy, but also psychological manipulation, and there is, in fact, no protection in any of this. The Internet relationship with power centers, clearly, is given. Nothing's random. It was no accident - I told the committee - that Zukerberg's presence, one of the founders of Facebook and a billionaire now in G8 in 2011, as was no accident at Sarkozy's meeting in 2012, with the Twitter founder, during the period, before the presidential elections in France. And these are just indicative references, because there are surely more. It is clear that the Internet, while it may seem to be a means of disseminating ideas and opinions, at the same time can stand against ideas and opinions. How many times have nationalist and patriotic views not been on the Internet's target in the broad sense? How many times profiles and Facebook pages don't fall for no reason? How many sites are there a day and are not available next? We are all aware of the criminal activity of the well-known para-state website that emits through the Polytechnic site with tolerance and coverage of all governments and is aimed at organising and executing hundreds of terrorist attacks. And of course he keeps emitting. We're living a new reality. Cyber attack or cyber war is a form of war or attack, where computers and the internet are used to achieve damage or inconvenience to the opponent, whether he is a state entity or a private, has a low cost and zero rate, a involvement of troops. Sometimes, it can be seen as a conventional war, in that the ultimate purpose remains to impose the will of one opponent on the other, such as in the classical war and the means of conducting which, instead of threatening or using final violence, is information infrastructure. The nature and motives of the attacks vary from military espionage to economics, from criminal profit to the destruction of the rival's software. Intensities in geopolitical feast have cyber reflexes, which has been widely observed in recent years. Many state forces use cyberspace and cyber attacks as a means of achieving foreign and defence policy objectives, as well as promoting political goals. The role of government information technology at the level of government function and decision making is key to strategic decisions. As I said in committee, in the next few years we will all witness a significant loss of state jurisdiction, as cyber jurisdiction cannot be determined or regulated by any transnational agreements, alliances or international laws. The concept of cyberspace and procedure in this respect do not overlap within the meaning of the jurisdiction of the State and goes beyond the national territory. The protection of the nation - state can no longer be done by the known contractual means, as cyberspace is a non-territorial environment, but it has a major influence on the security of each state. It causes huge dilemmas and forces state entities to redefine their security dogmas. The more cyberspace becomes a component of everyday life, the more urging it is that in future war this field will be a point of confrontation. And this is something that is beyond and above any directive of the European Union or any legal fabric. And before I close, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments. Observation one. In view of the presence of the relevant Minister, I would like to refer to his statements at a station, on which, as he said, some extensive incidents were not made on 17 November. The events were once again terrible in intensity and extent, the arrests of few to zero - and in Thessaloniki none at all. I have tabled a question on civil liability to be attributed to the guilty. The worst part of all is that the scum that took precedence in the incidents again aimed at killing police officers. By chance, we have not mourned victims at the moment. Because the Minister is also responsible for the operation of the state channel, measures should be taken immediately to stop many broadcasts of television trash that offend parties and citizens. The state ERT cannot function as a SYRIZA press office, regardless of the zero-seven viewing it rightly has. Because there has been talk of some hierarchs and their relationship with the so-called extreme right, I can inform you from personal experience that they are many hierarchs and simple priests who support the nationalist space and recognize that only from there will homeland and Orthodoxy be supported. Let me also tell you that, as Golden Dawn, we are very proud together with hundreds of thousands of Greeks who are in this political area. There's no way out of the memos. We have heard this before the SYRIZA rapporteur. And these crumbs you give to every bill no longer convince the Greek people. The keyboard's empty. I am going to refer to the amendments in my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u34	Before we proceed to the next speaker, there are some requests for a absence permit abroad. The Member of SYRIZA, Mr George Papaelios, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 28 November to 1 December 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MP of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from Tuesday, November 27th to Thursday, 29th of November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos asks for permission from a few days' absence - he will be in Greece - from November 26th to November 27th 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of the New Republic, Mr. Vassilias Kikilis, shall request a leave for absence abroad for 22 November 2018, because he shall be in Brussels. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u38	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We must now proceed to Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Come on, Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates into Greek legislation this directive, which, as the explanatory statement says, concerns ensuring a high level of security of the network and information system. This directive essentially provides for the processing of personal data, namely the exchange of information, the protection and security of the interests of business groups, particularly in the areas of strategic capital, such as trade, transport, energy, the banking and financial system - where big capital seeks to invest safely, strengthening its competitiveness and profitability. In other words, this directive serves the objectives of the European Union in the field of networks and information. This objective is directly linked to the European Union strategy for the free market and the free movement of capital, in the context of the more effective implementation of the Maastricht Treaty on the protection of the banking and business secrets of tax havens, offshore companies, the free import and export of capital and, consequently, the capitalist way in which the system operates. This strategy is served by the National Governing Authority as a single contact centre, in the context of cross-border cooperation between the Governmental Security Authorities of the Member States of the European Union. The current Cyber Defense Directorate of the Ministry of National Defence is also serving in the context of protecting the interests of NATO and the Americans. This so-called cyberspace, in our view, but also from things themselves, has evolved in the field of five tough imperialist conflicts and intra-urban competitions. Therefore, any reference to cybersecurity for the protection of network users in general and information is hypocritical, or at least it is not about the interests and protection of our people's personal data. On the contrary, the people's real opponent is their online surveillance by monopolies, urban governments, secret services, other mechanisms of imperialist centres. Despite the great debate on cyberspace, which is beyond material reality, what is strategically important for each state is the control of the information transfer routes, since the movement of the web data is inextricably linked to telecommunications material, servers and location. In the context of unrelentingly hard intra-imperialist competition, countries and monopolies are insulting electronic systems, intercept data from other countries and monopolies, in order to serve their own interests, to ensure an advantageous position in competition between themselves, of course, with permanent victims of the people. The Greek bourgeoisie class plays with these competitions, trying to secure part of this sharing. The importance of monitoring the routes for the transfer of information on monopolies and directions, which are given to the Armed Forces for the Protection of Monopoly Interests and the threats of such threats, is also seen in a series of work and dissertations, which have been prepared by the Armed Forces and have been posted on the SAC's website. After all, from today's policy on behalf of NATO and the Americans, patrolling the Mediterranean, setting up US bases throughout Greece, it turns out to be true that the Greek bourgeoisie is interested in taking part in this confrontation between powerful imperialist states, to get part of the prey. In the context of this extreme competition between strong imperialist organisations and capitalist states - the United States of America, China, the European Union, Russia - they consider that their economic prosperity, namely their absolute sovereignty, is a matter of national security and depends on cybersecurity. Since we are talking about a directive of the European Union drawn up on behalf of European monopolistic groups in their ruthless competition with other competitive monopolies, the European Union is trying to shield its networks and information. Considers the European Union's communication and information systems to be important factors in protecting their own monopolistic actions in the development of the economy and society, as stated in the explanatory statement, which is why it encourages cooperation with the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security, the so-called ENISA. And I do not understand this effort from the government, SYRIZA, the Change Movement to present ENISA as something, in any case, that comes to protect the people's interests and that it is for the benefit of our country, the Cretans, the island, etc. ENISA, ladies and gentlemen, is a centre for network and information security expertise on behalf of European monopolies. It has been created by the European Union to ensure cybersecurity and to strengthen the ability of the Member States of the European Union and its business groups to avoid leading and responding to problems relating to the security of the networks and information of the activities of the monopolist groups. Such organizations also have other imperialist centres, such as the United States of America, Russia and China. Also, there is a multitude of naval structures, as NATO, as it is of course, has recognised the importance of cybersecurity, playing a central role in the defence of the cyberspace, mainly aimed at protecting its networks from attacks. In fact, cybersecurity, along with energy-related control and fuel-trafficking, is characterised by NATO as the most important and top priorities. That is why the so-called 'government defence' to deal with such attacks with this draft law and others, which have occasionally come through Parliament, is of interest to the Government, the Greek authorities being closely interconnected with the relevant NATO and the European Union agencies. It is well-known that the ECHELON naval programme aims to record electronic traffic throughout the world. The Greek Armed Forces are ordered in such a way as to defend the uninterrupted supply, operation and profitability of the major business groups and to serve the naval interests. It is no coincidence that this directive involves, among other things, the militarisation of cybersecurity services through the Ministry of National Defence and the collection of data on it. It also provides for its integration into international services, which will ultimately participate in naval and corresponding European structures. That is why the draft law and the directive itself have no philosophical sign, it does not protect the rights and freedoms of our people. Ladies and gentlemen, is the internet finally the earthly paradise of information and information? Despite the superficial chaotic structure and form of the internet, in fact the network of networks, which, without doubt, is a grand achievement of socialised work, is a place where the production, storage and transfer of all kinds of information is completely controlled by large monopolistic groups and powerful capitalist states at all levels, from the movement of information through the various telecommunications networks, the control of addresses, until the search for information on websites, social media, personal blogs and go by saying. The control of the data is suffocating and is carried out by a handful of monopolistic groups. For example, the movement of telecommunications at both local and global level is controlled and carried out by a minimum number of giant telecommunications groups, which control optical fibres and global telecommunications networks. In the European Union 80% of total DSL benefits, from which all net traffic passes, is controlled by five telecommunications monopolies, with which, in one way or another, any other company should agree to have access to the Internet. That is, of course, similar to the situation on the Internet. The online content also comes from a handful of giant online groups. The search for information is from two to three "shops", which account for over 95% of the relevant services. The audiovisual material is also stored in two or three major sites. The same correlation applies to all famous online services. Even a series of services that theoretically promote excellent communication between end-users, such as Facebook, or known blogs, blogs, are actually under the ultimate control of giant online and secret services. So the major problem, today, is not the hacking of Yahoo. The major problem is recording and using all the data from Google either from Facebook or from various groups and secret services. For example, there is the anonymity of the well-known Indymedia, for which no one knows: Who has it? Who controls it? Who's running it? Are they French interests? Are they American interests? Which business groups and secret services are hiding from behind? Nobody knows. In conclusion, the possibilities for monitoring, recording and controlling electronic communications are more than obvious. In fact, the internet is a field of ruthless confrontation between the imperialist forces for who controls the flow of information, who influences and how billions of Internet users. Top-secret is the case of the violation of the Democratic Party computers in the US elections. Where did that happen? In the metropolis of capitalism! It can therefore be used as a tool, as a power multiplier, both for the strengthening of monopolistic groups and for manipulating the people themselves. So the question arises reasonably, saying all the above: Should we refuse to use the Internet? We categorically say 'no'. The Internet is an important productive force, the development of which is enslaved by capitalist production relations, as for any other technological and scientific discovery, and the real philosophical exploitation of the internet will be impossible as long as political power is in the hands of the bourgeoisie. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] At the level of development of productive forces, the internet directly makes an incredible amount of information and data accessible, inconceivable until a few years ago. It has evolved into a true “Book of Alexandria” where all human knowledge is stored and available. It gives the technical opportunity for direct information and for the transfer of news from all over the planet, opens enormous potential, which could launch social production, by multiplying the potential of the central planning of the economy. However, in the current circumstances, i.e. under conditions of capital domination in social production, all the information on the Internet is entirely subordinate to the profitability of monopolies. The great potential that it has could offer to the construction of the new society, which the Communist Party of Greece says, the working people's power with socialized means of production and technology, with labour control, with central scientific design, both through the fullest and fastest recording of popular needs, in order to properly direct the central planning of the economy and the more effective implementation of this central design, as well as the possibilities for exploiting the Internet and information in production, the economy in general, in education, in research, in information. It can be used to illuminate the supremacy and necessity of the people's power as the one-way to meet the people's needs. On the basis of all the above, the JRC will vote against this European Directive and therefore the draft law. If I may, I would like to say a few words about the amendments, not to say something about the second. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment, which deals with the trade fee, it may first of all be seen as a positive measure to a category of workers, on the basis of cooperatives, but it still maintains the trade fee in the vastly larger part, such as, for example, to agricultural cooperatives, professional craftsmen, traders and other categories, much more than when this tax is not a tax on real income. This is therefore a hypocrisy on the part of the government, presenting it as a so-called philosophical measure and, indeed, when it maintains all the tax frameworks while taking care of tax exemptions in large capital. None of this has anything to do with what the Communist Party of Greece says, namely, here and now - here is Rhodes here and the fuck! - increase taxation on large capital, remove tax exemptions on this and relieve people's incomes from excessive taxation, and make it on the basis of their actual income. In relation to the Ministerial Amendment, we shall vote 'the present'. We are also voting'representations' on the parliamentary amendment on digital television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty students and students and three teachers from the 11th High School of Patras (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Our dear children, you are also given the opportunity to attend the next three minutes a special procedure - emblematically speaking - which is done every year, which is the performance on the part of the Minister for Finance of the draft budget, which will be put into discussion in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the state budget debate in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will begin on Monday 26 November 2018 and will take place up to four meetings after consultation with the Bureau of Parliament. The debate in Parliament's plenary will begin on Wednesday, December 12, 2018, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of the Rules of Procedure, and will be concluded - within five or so consecutive sittings - by Tuesday 18 December 2018 with the roll-call vote. I would very much ask the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, who, beyond the budget, has brought the balance sheet and the 2017 balance sheet, to take the floor for the deposit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u41	Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting to the House the state budget for the financial year 2019 and its rapporteur. I also present a report on tax expenditure, reports by the Directors-General of the General Accounting Office of the State, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and public property of the Ministry of Finance, the annual audit report of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable. Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the House of Parliament and to inform the House, as you have already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u42	Minister, thank you. I am sure that the debate that will take place on the dates we have already said and decided, and the Conference of Presidents will essentially mark a new era for the financial year 2019, but will also mark the real exit of the country, if we consider - and so it is - that in August there has been a formal exit from the eight-year period of the country's eight-year Memorandum commitments, but that will be discussed here in the face of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. I must acknowledge that Mr Juliarakis submitted the budget with modestness and avoidance of triumphs and general positions on the contents. He referred to the debate in committee and in plenary, where we will analyse everything with colleagues. I simply have to say that according to the information we have and to the two possibilities, which have seen the light of publicity - I imagine one of the two things that is now true, given the question of pensions, which we directly welcome and I say to you clearly, Mr Juliarakis - the New Democracy is pleased that pension cuts are not cut. We believe - we had put it as a parliamentary position by amendment - that the Greek society at this juncture could not withstand the further reduction in pensions. However, we believe that the analysis of the budget you have tabled will lead to a perception of the deadlocks to which your economic policy leads. I would like to disprove myself from the debate and the final conclusion. I fear, however, that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u48	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I would say that it is not exactly the first Memorandum of Understanding of this State, since we are under enhanced supervision, given that the European Commission will carry out an assessment of the public's dues to private individuals, who have caught a ceiling, in an assessment of the staffing of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, of the delay in privatizations, of changes in the public sector. So I would say that we should keep a small basket in relation to the memorial or latent Memorial regime in this budget. There is also the warning of the EUR 600 million, which has not yet taken place, namely profits from the Eurosystem. All this, of course, depends on the performance of the Greek economy, as it will be checked, will be assessed by the European Commission. This is my first basic comment. We do have the meetings before us, at which everyone will develop their arguments. I would say that a budget, in order to succeed in Greece, should be clearly developmental, with confidence in the private sector. If at some point the governors of this country - whoever they are - during the years perceive that the 'global cow' of this society is the Greek private who produces, researches, innovates, exports, hires, perhaps things are better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u52	Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr Minister, the budget has just been submitted to Parliament. It is characterized by your Government as the first memorial budget. I think we should speak with much greater honesty to the Greek people. commitments have been signed for the years to come, which are a heavy programme for the country. Of course, they will all be discussed in the committees and we do not need to say any more today. All I would like to point out is this central issue: your budget, as in previous years, has as one main objective the only financial objective of achieving excessive primary surpluses. From where we were talking about deficits in our country, we have reached the very opposite end, which is problematic, chasing too much primary surpluses, which, in order to achieve, is a question of shameful measures. No country for so many years, as foreseen, can operate with primary surpluses of more than 3.5%. This must be a central objective for the negotiation of the country and for the next budgets, the objective of surpluses falling to 2%, after negotiating with the partners. In order to be able to develop the budget and not actually strangle through the tax procedure. Because this budget is not a development budget, and in fact it has a rational voluntary recycling of poverty. Sustainable, reasonable primary surpluses must be agreed, and in this context we must aim for sustainable development and not take ten, as we said yesterday in public, and give back one with a logic of voluntary recycling of poverty. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u56	This - not to say with genuine Greek - story, the history of the memorial budget and the memorial era is ironic. It is a memorial period with seven hundred Memorandum Laws valid in full and nobody is removed. So we have a memorial era with the power of all the Memorandum Laws. Secondly, it is a Memorandum of Understanding and Memorandum of Understanding with commitments by 2060 for the surpluses, with measures to be implemented from 2019 and 2020, most of which will be one-sided in favour of capital. Memorandum of Understanding, but irony is the case, I would say, Commissioner, on the part of the European Union, six-monthly control and everything else. So, we've got a myth, everything's decided, and it's just the title stays. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] As far as the budget is concerned, it is a tough, deep class budget. Don't tell us about the crumbs they share. Why is he tough and classic? Because the new budget also takes much more, many billions - we will see this in the debate - of the many, of the workers, the employees, the people's strata, with measures that have been put in place to the point of abolishing the CSCE and, on the other hand, it begins to give even more to the large capital. It does not take any measures, but not a single measure - to get from those who possess the wealth, which is unblemished and say that there is no money. It does not detract from the privileges of the shipowners either. The opposite: it reduces taxation gradually from 29% to 23%. The New Democracy says to go to 20%, so pay more for the popular layers, for which it is cut. It reduces taxation on distributed profits from 15% to 10% and workers, working class and popular strata brings a new tax storm. Finally, as regards pensions, the New Democracy welcomes this point. Oh, of course! You've been cut so many times, we've lost the account. So I'm going to say fat, you and SYRIZA cut off the pensions 15 times, and now you're celebrating, and they're not cutting off any more. That for us is literally disgraceful. You are making fun of an entire people by saying 'we are no longer cutting off your pensions'. It is also said that 'we have passed the Memorandum'. But what should be done is an increase in pensions, so that we can return to previous normality. We believe that everyone will - and the Greek people must - give a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, eleven members of the European Public Law Agency. The House welcomes them to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Juliarakis has the floor. Do you have five minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u58	I need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u59	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, first of all, I am pleased that the opposition welcomes the government's great success in canceling the measure to cut the personal differences between main and secondary pensions, which the 2019 budget incorporates. I did not intend to place myself on the budget because I did not want to use an obvious advantage that I have to know what each page says. I would, of course, expect the opposition to study the budget before it is placed on it and to have a real debate in committee and in plenary over the next few days and weeks. However, since the issue has been raised and everyone has been placed on it, I will say a few words about what it includes. Therefore, since the cancellation - and I stress that this is a cancellation rather than a suspension - the measure of the reduction of personal differences, this budget is the first budget since 2008 which includes a net budget extension of 0.5% of GDP of EUR 910,000. These EUR 910,000,000 is the first crucial step towards changing the budgetary policy mix, in a more development-friendly direction, but also in a more socially-friendly direction. I shall mention, for example, the reductions in the insurance contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. I will mention the subsidisation of the social security contributions of young people under twenty-four, a very friendly measure to create new jobs, especially for a category excluded from the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u61	The industrialists...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u62	I will mention the EUR 400 million for the introduction of a new housing allowance and a number of other measures, such as strengthening the 'House Help' programme, strengthening the special education programmes and so on. I repeat, therefore, that this is the first crucial step - the attempt to change the budget policy mix and rationalised budgetary expansion is not exhausted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Now on the agenda, Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Juliaraki, I imagine you will now go to the Committee on Budgets. I will then come there, of course, to find you, but I would first like to ask you the following question: I was listening to you saying that a great success of the government is the failure to cut pensions. Excuse me, but the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the one who alone, twice in the medium and three months ago, voted for the pension cut, when the opposition is blocked - and I am not interested in the other parties - the Potami told you that there is no need for a new pension cut. So, now you're heroicly dating, you tell us that pensions are not cut by the government. But the government twice, in this same Chamber, brought and voted for the pension cut when all the others had voted against the pension cut. So if it is a success for the government to change what it itself had voted for on its own, then how would you characterise the attitude of counter-population, which he was telling you from the outset and which he would urge you not to proceed with the pension cuts? The question may be a rhetorical one. The rest, on top, in the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to this directive on 1148/16 to be incorporated into national...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Amyra, wait a minute. Minister, do not engage in dialogue now, but when we have entered the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u67	I have to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u68	A comment was made by Mr. Amyras. Excuse me. I'll give you the floor, but that doesn't make sense. We have entered the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u69	I would like to make the comment and reply to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u70	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to remind you - and I will answer it because it is a serious question - that the pre-legislative measures of 2017, in 2019, were implemented after the International Monetary Fund and its wrong prediction that the Greek economy and the Greek Government would not succeed in catching the objective agreed. He planned a target, predicted a result for 2018, 1.3%. We got the target of 2017. We got the target of 2018. We therefore have the possibility of canceling measures which are unnecessarily and counterproductive, because we have achieved our goal. In this sense, therefore, it is a success, Mr Amyras. In fact, it is a success when the previous governments not only did they not catch the targets, but they created deficits that put the country where they put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor, but no more answers. On this matter now. Don't comment on the Minister, because we'll have a comment on the commentary again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u73	Okay. I just can't remember Mr. Tsakalotou's letter to the International Monetary Fund calling for it to be part of the programme, can I? Okay. In any case, I now come to the directive I have been telling you. Well, we live in a digital world and it's obvious to everyone that digital services are central to modern economic reality. Any incident of cybersecurity breaches, whether intentionally or without an intention, is obvious that it can seriously damage the economy and the provision of services, such as for the efficient use of credit or debit cards, confidence in technology is a precondition for the efficient use of credit or debit cards. The same applies to the huge market that has opened on the Internet and it is no coincidence that the European Union is counting on the completion of the common digital market to increase Community GDP by EUR 415 billion a year. The publicity lights may have fallen or dropped in May 2018 in the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, but it is equally important today's directive on the digital age in which we live. This directive aims to adopt measures by all Member States to achieve a high common level of network and information systems security in the European Union. The introduction of such measures is a necessary prerequisite for the proper functioning of critical services, but also for the protection of data from citizens, businesses within the Union and therefore within Greece, our country. The measures introduced into Greek legislation by this Directive are key to protecting the fundamental rights of citizens and businesses with regard to the uninterrupted, reliable and efficient provision of services and essential goods of vital importance to society. It concerns energy, transport, banking and financial markets, health, drinking water, digital infrastructure, online market services and search engines as well as digital neocomputer services. So, as in the meetings of the committee responsible, we are voting in favour of the bill. I am a little in the two amendments. I come to the amendment on the possibility of digital retransmission of regional content providers through additional broadcasting facilities. This amendment proposes the amendment of Article 37 of Law No 4762/2014 relating to the scope of the legally operated regional TV channels and essentially concerning the installation of additional broadcasting facilities for the digital relay of the signal. This amendment proposes that the establishment should be allowed by a decision of the Minister for Digital Policy rather than the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts provided for by the law. We need explanations on this, Minister. What for? We oppose the transfer of powers by the committee to the respective Minister for Digital Policy. So, on the basis of first reading, which I think is essential, we are negative to this amendment. But I am waiting for your reply, Mr Pappas. Now with regard to the second amendment, for the exception of the payment of the trade fee for farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives and social economy operators, etc., who are in liquidation or bankruptcy or inactivity, the amendment is correct in its content. It's positive. The abolition of the trade fee is in the right direction. We in Potami believe that there can be no trade charge anywhere, for any sector of the economy, for any profession. However, we cannot overlook your tactics to bring gifts by means of amendments now that we are now in an election period. And I ask: what plans will you go ahead with the abolition of the trade fee in relation to the farmer's position, and in particular the incentives for increasing people, farmers, the forces to come to the cooperative? So our vote on the first amendment is negative, on the transponders and on the transfer of responsibilities to substance or health, and someone else would say, from the Telecommunications and Post Authority, the EBRD, to the Minister for Digital Policy, is positive for the abolition of the trade end. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today and in the next few days, in view of the directive we are discussing in committee, will we try to respond, at the top - I think - to the question of 'how much freedom should we sacrifice to feel safe?' So today, in this question, in a bill which did not have the public consultation that the citizens should have, today, if you ask them, say 'uninformed' about what we are talking about here, in this Chamber, only one fellow Member of Parliament said that he wants to speak and speak apart from the representatives of the parties. And this Chamber will allow me to say that it is almost empty, with the Minister's advisers to numerically compete with my colleagues. This Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, should be full. This room should have been full of every bill. The voices, the opinions, the opinions should be heard by this Step here. Citizens should listen to their representatives from this one Step. Representatives are not the parties, they are the MPs, representatives of the people. So do not ask yourself why opportunities are being lost in this country. Opportunities are not lost, we lose them and we lose them in here, we lose them every day. I will not speak of ERT nor of the scandals of the former PASOK government. Many things are solved in dialogue. That's exactly why I'm talking about dialogue. So today, you are presenting or presenting us with an excellent opportunity, in our debate on the incorporation into Greek legislation of another directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, of Directive 1148/2016 on the measures we need to take to ensure a common high level in the safety of network and information systems throughout the European Union. This is a valuable opportunity to sit down and look at some of the results, some of the consequences of our weakness. The weakness, which presents our political system in organising, organising and concluding a public debate of arguments with society on extremely critical issues, issues that can change the way of life for all of us. Questions, such as those arising from the sub-examination of a European directive 1148, but also from the one I mentioned, which is being discussed in the committees by Directive 681, which will soon be taken the way to plenary. Instructions concerning both freedom and the security of citizens. These two directives move in the same spirit and have the same source. They are trying, in my opinion, to set the line, to set the limit between our freedom and our security. They are ambitious to give a tangible proof to the very important question that I mentioned before, namely, "How much from our freedom we must sacrifice to make us feel safe". Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that many of the challenges Europe faces today, many of the threats to the European ideal, have their roots precisely in the conflict over where this line is finally found, between freedom and security, between the protection of personal data on the one hand and the security of citizens from terrorist and other criminal acts on the other. The questions put are many. Can anyone really feel free when they're not safe? How necessary is it that we retreat to the issues of access to and management of our personal data in order to facilitate the work of the security authorities? Is it really effective? Does it really give us more and more access to our personal data? How much malicious action has been taken against our society, ladies and gentlemen, because we have accepted as citizens access to our personal data? These and many other questions have unfortunately not been answered. And that's where the problem lies. Today in plenary we are talking about the obligation of all the companies that keep elements of their customers to inform authorities if they are undergoing a cyberattack and lose the data of their clients. Today, in the committees, we are talking about the absolute 'false' of anyone travelling by plane. We are talking, however, on our own, without the people we legislate about. We haven't heard of them. We haven't had a dialogue with them. The Greeks are ignorant of what we are legislating for them and even in their name. Who is responsible, after all, for informing the Greeks about what we are legislating for, if we do not have it ourselves, if the government does not have it on its own, if the Opposition does not have it on the other hand? That is why I spoke at the beginning of my introduction about a valuable opportunity that we are presented with and should not lose. On the occasion of today's and the other European directives, I believe that we should take an initiative to inform the Greek Parliament that critical cases that are already considered open by the citizens have already been closed for us in this Chamber, that we have already answered, we have already concluded, without any dialogue. Minister, for this most part, but also because the directive should have been transposed into national law since 18 May 2018, we would like to draw attention to the government and send a message: Since now - as you say - we are not in the memoranda and we are not in any position to legislate, we could legislate in the right, enforced and democratic way. We therefore want to send a message to the Government that it must properly and in good time incorporate the directives, that is to say it also has the necessary dialogue, but also does not give the opportunity to initiate infringement proceedings of the law of the European Union, the Centron Union will vote'residents' in principle in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the continued absence of real dialogue with society and citizens ultimately allows the creation of a blurred situation, where questions are hanged unanswered, questions are suspended, thereby allowing forces that do not respect democracy to flourish and strengthen increasingly. I will give an example, Minister, of your competence, where the blurred landscape remains. What about the digital fee and the arguments that supported its enforcement? What about the 2% to 6% tax on high-tech machines - on tablets, mobile phones, laptops, printers - as a counterbalance for the losses of money from 'piracy' on the Internet? And I ask this in relation to a recent, sudden, decision by the Committee on the Infringement of Intellectual Property Rights to force mobile and internet providers to discontinue access to dozens of websites. When, Minister, will this matter be reviewed? When the "experts" are losing the battle, or when what we ultimately pay is not to lose, will come to be more than what we have lost? How many dozens or thousands of websites should they close to abolish the digital fee? However, we are aware that this decision did not have the expected results that some hoped to have. In conclusion, I would like to stress this: we need to do everything we can to bring the dialogue with civil society alive, especially on issues such as the Internet and its relationship with security and personal data. With regard to Amendment No 1804 and special number 51, which provides for the exception of the payment of a trade fee for farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, social and solidarity economic operators, natural or legal persons and legal entities that are in liquidation or bankruptcy or inactivity, we could only support it, as we ourselves, from this step in this positive direction. It's a fair and fair decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say first of all that because we are very few Members and because they expect me to vote in the Senate, I will be brief. They're some MPs who are all over the time. Forgive me for commenting. On the occasion of the fact that has happened lately and has something to do with today's bill, I would like to say: perhaps we would never know the truth about the death of a young man if there were no cameras. In fact, it sounds like we know half the truth, because there's another video that exists - it sounds, I can't confirm - and it's throwing even bigger light. Why am I saying that? The bill has to do with cybersecurity and cybersecurity. I remember once when we were going to make an appointment, I heard this conversation: "There might be Essen there. It is good to go somewhere steep, so no one can hear us and see us." It has two sides and two sides: on the one hand freedom and security on the other. I have heard it from other speakers too. I believe that this bill is a step forward and ensures not all, but a number of security points, without restricting individual freedom. So I think - I have seen it in committee too - that there is a good mood among most parties at least. I think it is worth the effort to take this step and wait for its results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The speeches of the special speakers have been completed. I must inform you that we do not have speakers. My colleague, Mr Katsis, from SYRIZA, who was registered to speak, said he would not speak. I shall therefore go to the parliamentary representatives. Mrs Zaroulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. You have brought an amendment which may seem to be beneficial to farmers, but I fear very much that we are seeing the cheese, but we do not see the lightning. After all, we must not forget that in 2019 the Katseli Act will cease to apply, so that even more our compatriots risk losing their homes, their properties, their livelihoods. Because in your 'democracy' a legally elected party from the people's base, the people, has no step anywhere, in any form or electronic means, we must give an answer to those who say they don't see us. Golden Dawn, banned by the media, even by the small regional TV stations threatened by the "democrats" in order not to present us, is the only party in the entire political history of Greece whose MPs were imprisoned and to which fines, blocks and prohibitions were imposed. And yet some nonexistent people say we're doing nothing. I will discuss briefly, to inform friends and enemies about the political struggle of the Golden Dawn: On Saturday, October 20, 2018, in our polypath Macedonia, which has betrayed a guilty political establishment, a provocatively unwilling event was to take place. The invitation, which was also published on the Internet, was in a Slavic language. The Golden Dawn was there, at the Saint Panteleimon of the Prefecture of Florin. A mobilization expressed the spirit of national resistance and finally the manifestation of those who have proved and have acted by a judicial decision, did not happen. This event, however, none of those who say they don't see us. No newspaper, of course, said a word. On Saturday, October 27, 2018, a gathering took place in Karditsa and illegally concentrating, a gathering which eventually took place in the stench of a whole system that fought the Golden Dawn with rabies and, of course, includes the various "patriots" who do not see the Golden Dawn. On Sunday, October 28, 2018, in a call from Northcontinental unions to gather a protest outside the Albanian Embassy for the assassination of a special Greek in the northern continent, Golden Dawn was there. And it was watched by TV stations and a lot of visiting pages online. Again, however, the sad partymen, especially the New Democracy, and also those in service arranged by the 'patriots' system who do not want the Golden Dawn, did not see it. Really, where were all these people in the gathering against the Skopje unethical plans in our Macedonian? At the gathering for the new nationalist Constantine Katsifa? They were absent! On Thursday, November 8, 2018, thousands of Greeks gathered to the Bulgarians for the funeral of the new nationalist of Constantine Katsifa and among them, of course, and Chrysayites, simply executives. From MPs, however, it was only two, because with the proud knit against the country's third political power, most of us have a ban on exiting the country, first and best our Chief, Nikos Michaeliakos. On Saturday, November 10, 2018, a team of Golden Dawn fighters proceeded to a dynamic presence in the Municipality of Kallithea by sharing brochures in honor of the new nationalist who died for our flag in northern Epirus. The people welcomed them with enthusiasm, and in the near future they came to the area with strong police forces. Why is that? If there were any para-state "activists", of those who burn the Greek flag, it is certain that the police would not come at all or that they would come so late enough that the children of power, who represent the anti-powered, would have left in peace. This is the country in which we live. a country in which people who hate anything national and treat with panic anything heroic, outside the logic of their feathers and misery. The only thing they want to care about the people is increases or reductions in wages and pensions, HICPIA, VAT and, of course, whether they will become the party that they worship, power to settle their own children. There is no time for the juicy to think about those who think in history, those who are overcoming the pilgrimage today and who see, through a glorious past, a future that is bright for the nation beyond logic, logic, either the police or the famous left. Golden Dawn is fighting in every corner of Greece and keeps the flag of nationalism high, in a stubborn state and non-state mechanisms against the junta of the media, fighting policies against all. For those who do not see us, then, who may be well-willed or who are victims of the propaganda of our enemies, we answer: The Golden Dawn is here, from the northern continent to Kalithea, and at every corner of our country. It is here and struggling, despite the fact that there is an unprecedented persecution and exclusion. Of course, the initiative for this dirty war has been taken by the paid stains and party leaders of the parties to the political establishment, with the first and best of the New Democracy, but also by the 'patriots' of the memoranda. To end all of these, if they want to see us, they will not expect the paid news reports on television. To stand by us, as they stood with a brave and unscrupulous will nationwide who were next to us in Florina, Karditsa, the Bulliarats, Kallithea and where else there is a field for political struggle, to win our homeland that is lost day after day. The Golden Dawn is here and will be here by the end of the world, fighting with the flag of nationalism up, for a new Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had a high-level debate in the committee and it seems that this issue is dealt with by the political forces with due seriousness. I think this will allow us to take the necessary steps to implement the directive, which also needs other legal instruments to be put in place, such as the ministerial decision setting out the obligations of operators in the implementation of the directive. Unfortunately, this debate was also an opportunity for the Qualified Opposition to take over the government's policy on media issues. I have heard Mr Castaniotis - and it was like reading Mr Samaras' interview at Saturday's 'Parapolistics' - going on the closure of the ERT, lying about the television audiences and, of course, once again saying that the New Democracy is entitled to what he did in the field of private television, where he left channels for twenty-nine years without licences. There you were Secretary General of Information, Mr Katsaniotis, and I did not expect you to say that. Because the general secretariat - I imagine - would have reached the ad counts of the advertising fee and the end of the use of frequencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u82	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u83	You didn't collect them. We collected them, though. We have received 150,000 000 so far, 175,000 will be collected in the decade from television licences and their price, and over 120,000 000 will be collected from the advertising tax, which remains. Of course, 40,000 000 were collected from frequency charges. So I think that here you should make an effort to assess your policy in terms of cooling and not pretending to be in 2016. We're not in 2016. We're not in 2016. There is the FEK with the authorizations of television stations, which says exactly that licensing - and this is a section - was made under the law of 4339. And I think it would help everyone to take the conversation down for exactly what television we want. I will now return to our subject. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that words such as 'government security' have increasingly begun in the minds of citizens not to be words that concern some specialists or some very passionate about computer issues. More and more citizens are aware - and we hope that this debate will also contribute to this - that these concepts concern everyday life, our transactions, the way in which we consume basic services, the way in which infrastructures are protected. So - and this must be made clear - the incorporation of this directive is about protecting the country's critical infrastructure. It does not concern a minor event, for which there are other competent authorities by the National Cyber Security Authority, which is designated to be in the Ministry of Defence. And I am glad that I did not hear any objection from the House on this matter. There have, of course, been too many cybersecurity incidents in the international area. A recent one was at Bristol Airport, where we had a problem with the operating systems of ticketing. These systems have been isolated. If the NIS directive were there, they would do exactly the same. They would close them - as the rest of them did - but they would also inform the European authority, assess the fact and then take appropriate measures. So I think there is a broad consensus here on the need for this directive to be incorporated. This is the one pillar in the cybersecurity strategy. The other pillar is ‘ENISA’, the Agency for cybersecurity, which was upgraded on the basis of the EU's latest decisions on its role and mandate. And it is very important that he is in Greece, even though we won him when no one understood what cybersecurity meant, Mr Manatis. We wanted something else. But it doesn't matter. Let us stay positive, that is, it's in Greece. His role has been strengthened. We also signed the extension agreement a few days ago, and we also had the positive statements made by the Commissioner responsible. The organisation for cybersecurity is in Athens and Heraklion. And, of course, the Greek Government, Greece, provides the staff of the organization with all the facilities that are necessary - and are conditions, I would say - for this body to exercise its role. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that in the heart of the new development model, the new way of development, new technologies have been introduced. I was in Sofia three months ago. So in Sofia, we signed a memorandum of understanding on the construction of the Balkan corridor, which can support fifth generation mobile technologies. It's the 5G. The so-called 5G is the infrastructure on which the service of vehicles without drivers is developed. So you understand that if we agree that Greece in the new era can be a transport hub, a transit hub, a telecommunications hub, a trade hub, it is very important that we develop these technologies and ensure, of course, that they operate without any other type of risk. You understand what it means to have a malicious person who wants to intervene through software in the course of vehicles without a driver moving on the national network. So I think we all have a perception of the criticality of these arrangements, and we are well going ahead. And I think we're moving forward with a great deal of consensus. Other things have been heard. It has been heard that there are delays in digital policy. I really didn't expect to hear that. The country was free of funds for about three years, precisely because there was no strategy, not even the strategy on the right side, liberal, yours. There was no strategy put forward. There was no organisation for completing, planning, drafting and implementing a digital policy in Greece. So they risked - we lost them - 1.2 billion, and we can use them now because the National Digital Strategy was created, the Ministry of Digital Policy was formed. And we are currently moving forward with over two hundred and twenty digital policy projects across the public and private sectors amounting to EUR 800 million. They are therefore projects that rekindle the economy, but mainly in their spread within the economy and society can shape employment conditions for young people. And here comes the big issue of the so-called Brain Drain. But, anyone who talks about Brain Drain and brain leaking and does not talk about the pay of these people is a hypocrite, ladies and gentlemen, I think. Young people if they had decent wages at jobs specialists would choose to stay home, it is absolutely obvious. I think we should all be shocked at the need to increase pay so that this phenomenon can be curtailed. I would also like to inform the House that the great task of electronic document handling throughout the public sector is in the process of integration. It has become a competition and now we are going to pre-contractual audit at the Court of Auditors. I therefore think that in the next few weeks we will have the establishment of the contractor and the development of this huge project, this huge reform, which will save the public for the EUR 400 million a year. Wasn't there a digital signature? Wasn't there an electronic transfer of documents? There was fragmentary and optional. Anybody who wanted to build any system and the digital signature for the official was optional. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes. So this is changing, and the use of digital signatures and electronic handling of documents, which will interconnect all public bodies. And so together with the work of the digital portal, which I believe in 2018 we will be invoking, we will be able to avoid delays, such as the ones we have - ironically - for the work of electronic document handling. Because at the moment we are in a phase that has been requested by the temporary successful tenderers of the work of electronic document handling to produce documents, some assurances. When the electronic transfer of documents is completed, public services are interconnected and the digital portal is built, the citizen or the company will not be asked to produce a document concerning him and may be found elsewhere in the public sector. For example, if a company submits an offer for a project in a municipality it won't have to go to the tax authority, to get tax information, to the insurance authority, to get insurance information in the Ministry of Justice too, to get the record. The identified undertaking will therefore only be able to submit this offer by one operation. These days, therefore, we would have avoided them if the work that we now carry out had been carried out in time. I come to the transformation of agricultural production and agriculture. I think that this is really a project which, together with the Ministry of Rural Development, we have planned and will implement. We welcome the very positive and enthusiastic statements by the Commissioner responsible. Mr Maniotis made a reference to a co-operative case using digital agriculture. There are many examples of this, and we must of course see where they are stuck and facilitate even pressure on the Energy Regulators to take action. Be careful, however, if there were no structured public intervention - and here there is a political issue where we may have very serious disagreements - the development of this technology would be limited, partly and only a few of them. The large digital farming infrastructure we are developing is about six and a half thousand stations and half the country's farmable land, that is 15 million acres. Each farmer will have the right to access these services. It is the first public infrastructure after many years with public data - I want to highlight it - and I mean, of course, that our universities and research centres will be able to use this data, the safe data, if we proceed in the vote on the NIS directive, to use and develop services that our farmers can use to improve their production, their efficiency, as is the case in many pilot applications of the measure, where we have 35% and 40% savings. However, and I would like to go back to this, without much public intervention for the development of this infrastructure and of the network, the country would remain behind. I do not want to remind people to think that I am going to create an internal problem in New Democracy, but large networks and government conservatives have developed with reasonable public intervention, and PPC and a number of other networks. The large public enterprises developed them. The private sector is not suitable for everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the amendments that have been tabled. I think the ending of a trade is very important. It comes along with the other measures that we are getting out of the memoranda and a affirmative, a positive vote of counter-population in this measure, is an assumption that the country has come out of the memoranda. I think that all the wings should welcome that we currently have the first memorial budget, the budget that reduces HPAI, the budget that reduces insurance contributions to the free traders, the budget that reduces or abolishes the trade fee for cooperative farmers, the budget that cancels the measure to reduce pensions. Please do not say again in this Chamber that it was our measure. It was a measure of the International Monetary Fund, which the opposition in Greece was also pushing for. When? Even when we hadn't won the countermeasures. You asked us to close this assessment with 2% of GDP. How life now brings them and there are no 2% of GDP measures, unless in your programme there is still a reduction in duty, as was the reduction in pensions. Be careful, you'll find yourself in a difficult position. And in 2020 you had the pension reduction in your programme. You were forced to change your position, but by closing, I would like to say that you should pay attention to the enormous shifts, because I was thinking a few days ago about what a fan of yours would think, who listened to you two years - apart from asking for elections - of saying that a fourth memorandum is coming. And by this kind of criticism, what does it mean to be a fourth memorandum? That our policy is very restrictive, that our policy is draining the economy. You said there was a fourth memorandum coming - you went to the criticism that we were policy-makers, give it all away. Indeed, a man who is reasonable, who is following the conservative line, will now be confused. You can't say both. I sincerely expect to follow the budget debate, to see what kind of criticism you will be camping. That is what I think will be extremely interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u84	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would just like to make a note of the parliamentary amendment and conclude it. The parliamentary amendment will be accepted. This is not a permanent transfer of powers, and I will explain it. Listen, there are the judicial decisions that would produce results which none of us would want, in other words, certain channels to be closed down on the basis of judicial decisions. What is the government doing right now? It says that as with the universal licenses, regional licenses will not be opened or closed before the normality of the national Broadcasting Council is completed. In order to do this, regional frequency maps need to be completed and we should normally proceed to licensing. The decisions of the PSE will be the ones to say who should continue to broadcast after the normal licensing has been completed. This amendment now - and I urge you to vote for it - leaves the status quo. That is, I think, an honest logic and an agreement that we are proposing to you to move forward. Because I repeat, I do not want to speak on a case-by-case basis from the Step of the House, but at the moment, if we leave things as they stand, there will be regional channels which will stop emitted on the basis of judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u86	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u87	I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u88	Minister, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u89	There are now judicial decisions which force the EBRD to proceed. I would say that this amendment will apply only to the period until authorization and if there is a question of improving the wording, we can see it, Mr Amyras, I have no objection. I suggest you come to this agreement, namely that the regional channels map does not change anything, nobody closes until the law and the National Broadcasting Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, Minister. My colleague Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I will try to be brief, but I am sorry to say that the position of the Minister, Mr Papapas, has been fully confirmed by the previous saying by our rapporteur, Mr Katsaniotis, that he had also taken up the duties of Minister of Propaganda. I shall start with the parliamentary amendment, which I have quite rightly noticed - accepted by the Minister. I would like to say one thing to the government: why is it gratuitous to its Members? Why, in other words, does the government want to go through a regulation it does not bring it as regulation? Why does he deal with these absolutely micro-political? When there is any conflicting interest, then the government to avoid getting the slightest political cost of its opinion, has some of its Members to bring an amendment. There is a difference of opinion here. The amendment solves problems, but there are also Attica channels, which are against this position. So what does the government do? She's giving up her MPs. He has eleven Members to sign and sees the amendment here suddenly. He looks at her one minute, he says: 'Oh, yes, that is a good amendment, let me accept it'. These things, in principle, concern seriousness. Now we're going to the general economic issues. He's not here now, Mr. Juliarakis, who submitted the budget. I wouldn't say that if Mr. Juliarakis hadn't made a second place, and if Mr. Pappas also did not invoke the Civic Opposition for its positions in economic matters. I'd say to the government in general, wouldn't it leave the talk days it is? Honestly, does the government feel that it is stepping on a solid ground to come here and abdicate Opposition on economic policy issues? I don't remember well or yesterday the Stock Exchange passed under the six hundred units to come back before, just a little above it? I don't know what's going on right now. Has the banking industry not lost around EUR 40 billion of the 55 billion of recapitalisation, or are we living in another world? Did banks' prices collapse or didn't they collapse? They didn't lose 39% of their value? What does the government do for all this? Does he consider that this is an economic health index and triumphs and claims that everything is going well? Has the yield of the Greek ten-year bond climbed to 4.44%, yes or no, ladies and gentlemen? What's all this? A vote of confidence in this government? Well, let me know. In Portugal, let's say, Mr Pappa, because I think I saw you with a tone of a triumphant minister of a government that is all going well and good - the relevant figure is 1.97%. A third of whom has the Greek bond on your Government. Do you have anything to tell us about this? To figure out what's going on. And this on overtaxation, on the surpluses, on the actual conversion of the private sector of the Greek economy into subsidized policies, because that is what you are doing. "You are ignoring" everyone, you are redistributing a few of the "lettered" and you are showing us here as representatives of socialism. As Santa Claus who come and give gifts. It's not material, it's not natives that you can buy in mirrors. What if, in any case, so good things were going, the twelve demographic differences from us are explained how? By the peculiarity of the Greeks who do not understand your benefits, your generosity, your magnanimity, your success, your ability? I come a little bit into another part of your permanent argument - and yours and the government as a whole - the issues of morality. Would I really expect a comment here on the scandal of the CEO, who, if I understand it well, is referred to as a malicious infidelity for the sum of EUR 120 million at all or am I being deceived? I would expect there to be, Mr Papa, a very brave government reaction and placement for the TIAD scandal, on the issue of 'Eleftherios Venizelos', when the concession for 480 million has been agreed, the contract has gone to Europe, they have checked it, they have said it is unacceptable and abusive, they have returned it and the concessionaire has agreed to pay EUR 1,382.6 million, i.e. over 700 million more, which is half of HPAI. And that's why no leaf was moved. The Government did not consider that it should call on the administration of the GOI to explain why it agreed to less than 40% of the price and why it made available - and this is its good interpretation - over 700 million Greek taxpayers. Is there any operation in any state on this planet, which a public servant would agree to, which would be EUR 700 million below the market value of this contract and would be in place next morning and the government would be silent next morning? These things cannot be accepted. And since we are discussing this, I will invoke something you know - because I have also seen the answer you have given - the SYRIZA organisation resolution on the declaration by your Ministry of the Digital Transformation of the Private Sector. I'm holding her in my hands. I'm sure you know her. Do you know what your party is writing here, not the bad neo-democrats, not the opposition who want to shoot you? They say to you for the moment: 'This declaration is a reproach for the Left and it deeply offends us'. It really offends SYRIZA's executives. It continues: It is photographic to the point where the few qualified can understand it. For anyone who knows the space at all, it is evident that the entire declaration is linked to the company. They tell you paper and squid! Your executives. It's with SYRIZA's signal over right or left - it depends on how you see it - and they say the government's getting intertwined. The Minister's reply on others is served. The Ministry responds, Mr Papapas - I imagine you are aware of the answer - that we 'we gave the declaration to publicity and have taken note of what has been said'. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u92	What company did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u93	I didn't tell her. It's in the Minutes. It's written there. I didn't say it because I didn't mention names in the Chamber. But it's in the Minutes. SYRIZA's organization, Mr. Amyra, reports which company it is. And since much has been said here, first of all, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, to take note of the report by the Scientific Service of the House on the bill, because it makes two useful comments. One paragraph must go and go to the Explanatory Report, because it has no legislative content. And most importantly, the start-up time needs to be changed. She explains why she has to change. Because it's a directive. You'll see. To come to the wider of success. I have in front of me the Digital Economy Index of the European Commission. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is any way of accurate measurement for the success or failure of this ministry, which has been created over the days of this government, it has a very important life, it is this Digital Economy Index of the European Commission, which is not questioned. If anyone listened to the Minister, Mr. Pappas, would he say that Greece will be the first, second, third? We need to take the individual indicators and see where we are. Infiltration of mobile broadband communications. What is Greece? Twenty-seventh at twenty-eight. Broadband high-speed coverage. What is Greece? Twenty-eight in twenty-eight. Infiltration of high-speed broadband. What is Greece? Twenty-eight in twenty-eight. Coverage of high-speed broadband communications. What is Greece? Twenty-eight in twenty-eight. Infiltration of high-speed broadband. What is Greece? Twenty-eight in twenty-eight. Internet users. What is Greece? Twenty-sixth. Twenty-eight. Basic digital skills. What is Greece? Here, we've gone a lot ahead. He's twenty-five in eight. Special types ‘E’ which means specialists of that technology. What is Greece? Here, we're coming to our Norma. We're twenty-eight in twenty-eight! Honestly, tell me, ladies and gentlemen, any of you with any sense of consciousness, seriousness, perception, can match the image of the Minister when he speaks in this Chamber, with the picture shown by the European Commission's digital economy index? The overall index goes to the last, the 20th, the total index. Because of this twenty-five other two indicators, we manage not to be twenty-eight in total, but to be twenty-seven. Fortunately, we are lacking in another Balkan country. And yet the Minister comes here, who has a perception as if the country were triumphing. Ladies and gentlemen, today for the country is not a good day because a budget has been tabled, which is not a good budget. We look forward to the next budget that the Mitsotakis Government will present at this time of the year with good time to restore things. It will give the Greek economy a sign of development. It will try - I am not saying that it is easy to do this in a year or a few months - to restore things to a orbit of healthy growth, but above all to a orbit, firstly, self-respecting the government, a orbit in which the government will discuss with society on the basis of truth and not constructions, which offend common sense. In any case, Minister, as far as I understand it, it will also be the last time you see a budget from the Governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on the parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u95	The amendment has, of course, been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u96	I want to place myself because Mr. Treasury referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u97	You have the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nines, I would like to take note of the deceptive and degrading remarks to the Members who sign this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u99	It wasn't for you. It was for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u100	I should like to reply to you on the substance, because you probably did not read it properly and in detail. What does the amendment say? It says about cases where regional channels have a problem of broadcasting among themselves because of a technical problem and in view of the licensing procedure provided for by Law No4339 - licensing which you have never done, either in the pan-Hellenic and regional channels, to remind them of this - that there should be an additional position outside the regional area that emits these regional channels in order to emit at the joint request of all the channels within the same regional zone, not for another area. For example, a regional continental channel cannot broadcast and catch in western Greece. The Regional Continental Channel will broadcast to the continent with an additional position and in advance of authorisation. It is therefore of the utmost importance to say, firstly, that there is a legitimate interest from another regional channel, as you said in the Attica Step. Secondly, I should like to say to you that the amendment says in detail that, following the submission of a joint request by the providers of a channel of content, firstly, and secondly, with the agreement of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts, the Independent Authority. That is what I think it is. I think it's advisable to get the labels back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Your clarifications were critical. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is indeed an historic meeting for our country, for three main reasons: Firstly, as much as the opposition is trying to reduce the importance of depositing the first memorial budget, which to a certain extent is understandable, this is also a fact, whether we like it or not. But what facts are, they are. Like, Mr Dendas, the New Democracy has tabled several budgets so far, which the Greek people do not forget, be sure. And it will need to wait long enough until the Greek people say again when they will again deposit a budget. The second fact is that we are debating today the incorporation of a very important directive, which is about the safety of Internet users. It is important because this is what is demanded, particularly for young people and young people who use the Internet. And here I think we didn't focus enough today. Thirdly, there is a further commitment by the Prime Minister to farmers today. By tabling the amendment, which will shortly be the law of the state, a commitment is being made by the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, where the Prime Minister announced the abolition of the trade fee to farmers and even the cooperative farmers. It is important because cooperatives are promoted not only as a left-wing idea, but because in all Western societies now, the societies of the liberal world, the cooperatives, cooperation in general, it is the solution to join forces to the large multinationals. In other words, the survival of small and medium-sized farmers is intertwined with the existence and proper functioning of the cooperatives. So, in this direction, we are moving, starting from now on with the first law tabled in 2016 for cooperatives, in a direction that is necessary. The Minister for Digital Policy spoke about the transformation of agriculture into the digital age. The fact is that we have taken a lot of steps together from the draft notice until it comes to a form that reaches its end, which you will see in very few days. Since then and taking into account the comments, particularly the work done by scientists, by people with a political criterion, by people in our own area, all these comments have been taken into account and we are in a form that ensures the public character of the data and the platform. That's the most important thing for everyone. Users of the results of the data from all this work will have free and free access to the data. This is for us the absolute guarantee that the Greek farmer will enjoy the benefits of this digital transformation. It's a huge step. Commissioner Hogan has recognised it and given the credit. In fact, on 10 December we will have him in Greece and we will have the pleasure of discussing this with him, as I discussed two days ago with him in Brussels. Greece enters a new era. Regarding the data presented on the state of the country, as regards its position in the digital world, do not forget what starting point we started in a year of memorials. Now we have the opportunity to move forward and the options that will bring the country where it really deserves it. And starting with the digital agriculture project, remember that it is a project that is to be financed entirely by the Public Investment Programme. In other words, the country is now investing in the digital world and in the future of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will start with the amendments to move on to the rest. The first amendment concerns the trade tax. The Minister for Rural Development was also mentioned a moment ago. It seems that in your Government you have read the proposal for a law tabled by the Change Movement, but you have not read it well. Why am I saying that? Because, indeed, our position is firm, that we must move on to such measures, such as the abolition of the trade fee, but not only in this respect, to those in the cooperatives. The gradual abolition of the fee - for example in a two-year period - is essential to fair tax treatment for companies as a whole. That is our position and we just presented it yesterday. What is specifically the case for organised farmers in producer groups? Today you have also spoken about the agricultural issue. We'll talk about the digital in relation to the farm. We told you that there was a need for incentives to farmers organised in producer groups and in cooperatives with 35% reduced income tax and five additional VAT returns. These may be real measures that will strengthen farmers. Can I tell you something else, because, Minister of Rural Development, are you here today? We have spoken - in the Ministry of Finance, of course - about the introduction of the Agricultural Oil Card. In three years' time we have tabled this amendment several times. For this matter, because I am well aware of it, I would like to tell you that in Germany they have a similar system to what we are proposing. We are not telling you anything that we want to implement and turn our country into the previous system. And I say that, because every time you answer that a memorandum was passed in 2015 and so on. Indeed, we do not tell you to go back to the previous system. We want a farm oil card to be introduced, all to be checked on the basis of the acres from the IACC and so on. Why don't you negotiate? Why don't you move on with that logic? Why are you ignoring it every time we tell you? Farming oil is indeed a major issue for farmers. That's a serious digital one. We don't underestimate anything. But I tell you what is most important at the moment, with which the government should deal, because that is also a matter for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Development. There are, of course, many other issues, such as the introduction of a special bank account for farmers and many others, which unfortunately are not done and which keep agricultural production in our country. I was in Kavala and Drama last days on a tour and I saw that even the ones voted on - for example, the checks are paid in the two-month period, which is correct - are not actually implemented. In the two-month period and not in the semester they must be paid. Do you have any intervention on the market in order to solve these problems, to protect the farmer, whose farmer they want to effectively break any collective action? Because they are concerned, they are putting milk prices on the market and we are currently in the situation with the large opening of a consumer-producer-price lane, opening a price lid on the substance, resulting in high prices on the shelf and low prices for the producer. The previous Minister came here before you and told us that it was seven times the difference between producer price and consumer price on average and simply told us as an admission. So the country will never come out of the crisis, it will be able to create surpluses, reduce deficits, produce reconstruction and discuss all the same. Of course, digital is also important for farmers. There are issues here that you need to see. As far as I can see, they've also been filed in the Minutes. Your government needs to see them in relation to what it said in the election and how you're going on at the moment. But that's not the point. I'm not staying on this. However, I will say that at least what is being done in the agricultural sector should relate to the agricultural sector and the specific needs of the agricultural sector, because we often go on implementing a general strategy, but we have to see how it can be implemented in this area. The second amendment, Mr Ministers and honourable Members, has been tabled by Members and no one underestimates the role of Members, at least of us. The opposite happens. But can I tell you something? You have not presented it to yourself, ladies and gentlemen, but the Minister spoke first of all about the amendment. That's why you see us rightly reluctantly. You don't even keep the pretexts. We say, then, that there are reasonable questions, when, firstly, this is how it is so that there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State, and secondly, when it is tabled by parliamentarians at the last minute, so that there is no debate in Parliament - even on a committee - to see what is happening. Because we're also telling you that we're trying to figure out exactly what's going on. And about ten Members come and tell us that additional broadcasting facilities must be set up within twenty days. Why within 20 days, for example? Give us an answer, understand. Do you need that date? Is there a time frame that makes us so urgent? Or is there anything in the back that he's bringing these twenty days? These are reasonable questions raised in relation to the additional broadcasting facilities. As far as the economy is concerned, today the budget has been tabled during the meeting. It is a major issue, which we would have all the time to discuss from now on. However, look: In the 2018 budget the primary surplus target was 3.98%. Next year was 3.5%. And what's left of it, benefits are given. - You have been told - the only goal of your Government has been the existence, the achievement of very high primary surpluses and then the sharing of benefits. And you asked, Minister, how we can blame you and mean the opposition. But I really want to tell you something about dogmatic austerity measures - measures of austerity - and also about the fact that many times we are already giving, we are giving benefits, a popular logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u105	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u106	I'm responding to the logic, Mr. Pappa. You will allow me common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u107	Tell them to the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u108	In addition, the New Democracy has proved why it has an anti-social policy and a neoliberal logic in all of this. The point is to see if SYRIZA is currently implementing a philosophical policy in the interests of the people. So I say that when you have austerity measures, pension cuts, tax reductions - I will tell you about them too - and too many other measures, to achieve 4% and then you are only looking to give allowances, that is both neoliberal policy and populist policy. It is so simple when we do not have a social policy, more reasonable surpluses, structures that give money to education and health, for example social policy, and that money should be directed towards rationalisation and social services in our country. And I also heard you say about the increase in pay, so that we do not have an exit for scientists from the country. You said we had to raise the payroll. Who keeps the government from raising wages or getting better wages on the issues of scientists? Is there anyone who disagrees on this matter? And of course, as far as tax reduction is concerned, look, this is where the country's Minister of Finance was. He was here when he said that if the tax was reduced, he would quit. Why am I saying that? Because duty-free has been reduced, but he has not resigned. But you are also coming today for the new tax reduction, which the government signs, you say you will fight not to. In other words, the Government signs reductions in the pensions, in the area of widow's pensions, the difference between old and new pensioners, and when one of those who itself signs is struggling to do so, it also considers it a success. You can understand that this is not a policy. Coming back to the digital policy you have referred to, I would like to say that our country first needs to resolve the obvious. Today, unfortunately, public services are still not electronically interconnected. This is what we are talking about in our country, that the citizen must go to a service and prove to the other public service what he has given the first service. This is indeed a humiliating situation for a modern European country. And we must first solve these very serious problems that exist on the issue of the digital economy. And we are discussing today a bill on introducing measures to create a high common level of security of network and information systems. And of course, we have told you that we are positive about the transposition of the directive. This does not mean, however, that there are no concerns about the general government's progress in the area of digital policy. The elements of the European Union are the ones that disprove what you have said before. The risk of digital underdevelopment for the country is visible and immediate. The annual European Union connectivity survey, published now in May, shows Greece together with Romania as a channel for digital performance among the Member States of the European Union. That's a time-consuming problem? Timeless! But he's also intensified these years. According to the European index, digital skills and e-commerce, Greece with 38.4% is in the last place, just above Romania with 36% score. Over us are countries that have been found in memoranda, such as Cyprus, which are far above, or Ireland. Therefore, whatever steps are taken, they are not enough. They need real changes. You have referred to the committees in the register of officials of the State and of the sovereignty. How many times has the government used it? In any case, this requires continuous information and adaptation of education to the new data. The changes triggered by the fourth industrial revolution, in addition to risks, also involve opportunities. The most important factor of production is new skills, innovation, cooperation. That is why what is needed is no longer expensive investment in capital intensity, but well-trained high-level human resources, education, that is, knowledge-intensive in combination with flexible, non- bureaucratic institutions, an appropriate regulatory framework and incentives for innovative ideas. We must move in this direction, but unfortunately, things are moving in our country in the opposite direction. Instead of flexible anti-Government institutions, we continue in the paths of customer relations, guilds, a syndicate perception, and any new ideas and technological innovations rust in the strings of a stiff bureaucracy. The government gives you battles for the past. You are opposed to opposition even today. Scandalology, polarization, which disorientates, short-sighted for tiny-party electoral gains, with the country increasing its distance from the developed world. The only one who wins from all of this is the so-called antisystemic, far-right and nationalist forces. Such vital issues are dealt with only with wider consensus and national consensus. Our task is to consult across the country's priorities in the new era of knowledge, the digital economy, the fourth industrial revolution, automation and information. Otherwise, we will unfortunately continue to see 'trains cross' and young people not going back, but migrating. That's the country's problem today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Vaki, has the floor. She's the last speaker to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments and provisions of the draft law have been very well developed. Therefore, I should like to confine myself to a general comment before entering into topical and urgent debates too. The main objective of this draft law is, therefore, to establish arrangements to ensure a uniform level of security of network and information systems throughout the European Union. Taking into account the fundamental role they play in modern societies and in the economy, the Internet and the exchange of information and taking into account the risks that may be caused to society by deliberate harmful actions, the European Union establishes a common framework of rules for all Member States in order to achieve a minimum single safety grid. Cooperation with the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security, ENISA, shall be encouraged to address a single strategic risk response. It is clear that the definition of measures to be taken will be in accordance with the stricter legislation. In conclusion, we are moving towards establishing a framework of rules that seeks to ensure the safe operation of energy, transport, the financial system, health, the supply and distribution of drinking water and digital goods. It is high time that we, too, entered the digital age and the fourth industrial revolution and abandoned a technological middle age, which we have been in for years. Let me make a reference to the amendment tabled in this bill by the Ministry of Finance, which provides for the abolition of the obligation to pay a trade fee for a number of professional groups. They are therefore excluded from the tax year 2018 and hence from the obligation to pay a trade fee to farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives, agricultural and school cooperatives, social and solidarity economic operators in the form of a social cooperative or cooperative association, as well as natural and legal persons and legal entities in liquidation, bankruptcy or inactivity. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that, for inactive businesses, the trade-exemption gives a breath. It enables freelance professionals and inactive businesses to keep their books even if they have zero revenue and expenses, effectively exempted from the payment of the annual trade fee. It is therefore one of the burdensome measures in the fourth memorandum for those concerned. And I come to the statement of the budget today in the House. I have listened with great interest to the spokesman for Officer Representation to state the joy of his party to cancel the pension cut measure. Your pleasure is welcome, Mr. Colleague, except for coming late and very hypocritical. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the Qualified Opposition has put its narrow para-taxial interest above the national interest. This is not the first time that the Chief of Officer Response has had his ambition to become a Prime Minister at all costs above the fairs of a society, above the fairs of a exhausted and seated people. For three and a half years we've seen a serial unfolding. Don't worry, it's not just'retire', which we hear every day. It could be called "the enthusiastic desire of the Prime Minister justifies all means" and the incidents are many. I spoke before about a late and very hypocritical interest and joy. Let me remind you that Pierre Moscovisi was here months ago. So I remember the rebuke to Pierre Moscovisi when the latter speaking to the National Representation left a sign of hope that pensions would not be cut off. I remember another episode, when you asked German Chancellor not to go back to the Greek demands. And what were those requirements, the irrational requirements? To be faded at last, to end austerity in this place. And not to go to the other episodes "Brussels, secret coffee diplomacy", not to go to the obsidian transformations of your party about the Macedonian, which I do not know from where they are dictated, from an opportunism or from a deep bow on your extreme right component, the one that did not accept dead in the Polytechnic or divided the dead between those who were inside or outside the yard. We must not go to all this blockage of the founding liberal principles of your resignation. However, this opportuneness, I fear, is not only opening Hailus to a nationalist speech, but unfortunately, it gives voice and step to the extreme right-wing fascist forms by hurting a society which, in addition to the wounds that the economic crisis has left in its body, must heal some other wounds, a political system that has lost its prestige and credibility over these years. There is, therefore, another misunderstanding as to the preliminary draft agreement on the State and the Church, which concerns the settlement of the economic part of this division. We first saw that, until the 'right of the Lord' takes action, which, in cooperation with the extreme right-wing component, began to jeopardize by misinforming. I would like here to point out another paradox, especially with regard to the preliminary draft agreement, which is not something terrible, but economic rationalisation and a mutually beneficial agreement between the state and the Church, which has had to have been made for many years. The paradox, therefore, is that the persecutor of the civil servants, his party has taken note of everything that has to do with the public, with the public universities, with the public hospitals, the party of availability and redundancies, the party that became the lover of the "Black" on public television and at the same time gave immunity for twenty years to the hijacking of the canalarchs, abundantly mourned and cut for the work security of the clergy and his public service. I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Committee, that you should bear in mind certain things and, in particular, the positions on the public sector as a whole, and let us welcome and embrace you, as well, an attempt to modernise the relations between church and state. I will therefore conclude with the budget that has been submitted. The problem now is, what are we going to be without barbarians? It was a solution too. What will become of us now without cuts and austerity measures? Because - you like it, you don't like it - it is actually the first memorial budget and it does not contain any austerity measures or cuts. What will happen to us? So now we have found the new account: the stock market crisis, the banking crisis, the banks' shares. Frequently. There's a problem. Only I want to remind you of this: the problem does not arise from either liquidity or capital adequacy of banks. The main problem is business loans. Ladies and gentlemen, these loans indeed amount to many billions, except that you have forgotten to include something in them: loans from your parties, the media, known entrepreneurs - strategic misappropriations. And of course, you should also consider how a memorandum has been lost in the recapitalisations, how many recapitalisations we have done without the problem being solved. Who were those who gave the “seawaters”? Who were the ones receiving them? Why have bank and stock supervision mechanisms not worked for decades? Who were those who sent their money abroad, destabilizing the banking system? Okay, a little self-criticism doesn't hurt. The budget has been submitted, and tomorrow we start voting on some positive measures, what you are calling the 'fourth memorandum'. So today the cancellation of the pension cut measure in an absolute manner and without an asterisk has been ratified. Tomorrow we'll be back. The reduction in insurance contributions, which will be up to 33% for high incomes, is introduced, while they are first part of the minimum contribution, even more free professionals, scientists and professionals. We are introducing the reduction of the ENVY by 10%, with an emphasis on low-value assets. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The institution of the rental subsidy starts. The housing loan for households is starting with difficulties. All of the privileged benefits - unless they are charity for you or Santa Claus, as you have said - children's allowance, housing allowance, social solidarity allowance, etc., for the first time exceed the amount of EUR 2 billion and create a safety pillow - I would say that - to combat extreme poverty. Appropriations for four and a half thousand recruitments of teachers and other scientists in special education and three thousand credits for recruiting workers in the "Help at home" programme are entered. And don't tell me that's the pretext, the hypothetical reason. And no one can claim that this country does not need to be recruited by educational staff or staff in hospitals, and now this country does not need to rebuild and rebuild the social state that the neoliberal modulator has built up. So this is where we'll be from tomorrow. We welcome you to vote in favour of these measures. And "Behold, Rhodes, behold, and fuck!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. Mr. Katsaniotis, would you like to make a comment for two, three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u112	It is very interesting that tomorrow we will live in the memorial era, that is, tomorrow the small shops of Patras will feel that they have no problem, that their tax is falling, their turnover rises. Tomorrow, the farmers of Aegialia will feel that everything is going well, and if the raisin is destroyed, the ministry will whistle indifferently. Farmers throughout Greece will feel very well, because their production costs will fall in the memorial era. They won't pay expensive electricity - I would say - it won't be expensive oil, because it will return to the prices it was before - it will strengthen the agricultural oil - the fertilizer will be cheaper - you know what it was with the DEPA and the man who worked in the fertilizers and then left and is currently being examined. So everything will be fine for farmers. Do you understand what you're saying? Do you think communication is capable of changing what Greece is experiencing today? Not one investment in three and a half years, one, half! None. What do you always say? 'It was the previous ones'. Three and a half years you're government, and that's what you're gonna apologize for. Mr Pappa, tax, tax on channels in Greece from 20% is 5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u113	Are you going to criticize us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u114	The tax on regional media, Mr. Pappa, is 20%. Is it unfair competition? You're with the little or the big ones. You reduced the tax to the big and small, you left him at 20%, Mr. Poppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u115	We might cut him down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u116	You may reduce him while you have left two years unfair competition. You're supposed to be interested in the regional media, which are the small ones, on their show, while they're being financially exterminated. "You may reduce it." That is the question, Mr Pappa. The second thing we have to see is that you said before - and I listened carefully - that we need to see a little bit of the pay, which I would agree with you is very important and has a responsibility for Brain Drain. You must not be proud of reducing unemployment, because 62% is part-time, half-time, half-wage, half-wage and half-life. But I would like to tell you about a survey published in the 'HIMA'. Based on this survey of people who left abroad, the first reason they left you know who's at a rate of 40%? Anxiety. The second reason was the prospect of evolution. The third reason was the inability to find work. So the anxiocracy, which is the nucleus for which Greeks leave abroad, is none of your business. All you care about is ten thousand priests to be replaced with ten thousand party employees. That's what you're interested in. Last one. We are talking about the part concerning digital modernisation in relation to farmers. One thing is that we should all have the political courage to discuss if we really want our agricultural production and livestock production to go ahead: the change of Article 24 in the Constitution. At the moment, Greek livestock farmers are obliged, because there are no pastures, to make only quarries. Forestry maps and forests are great rocky for farmers. If we do not change Article 24, if we are not brave about it, if we do not go to a great new resurrect in favour of agricultural production which is decreasing, then unfortunately our farmers alone with innovation, which really should be one of the pillars of rescheduling, will not be able to stand on their feet. Finally, as far as the amendment to the trade end is concerned, we are positive for one reason. We have said that the trade fee must be abolished everywhere. That is what we will do when Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the new Prime Minister and will bring the next budget to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Maniotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u118	I am not going to need more than three minutes, Mr President, but for practical reasons and because amendments have been tabled incomprehensible with the bill, I consider it my duty to table and read for this House a few points from the final proposal we presented yesterday in the Senate Chamber, which was presented yesterday by the Genome Fofis. The proposal relates both to the economic development of the country and to the creation of a state of solidarity. I therefore read the following measures in titles: ‘First category: Small and medium-sized enterprises. Firstly, reducing the corporate tax rate from 29% to 20%. Second: Three-year income tax and pension insurance for young people starting business. Thirdly, abolishing the special solidarity levy on natural persons. Fourthly, the abolition of the trade fee for all and not just for those who are partly provided for in the current Minister's amendment. Fifthly, to establish a special bank account for professionals, businesses and farmers. Sixth: Reset heating allowance in pre-reduction levels of 2017. Seventh: Recalculation and regulation of dues for insurance contributions up to EUR 40,000 to facilitate retirement. Eighth: Reduction of contributions and introduction of a upper ceiling for ECA contributions to small and medium-sized enterprises. Second category: Farmers. Firstly, the introduction of a uniform tax rate for agricultural incomes of 13% and duty-free on aid for the common agricultural policy, as well as tax-free on agricultural allowances. Secondly: Disengagement of insurance contributions for farmers from taxable income, reduction of contributions and introduction of a higher threshold. You realize that much of the Katrugalo law, according to our proposal, is being cancelled. Thirdly, incentives to farmers, organised in producer groups and cooperatives with 35% reduced income tax and five additional VAT returns. Fourthly: Establishment of a farm oil card. Fifth: Recalculation and settlement of debts in the OGA up to ten thousand to facilitate retirement. Sixth, which concerns most of the Greek province: Exclusion from pension cuts due to agricultural activities. Seventh: Reintroducing the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the supplementary ENPY. Third category: Workers and unemployed. Firstly, the strengthening of workers and the unemployed and the treatment of poverty. Secondly, reintroducing the minimum wage system by the social partners and the national collective labour agreement. Thirdly, reintroducing the institution of reinvigoration. Fourthly, the creation of new jobs in the private sector with an incentive to reduce taxation in a simple way. In other words, for every 100 euros wage and insurance costs, the small and medium-sized businessman is exempted for 150 euros. In other words, we are giving a 50% bonus to the employer so that there is an incentive to create new jobs. Finally, because we will also have the question of pensioners, I mention our three proposals very specifically for pensioners. Firstly, a minimum guaranteed income for one retired person at EUR five hundred and EUR seven hundred for the couple. Secondly, the abolition of the incredible, inhuman injustice on widow's pensions. Thirdly, a 50% reduction in the contribution to care and participation in medicines.' Mr President, thank you for your understanding, I should like to close my position by pointing out that I believe that what we are putting forward as a movement of change and democracy is a genuinely progressive proposal and would be of interest to it, given that we have all the necessary financial space, to listen to the Government's position, on the occasion of the budget debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 53 students and students and 4 teachers from the 3rd General School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague Mrs Gara has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor, and I would have been very brief, but I think the courage in this House goes a long way, because it wants courage from the rapporteur in the New Democracy to ask us to apologise for all that we have done over the last three and a half years. First of all, he asked us whether the life of the farmers would improve, whether they would change everything in one day. They won't change everything in one day. But they are slowly improving because we are working in this direction. However, I wonder: All these years, what was the plan for the agricultural sector? Because we were filled with tractors, which the farmers did not use, and eventually imports increased, because we did not have production. There were no reafforestations, no infrastructure. Please tell me a modern infrastructure which has happened over the past twenty years in the agricultural sector. I'm in a rural area and we see them very well. There have been infrastructures in the agricultural sector for over forty years! And we come and say that we use public tools, we use all the tools and funding to create public infrastructures that will improve life and production, obviously, the farmers, and you want to change everything in a day in a direction that we obviously do not agree. Because you want to share everything in the private sector. And here you asked what the big investment is. You are probably not well informed, because you see large investments that have been made over the past three years in tourism, coastal shipping, the tobacco industry, digital technologies and much more. But you still have particular courage when your years of governance especially from northern Greece saw hundreds of businesses leave in other countries and moved their homes along with the scientists and workers who were working there. It's over! What are we gonna apologize for? Obviously, we'll apologise and apologize, because we cut the robbery, cut the remula, put order, brought a budget that has no cuts, got the country out of the crisis. Tell me a measure of what you have taken in previous years - why you have put us in the memos - which you have taken back. One metre! Because we did, in difficult times we legislated, most of them did not apply and now we get them back. That's why we've succeeded, and that's why we're gonna apologize. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you want to say something? Because we're going to close the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u122	For the standard, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added at the end of the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Tourism is closed. Information: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the Union and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixteen articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you have, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that the Members should not leave because they should sign the Minutes at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u124	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u125	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u126	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the Union and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u128	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-21-S1-commons.u129	With the agreement of the House at 17.01; the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 22 November at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions", in accordance with the supplementary agenda.
