ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on the economy, the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments made by the Government. According to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and of the Chief of Staff of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the time. The length of speech by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Democratic Independence, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the JRC, the Independent Greeks, the River and the Centron Union are twenty minutes of the time for each. Up to two Ministers shall take part in the debate. As far as I know, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development Mr Drasakis and Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotos will be involved. As you know, the two main ministers will attend this sitting and be given the floor, as I have said. In accordance with Article 143(4), the speaking time of the ministers shall be up to 10 minutes of the hour. The speaking time of the Minister intervening at the stage of the main speeches or at the end of the speeches or the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be limited to half of the speaking time they are entitled to. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. As we have done other times, the two Ministers will speak after the first speech of all the Heads and also, after the second speech and make use of or will not be used by the Prime Minister of his third speech. We'll see about that in the process. I very much ask Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u2	Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to thank you very much for this opportunity you have given me today. I do not know who they are, who advise you to make such gifts to me, but I am very pleased to accept that we have this opportunity today for a substantial dialogue, in detail, on the issues of the economy, only a few days after the country's great and historic success in the previous Eurogroup on 21 June. And, of course, I could only say how happy I am, because I think that in the last eight years in particular, there has never been an opportunity for Prime Minister of the country to be able to speak in detail in a debate on the economy in so many of these gathered positive developments in the Greek economy. So let's get things done. Let's start comparing the situation of the country, the Greek economy, when you handed over power in January 2015, and where we are today. We have received a dramatic situation, according to the social indicators, and, above all, with unemployment being at 27%, and even on your days, it has reached the 28% disgraceful historical record and, at the same time, youth unemployment at the time approaching 60%, a record that will probably remain unstoppable in the history of Europe. One out of three Greek citizens was unemployed and two out of three were unemployed. Within the five years of the first two programmes, there were eight hundred fifty thousand lost jobs, from 2010 to 2014. Also, where you were supposed to build the success story in the budget, you achieved the ultimate double fiasco. On the one hand, you have broadly signed for surpluses of 4.5% of GDP by 2018 and on the other, as a result, you have never even managed to approach them. Even in the first year, when the target was 1.5%, you arrived, struggling and hard-trained, at 0,2%. So, what did you manage? Create an economy, which, based on the institution report in May 2014, was, as they said then, "reversely off-road". At the same time, however, you had the courage to promptly announce the end of the memorials and, as a feat, swollen the test and fully protected exit to the markets in May 2014. But tell us what happened to your next attempt to get out of the market? It was a disaster, because not only did you not have any regulation on the debt, but you did not go ahead with any substantial structural reform, except in cuts which, unorthodoxly structured, were not capable of leading to budgetary equilibrium. And while you consciously misinterpreted the Greek citizens that we were a few months before the exit, the lenders said that the Greek economy was derailed, the markets continued to view Greek money bonds as "fail state". Of course, when you realised that this communication campaign was sinking and electoral defeat was inevitable, what did you do? You have only been concerned about how to drug the country's prospects and how to organise the next government's smuggling plan in order to find it in front of empty funds and against the possibility of financial suffocation. So what exactly do you want us to compare, with what we received in 2015 and where are we today? It's about day by night. On August 20th, in a few days from today, for your great distress, it seems, Greece is coming out clearly, definitively, irrevocably and safely from the memoranda that your governments have led the place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Where three of your governments failed, our government succeeded. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not just on paper. The image of the country has changed, both inside and outside. Unemployment has fallen over three years by seven points. Youth unemployment has declined close to twenty units. You lost eight hundred and fifty thousand jobs. We created three hundred thousand new jobs. And this figure is expected to increase significantly both this year and in the coming years. The budgetary targets for each year in the third programme have been overstated. Indeed, this has happened without the need for new rounds of unbearable cuts for the social majority. Also, after nearly a decade, Greece records positive growth rates. In 2017, GDP growth was close to 1.5% and already, in the first quarter of 2018, GDP growth was recorded by 2.3%, almost six times the Eurozone average, which closed by 0.4% for the first quarter. At the same time, Greek bonds break down one record after another, currently at pre-crisis levels, at 2006 levels, while international rating agencies internationally upgrade the position and prospects of the Greek economy. The positive picture is reflected in the main indicators of domestic production. More specifically, we had an annual increase of 6.7% of the turnover index in industry in April 2018. We have had an annual increase of almost 30% of net foreign direct investment inputs in Greece for 2017 amounting to EUR 3.6 billion, the highest of the last decade with an even higher trend for 2018. We had an annual increase in the total value of exports of goods and services in April 2018 by 11.6%. And of course, with regard to tourism, the recent figures in April showed an increase of 11% over last year, reminding me that a historical record of over 30 million visitors in our country was recorded. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is just the beginning of a course, which will continue from now on, especially after the decisive - and I dare say this in the sense of the word - a historic decision by the Eurogroup of 21 June, which is divided into three parts. The first is the final completion of the third programme and, of course, the assumption that Greece no longer needs to borrow from the official sector, but it can self-evidently return to the regularity of borrowing from the markets. The second part concerns the regulation of the Greek debt, which we have claimed since the great catastrophe, the great damage that we have done from 120% to 180% of GDP with the PSI. This is a decision that restores the Greek public debt to a path of sustainability and the most important thing is that it is shaping a clean corridor for the Greek economy for the next 15 years. As you know, the success of this decision or not, whatever we say in the internal political dialogue, is judged by the markets. The next day, indeed, of this decision, the categorical rally recorded by the Greek bond yields from June 22nd and then proves - whatever we say - that this solution was accepted with satisfaction by the markets and, of course, proves that it opens the way for the country's stable access to them and for return to normality. Unless, Mr Mitsotakis, you believe that after Mr Moscovisi and European officials, the markets are also part of this international conspiracy in favour of SYRIZA and against the New Democracy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The third part of the Eurogroup decision, however, concerns memorandum follow-up. And what we did not hear in this Chamber! For the extension of the Suffocating Commission, for new Memorandums, for the assignment of sovereignty by 2060, for the most famous fourth Memorandum, which appears to be not only your secret imagination, but also your desperate desire. What happened, though, after all? What we have repeatedly described, both me and the Minister of Finance, is that the Greek economy will be monitored in the form of reports on its course and perhaps some interventions will also be introduced if necessary, as is the case with all the countries, which have been in memorandums and have emerged from them, such as Ireland, Cyprus and Portugal. The figures in these reports will be taken into account by the Greek Government. However, the first and last word on the interventions to be made will belong to the governments elected by the Greek people. And that's the big change, the huge change, the last eight years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, Greece will again have the first and last word for the present and its future and no one else, in addition to the elected representatives of the Greek people. The situation that the country has experienced for an eight-year period ends definitively and irrevocably, and that is, after all, difficult to digest and react completely spasmically, in other words, to make people laugh. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not mentioned all these positive developments for the country and its future and for the Greek economy to convince Mr Mitsotakis. I think he has taken his way away from the real struggles and needs of the citizens. However, I have referred to them with a view to the Greek people who are listening to us at the moment and see that after many years there is, at last, a prospect for the place, which sees that everything we have done to get to this point has had a purpose. We did not go through a difficult compromise three years ago, just so that those who plundered and bankrupt the country in positions of power were not returned, but we proceeded with a plan for the recovery of the economy and with an endless aim to heal the wounds of the crisis, to create the conditions to improve the standard of living of our fellow citizens, to make Greece a normal, modern, European country. That is why I believe that the period opened from now on is the most critical period for us. That is why we have been working on the necessary interventions that will gradually restore the country to normality, but also improve the standard of life, the daily lives of the citizens. Our plan is clear, to take the necessary initiatives to further strengthen the growth potential of the Greek economy, to protect the world of work, to strengthen the negotiating power of the workers, to improve working conditions, to increase wages, to limit employers' arbitrariness, to strengthen even more the social state, not one of our fellow citizens will ever be left alone in the face of the crisis, alone in the margin, to have all Greek citizens access to a high quality public health system - that is what we want - to upgrade the functioning of the public education system, so that no one can ever think of playing in the dices of the smooth functioning of the schools, leaving them to operate without teachers, without books, as was the case in the first five years of the memorandum. Our plan is to take even more measures to deal with private debt, to do whatever it takes to support the highly indebted households and the sacrificing professionals and have taken too much weight in the years of the crisis. And since I am speaking about this, I should like to say quite clearly: the banks, which are highly responsible - I believe - must also be part of the responsibility, from now on, with this very sense of responsibility which the times demand that they contribute to this effort, that they also become part of the problem of the solution for the coming years. These, ladies and gentlemen, constitute a clear message for us to the Greek people, that the end of the memorandum is not a slogan, it is not a vague one, but it is translated into specific political interventions. And that is our purpose in the next period: Every Greek and every Greek woman should see as soon as possible in their everyday life gradual improvement. That is what our country needs today, to regain the collective power of its people, who have been "backing" for years, unjustly paying the broken political and economic system. I am well aware, Mr Mitsotakis, that you have such annoyed perspective, because it is not your criterion to improve the living conditions of the Greek people. That is why you constantly want misery and covetousness to be recycled, ruined and remorse. But I am sure that you are an intelligent man and understand the positive prospects that now exist for the country. It's just, apart from being intelligent, you should be very courageous, but you have never been courageous, and today you are confirming it again. Because you do not have the political courage to recognise that things in the country are going better. And you know, whoever doesn't have political courage usually replaces this loss with political courage. You proved this yesterday and yesterday by your attack - your incomprehensible attack! - to the Finance Commissioner, Mr. Moscovisi. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You have remembered, Mr Mitsotakis and the Members of the New Democracy, because the European Commissioner referred to the real facts in the Chamber of the Senate of Parliament, and addressed the Committee on Finance. You remember why he said that the fourth memorial, which is your propaganda 'caramella', are words of air, coarse lies and black propaganda. You remembered, because what he said demolished the political account you set up for three years ago. And what did you do? You got him a liar. Since Tsipras is a liar, who says "end the memorials", a liar, and Moskovisi, who says the same. And since Moscovisi is a liar, they are liars and everyone who immediately after the Eurogroup said even more clearly what the European Commissioner said to the Greek Parliament yesterday. And after a liar, Moscovici, a liar, and Juncker, because he said the same thing. In this Chamber, he even talked about clean, clean exit from the memoranda. Only to him, by nobleness or tactics, you didn't attack. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Well, liars, everybody. Liars and reality, when you don't like them, liars and European leaders, who at the summit gave us one another the congratulations, the phonies, the phonies, the phonies, the head of the rating houses, who upgrade us, the markets! All liars! Very good line, Mr Mitsotakis, you have undertaken to represent and maintain the next period! Congratulations to you and those who advise you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u4	We said, Mr Mitsotakis, that you have an obvious one - there is no need for me to say it, that the entire Greek people see it - communication superpower - so to speak - media and propaganda media in Greece. You have various friends of your family with various draws with justice - now the last is the truth - that for you, however, have bought a dozen newspapers to do propaganda. Convincing, however, that the sun rises from the west, a little bit difficult, Mr Mitsotakis! Don't you think? It's not easy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The most impressive of all, ladies and gentlemen, is not only the New Democracy's attitude to the desperate attempt to defend the lie about a fourth memorandum. The most interesting thing is the precursor that has caught them on the pension issue. What's that? At least keep at least a little of the pretexts. That kind of anger anymore, that panic, you can't hide with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u6	So he went out, otherwise very sympathetic, because he's modest and I appreciate him politically...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u7	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u8	All right, Mrs. Vulge, we've heard you. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u9	Mr President, I am not having a dialogue. I'm continuing my speech. So one of the two Vice-Presidents, the moderate, Mr Hatzidakis, came out - imagine the other, the non-modern! - to inform Mr Moscovici at the Senate Hall and speeded up the European Commissioner. To "fuck him" him for talking about irrational commitments - he's hurt! - to the extent that the objectives and surpluses are caught. To "slap him" because he said the self-evident, what we are saying - but rather from your much arbitrary submission you do not believe it, you are convinced of the other way round - that from now on the Greek governments will decide on the mix of policy, as long as they catch the agreed budgetary targets. I mean, he said self-evident. But you, probably, "he bit you a fly." Listening to your rhetoric and your attacks over the last few days, the conclusion is one: you are after all keenly seeking to cut pensions and you are shaking that chance at the end of the day. This is your great fear. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We're used to your cynicism, but that was really revealing. These two days you have proved not to us, but to the Greek citizens, to every pensioner what your real intentions are. You don't care about the standard of living of Greek citizens. It's not about people's needs. Your only concern is your political survival, your thirst for a return to power. You practice one single doctrine: the worse for the people, the better for you. When you see the possibility of things going worse for the people, but they go better, you completely lose your temper and you are exposed. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Moscovisi did not need to be revealed to Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. It is high time that he eats this sarcasm about the cuts and as we learned today from an impressive, I would say, a revealing post of "THE ABOUT"", Mr.Mitsotakis organised a whole journey to Berlin and Brussels. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You should be ashamed of that and not shouting. You went to Berlin to ask for assurances that Germany would press for the measure to be implemented. Shame on you, Mr. Mitsotakis! It's a disgrace to what you're doing! Shame, shame, shame! You must be ashamed to the Greek citizens, to the Greek people, to the pensioners, to your side and to your side, to go abroad and instead of defending the interests of Greece, the interests of pensioners and social forces, to defend your close party interests. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But because... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't shout. You'll hear it all today. Because you gave us this great gift of this debate in Parliament, we'll see you all, paper and squid. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] The last Greek citizen will take you to death.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u10	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u11	However, because your courage and cynicism have no limits, the same shameful attitude you have taken with regard to what has to do with the European response to the refugee crisis. Actually, what did you do? You went out and you blamed Chancellor Merkel and me without mentioning that we are doing bargains and dirty transactions, that we supposedly exchanged the maintenance of a reduced VAT on the five islands by creating new hot spots.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u12	Her name was Freudy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u13	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u14	In fact, no matter how much you yell, Mrs. Vultisis, there is no bottom in the barrel of your self-determination! You are self-esteeming before the eyes of the Greek people and the eyes of European citizens!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u15	You were yelling at her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u16	Please, be quiet! Mrs. Vuldesis, it's still early in the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u17	Mr. Mitsotakis, in this offspring that leads political controversy, but also your resignation, we will not follow you. Lead only by your cynical desire to return where you were born and raised in the chairs of authority. You are guided by some newcomers, opportunists and the extremes of the People's Orthodox Alert, who have become the ideological guides to your party, have acquired the full ideological hegemony. I'm talking to you, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Voridis! Congratulations! My congratulations! You did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u18	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u19	But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how different things would be for the country, and how different the attitude of a very important party, of the conservative party, would be, how different the course of the country would be, if you had not succeeded in postponing the internal party election, Mr Mitsotakis, and was elected from the first round at that time - because that was how Mr Meimarakis - President of the Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u21	With Mr Meimarakis, I had a strong political controversy. It is true that we were opposed to the September elections, but always with political arguments. I too recognise him - and I must acknowledge it, like everyone in Europe - that at the difficult time for the country, he put in front of what he understood as a national and not as a personal interest. I am sure, therefore, that unlike this shameful attitude, which you are holding today, and for you and for your resignation, not only would they not be humiliated by going to Berlin begging for a hard stand against Greece, but he would say to me: "We put our backs first on pensions, because if you manage it, it will be a profit for Greece and for every government, not just for today's." [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This simple self-evident thing you do not understand, Mr Mitsotakis, in front of your mischief to return to power. You are trapped in a deadly destructive attitude, ultimately harmful to the country. And I am sorry to say it, but I mean the phrases I say: harmful to the country. And one of the reasons why you of course lead to this attitude is that the end of the memoranda makes you feel that the land is leaving under your feet, because you know that what you have built with your partners as a programme of the New Democracy to address the Greek people in the next elections cannot stand without memorials. Your disastrous and anti-social policies cannot be justified without the alibi of the Memorandum of Force, because now without the Memorandum the dividing lines between the political forces are becoming even clearer. And now it is time to talk not about yesterday, but about tomorrow, to talk about Greece of the future. And the dilemmas before the Greek people are clear: With the eighth hour or the 12-hour of Mr. Kurts, who will meet him in a few days' time in Austria, your likeness? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] With the social state or the redundancies that are your favorite habit and as Minister of Administrative Reform? By protecting work or by crushing work? With collective bargaining or the work deregulation jungle? With a strong and viable insurance system or with the collapse of it on the altar of private insurance? With targeted tax reliefs to those who really need, or with the taxation of the great wealth and the gifts to the business elite of offshore, which is your specialty family? These are the dilemmas that concern tomorrow of the country and the Greek people in which you will be invited to take place, you want, you do not want. And because you know very well what path the Greek people choose for their future, what are you doing? You insist on ostracizing, insisting on lying and perversion. And at the same time, you also opened another front, perhaps more dangerous, toy, which you have been playing lately by drifting from your extreme right-wing team leading your party, you decided on a crucial national topic to divide the Greeks in order not to divide and keep your party together. But you have caused winds and I fear that you too will reap storms, because with your attitude to the agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia you are finally divorced with what you called 'liberalism' and 'central right', where your identity was in the previous period. I am not personally interested in how you decide what your political orientation will be. But what concerns me overall and the future of the country, because it is about our democracy, because it is about the political life of the country, is that by adopting the word and practices of a new nationalism, you are offering political coverage to fascism. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You gave the opportunity in the past few days to all kinds of nationalist and fascist groups to come out of their hideouts at the scene, threaten, covet, violence, organise self-concentrations at political gatherings of other parties, things we had to see since the 1960s. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] And supposedly in order for Macedonia to shout.... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen. You'll hear it all. Sit down. You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u22	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u23	Quiet, please! Mr. Kikilia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u24	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u25	Please leave the squares alone. Please! And don't write what you said in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u26	We know that Mr Mitsotakis thinks that the seventeen-year-olds today should not know who Lambrakis was and what happened in the 1960s. But there's no need when we remind you of them, to be ventilated. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And to yell, ladies and gentlemen, because it is serious about our democracy - in these counter-concentrations supposedly to express their indignation about the agreement, the following slogans: 'Major in the heart of every anti-fascist and arms, the arms to enter Skopje'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u27	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u28	Mr. Karaoglu, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u29	These slogans shout at these concentrations. You'll tell me now: “Okay, why are you blaming us? We are not organizing them.' That's not what I'm saying. I'm not saying that, Mr. Mitsotakis. But I'm saying you're responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u30	Remind me, Lord! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u31	I say, however, that you have a responsibility for this attempted division and for this extremism of right-wing rhetoric and practice. Because you should know that when Axis Anti-Civilization is being privatised by lending the rhetoric of extreme right and nationalists, it is a presumption that it will give rise to the hardest players in this ideological area coming to the fore.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u32	What's wrong with the squares? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u33	I know that what I am saying is annoying the New Democracy colleagues, but that is the political dialogue. Sometimes he has to be cruel, but always honest. So I'll say what I have to say, and let your Chief back up. He has the ability to counteract them, I think. You don't trust him? Don't interrupt me all the time. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So I say, ladies and gentlemen, that in this way one thing you do not understand, that you are also mortgageing your own political future, your own prison. You have had a historic opportunity, Mr Mitsotakis, on a crucial issue concerning the future of Europe, on the main topic that Europe, the refugee issue, is currently discussing, to choose the right side of history, to honour the liberal and European tradition of your resignation. You did not take advantage of this opportunity. On the contrary, you continue the good partnership with the extreme right within, but also outside, borders. So you are matched by the refugee with the views of Mr Orban and Mr Kurts, Europe's fortress that lifts up walls to hunters, Europe that refuses co-responsibility and solidarity. Europe, that is, the populists and nationalists who are not only threatening our values, are directly threatening the very existence of Europe. So you have been identified with them in the refugee and Macedonian Republic, and you are absolutely interacting with Mr Gruevski and the supranationals in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. You are saying exactly the same arguments in the opposite way. In short, then, you have chosen a camp in the debate on the future of Europe and the world, only on the wrong side of history. Until first you were characterizing yourself as a liberal, neoliberal, we were saying. Today, with your attitude to the Macedonian and refugee media, you are also characterized by an international media as Greek Orban, that is, anything but liberal. With the liberals...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u34	He took 49%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u35	Yeah, that's exactly your opportunism because it took 49%. You sell values, you sell ideals, you sell visions, you sell your positions, the deposit of your party, because you see that Orban got 49%. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you become far-right, more than Adon. Congratulations! Only here is Greece and the Greek people have history, they have struggles, they have values, they will not give you any more than 1% of this attitude you are holding, the hypocritical, opportunistic, the unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u36	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u37	I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that with liberals and neoliberals, it separates us from ideological abyss. However, with several of them there is ground for a hard political conflict, but on the basis of positions and arguments. A conflict, however, involving respect for the different viewpoints, because it starts with a specific documented political position. With no far-righter this does not apply either now or in the past or in the future. Because the extreme right, Mr Mitsotakis, is the last refuge for the political fraudsters, based only on lies, propaganda and division. And you, unfortunately, prove that you are following this path. And you prove that you want to record yourself in the consciousness of citizens as a political fraud. For at the time when you are scattering the division, at this time lie unresponsively before the Greek people. You the defender of national law, the honourer of truth against those throwing ashes in the eyes of the Greek people for the suffering they come, you are simply - and I will say this directly, here on the opportunity you give me today, before the Greek people - a political construction of the political elites of the country, including your friend, as revealed yesterday, by Mr. Guardis of "NOVARTIS". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The defendant, in other words, for one of the greatest scandals in the history of the Greek state, who you were telling us without shame that you do not know who he is. So the man you do not know who he is is is, he is obviously the one who organized, in your ignorance, dinner in your honor, and apparently in direct consultation with you. And in direct consultation with you he actively participated in your campaign for your election to the leadership of the New Democracy. And you had the nerve to tell us from this step forward that we also set up a construction on the subject of "NOVARTIS" to smash innocents. Again ashamed of you, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But tell me, really, when you opened champagne with Mr. Froze, how long did you think you were gonna drink to fools' health? And really, what did they all promise you? How long had you been promised then that you were going to be a Prime Minister and raped then and asked for an election from the first day you became Chief? But what matters to the Greek people is mainly what you promised. I'll tell you one more time, and I'll hang up with that. Mr. Mitsotakis, the country is no longer a chip, nor Mr. Fruzis, nor Mr. Christoforakos, nor any business agent, who represents the resistance in the buds, next to the bottles with the champagne, thinking that his wallet and his bank account are enough to raise governments. This Greece is over, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] The epilogue of this Greece of yesterday has been written by the Greek people, who is the only absolute sovereign in this country. Greece of yesterday, bankruptcy, interlocutory, corruption, is over. Greece of today and tomorrow is the issue, which is back on its feet, which is proud, which can look with optimism, which finds once again its lost dignity, which rediscovers its lost power and becomes a strong economic and geopolitical power in the European space and along with the great national effort for economic and social reconstruction, puts order in its homes and cuts the ties with the systems of the past, the complexity, corruption, the immunity of a political and economic establishment, which was despising for years the needs and sacrifices of the Greek people. So make this decision, Mr Mitsotakis, and I ask you to pass this on to your friends, the Guardians and the other prominent business players who think that the country belongs to them. They don't own Greece. Greece belongs to the Greek people who dominately decide. Greece won't come back. Greece stood on its feet and flies forward. You won't be able to bring the Greeks back to misery and undignifiedness. Put it well in your mind and you and those who support you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u39	Usually, Mr. Tsipras, you lose your temper in dentistry. This time you surprise us, indeed. You have taken out an incomprehensible irritation and perhaps gave us a foretaste of what will follow in this pre-election period, in which the country has actually entered. Before entering the contents of my speech, I assure you, Mr. Tsipras, that if you ask today, if you go out and take a walk, if you can, of course,... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, because I saw that you arrived in Thessaloniki until the airport. You didn't dare go to town. You didn't go any further. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So if you ask the Greeks to whom do the words "political liar" and "political fraud", I assure you that the answer is one: To Mr. Alexis Tsipras. And that cannot be called into question. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As many performances and cressettes as you use in this Chamber, this reality does not change. But let me begin by returning my thanks too, not for having accepted this debate. Furthermore, it is your duty, Mr President, to schedule the second-day debate we have asked for the vote of the Greeks outside Greece, which, on your own political responsibility, you have informed us that you are not prepared to hold. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is a parliament and the minority has rights. You will not be destroyed at will, Mr. Tsipras. Parliament has rules. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today's meeting takes place on a signatory day. Did you think so, Mr. Tsipras, when you planned today's sitting, that today is the anniversary of the 2015 referendum? Do you realize that you've programmed her? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then you brought society before the rift of division and the country in front of the bounty of bankruptcy when you split up and deceived the Greek people. You mentioned before our tendency to use as a New Democracy an extreme and divisive reason, which you said "we have never seen before since the '60s". I just want to remind you of one thing from those days. It's a tweet of the Deputy Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u40	Tweet 60'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u41	Oh, no. It's one of those days of the referendum. The manda with which Mr. Paulakis accompanied the referendum said: "The "no" wants Greeks, "yes" wants traitors, time to separate the wilds from the chickens." That's who you are, Mr. Tsipras. This is your Minister, a mirror of your political speech. And then you want to convince us that you've changed already! Who are the traitors, who are the wilds and who are the chickens, the conclusion will now be made by the Greek people. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So it has been three years since, from this disastrous choice you have of course not said a single word about your prototype. You may feel the need to return to your dentistry. The consequences of your choice, however, we still pay them, not only because Greece continues to live with the consequences of black 2015 - with poverty, taxes, with insecurity, with capital controls - but because you even today, three years after 'no', continue to rule with lies and divide Greeks. And yes, indeed, it may be that some in your family - since you have referred to my own family - mourn every such day that "no" became "yes" in 2015, but for the rest of you, I assure you that today's anniversary is a painful, but also a useful occasion to consider and realize exactly what happened in these three and a half years, that is, what popularity, irresponsibility and inability to power. As for you, Mr Tsipras, this anniversary marks not the time of your mutation policy, but your substantial political defeat. You shouted "Go back Madame Merkel" and today begged for two words of sympathy and a friendly blow on the back. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You represented the rebel who burned flags outside the US Embassy. You who would change Europe today have become the child for all jobs. You flew over your old comrades. You have become the chosen ones of the new interlocutor. Don't worry, I'll come back to this with names and addresses. You won the privatizations, the OECD toolbox, the utilization of Greek, the sale of PPC. Today you sign all this with your two hands. You did nothing, of course, because in addition to irresponsible you are also incompetent. And all this nakedness, this ideological crash you now want to baptize and succeed. And don't rush again, gentlemen of the Couple to tell us, repeat the "caramella" that: "No, let's put aside what happened in the first half of 2015. These new ones were adopted in the September 2015 elections.’ Because then again, you lied to me, you tried to hide your ass. The parallel Thessaloniki program to remind you what was predicted? Then you said ‘restoration of liquidity’, ‘capital controls’ and ‘tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises’. Three years now, the capital controls are living and reigning! Free professionals and small and medium-sized businessmen are looking to find out how to pay taxes and contributions you have imposed. And that's not all. In September 2015, you had not spoken of the excess and of the concession of the public property for ninety years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u42	The main theme of negotiation then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u43	Oh, did you say you'd commit the property by 2115? Have you said that? Aren't you embarrassed? And you're talking here about lying? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't move your hands too much, Mr. Cammene, I'll be right back to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u44	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u45	Wait. A little patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u46	Be quiet, please, everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u47	I wonder, really, Mr. Tsipras, why didn't you take Mr. Kammenos next to you today and let him sit on the other seats? Does the "cadron" bother you a little? Is the rival worrying you? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] At that time you had not spoken about the surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060. You have not said a word about the new reduction in pensions and the tax that your Government would vote for. On the contrary, your ministers, Mr Tsakalotos, first, have announced resignations if duty-free is reduced. In your homes, sit tight, Mr. Tsakalotes, and make grays. Shame on you, Mr. Chakatte, a little straightforward. Your British blemish should...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u48	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u49	Don't get upset. I've got you guys cooler.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u50	Please don't make creative confrontation. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u51	You said it, Mr Chakalote, I didn't say it. As you hadn't told us a word about the VAT of the islands. And that's why you've been shaking your clothes. You threatened to resign. You have increased him to all the islands of the country and you are celebrating now because five islands have been excluded for six months. So lie, Mr. Tsipras, you said in January 2015, you were lying in September 2015, you are lying now. And these traits that accompany you, they're within your DNA, they seem to be splitting and deceiving, they're still keeping them all these years. But, Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, things have changed for you, and today you have a society that you do not dare look into in your eyes, as you have to do with the events, which are stubborn and relentless, the events that you have caused and experienced by the citizens. And the country at such a difficult time has a government - operetta, a triumph that others say in the morning, but at noon and at night. But the Prime Minister says, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, but the Minister for Defence says, and other things the Minister for Finance says. And your afflicted Governing Representative has become a governmental two-faced. But it says in the morning, their opposites at night, trying to reconcile your contradictions. And you have reached the point of dealing with unprecedented incompetence and homicide even with our national issues. Mr. Kammenos one day allowed Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias to go to sign the Prespecies Agreement, the next day he tells us that he will drop the government. One day it tells us - beware - that the agreement is bad if it comes to be voted on with 151 Members, but that it is good and we can accept it if it comes with 180. A normal Prime Minister would have fired you, Mr. Kammene, at the first moment when he would hear you say this crap, when the Minister of National Defence disagrees with the Prime Minister on such a critical national issue. Really, how exactly are you going to NATO? Will you go on the same day? You're going differently? Will you join us, Mr. Tsipras? Will you sit there in NATO together with Mr. Kammenos, who claims today that he does not like the agreement, which you have signed? Mr. Tsipras, apart from unreliable, you are also a prime minister weak, under deadline. You are ruling to, possibly, co-decide with Mr. Kammenos to put an end to this passionate relationship. You may be looking to find others willing the next day. I see it a little difficult in this House. Until then, however, you are doing very well what you know. You did so today in a provocative and vulgar way: Slander, mud, split. Today you have had the courage in this Chamber to characterise anyone who disagrees with you as far-right, you who faced with unprecedented arrogance and authoritarianism the citizens who protested against your own choices. And you still carry on the raw lies today. You told us, Mr Tsipras, that with the agreement of the Prespecies you did not recognise a Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian language. And since the day of the agreement, the Prime Minister of Skopje celebrates in the morning, noon and night that he has guaranteed the identity and language, that they are Macedonians and that all the world and Greece of course have to recognise it with the agreement you signed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yesterday we heard there was a Macedonian army. Tell Mr. Kotzia it's a little late for tears. We have warned that this agreement has been produced since its signature, which is why we have tabled the motion of censure, so that everyone can be put before their responsibilities. Unfortunately, we were right about the country. I told you that you are trying to divide the Greeks to unite others. But you didn't make it. You have only succeeded in uniting the great majority of the Greeks to you. That's what you've done. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when not only me but many others point out with evidence, with concrete errors - in our assessment - in the agreement, concrete retreats which we consider unacceptable, your answer is, you said them again today: 'Be extreme right'. Right-wing me, far-right, I imagine, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Leventis, Mr. Koutsubas. We all make the same points, as does the great majority of the Greek people. Mr Tsipras, look at it, as many times as you repeat it vain as much mud as you fly does not touch me, and people know very well and who I am and what I think and what this great centre-right part of the New Democracy is, which you have no right to identify with fascism. We have restored democracy, Mr Tsipras, and we have recorded our own historical mortgage in building the best democracy that this place has ever known until you and you dismantle it all. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] But the citizens know something else, Mr Tsipras: the great benefactor of the far right in Greece is you. You worked with them when you were in the opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You yelled at them in the streets for traitors and hangers. What difference does Mr Polakis' tweet make to what the Golden Dawn said? The same things you were saying at the time. And of course you have been running with Mr. Kammenos's far-reaching right for three and a half years. Your co-pilot, whom your own MPs call Right-wing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, you were looking to measure the votes of the Golden Dawn when you wanted to change the electoral law and you did everything in the forefront and in the background to create another extreme right party on the right of the New Democracy, in the hope that it would cut off some votes. That's why you moved as you moved, divisively in the scorpion, but also in other matters. You pretend, Mr. Tsipras, that you are fighting the far right while you are betting on it your change of political survival. In vain your work, because, as you have seen, you have fallen first in and now society is looking for a clear exit from the deadlocks to which you led it. This can only be done with elections an hour earlier, so that we can finally end with this triumph, which each day undermines our national interests and finally take Greece forward! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have provoked today's debate in this House not only to show the lie of the alleged end of the memorials and to describe the true image of the economy, but above all to bring to light the new misleading draft of a government which is attempting, today, to appease the suffering itself and, of course, to show that it can finally put an end to this continuing catastrophe of the country. But we are here, because we want to send a positive signal, give hope and perspective to the Greeks, because of course the Greeks deserve better, but they deserve, Mr Tsipras, to learn the truth. Really first. At the end of August, the third programme will be completed. What does that mean? This means that the favourable lending from European funds expires and the country is called upon to address the international markets, a loan that was accompanied by tough measures and tough commitments, the third memorandum, which reminds you that you signed. It was unnecessarily necessary and if it hadn't intervened in the first half of 2015 we would have left the memorials already in 2015. Every attempt, however, to lend Greece from now on will be accompanied by special reports from the International Monetary Fund on debt, and every quarter - I repeat, Mr Tsipras - European supervision will make its own report on the implementation of measures already agreed and corresponding to these reports, and the requirement of the capital markets from which we hope the country will be able to borrow. Either way, that, Mr Tsipras, or the end of the memoranda can be called a normal exit to the markets. Really second. The so-called security, which you have guaranteed for the next twenty two months, has been guaranteed because you have built a pillow from some of the old loans and from the accumulation of very high primary surpluses. But this accumulation of high primary surpluses from where does it arise? It results from the strangulation of the real economy, from the forced commitment of hospital reserves, from the retention of pensions and from the non-payment of public debts to Greek companies. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You will answer later, Mr Chakaloto, don't get confused. A country that is paralyzing within the borders today to be able to claim loans outside the border. Such an exit isn't exactly called it either clean or safe. Really third and most important. According to Law 4472/2017, which bears the signatures of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotou, who naturally has the "yes" of all" of Mr. Kammenos and of course the vote of all Members of the SYRIZA - ANEL, Greece undertakes to take additional austerity measures of EUR 5.1 billion over the next two years. I don't suppose you're questioning that, either. It is also required to ensure primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060. Either way, you cannot speak of a memorial era when you have voted on such memorial measures and so strict targets. Really, tell me, Mr. Tsipras, was there a country that came out of the programmes that had committed itself to specific pre-empted budgetary measures after the end of the programmes? Has this been done in Ireland? Did it happen in Cyprus? Did it happen in Portugal? It didn't happen anywhere. That is why we are talking about Greece as a special case. That is why the claims that Greece follows the same course as the other countries that came out of the memorials are completely false. And fourth truth. The same law also provides: Reduction of tax exemption from EUR 1-1-2020 to EUR 5,680, disappearance of the CSCE and benefits and horizontal abolition of the 15% deduction on the incomes of all free professionals and farmers. All this, Mr Tsipras, is not just a fair social development. So let's finish with the propaganda and stop provoking the Greeks. Because you're blowing me up and we're racing ties, you're not coming out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u53	That's how I saw her. All right, match ties. And finally, you, Mr Tsipras, and some in Europe - not all - are insisting on being smiled, let them at least show little respect to a people who suffer because of your tragic choices. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In their minutes, I am making two laws, and also the conclusions of the Eurogroup, of course, the relevant commitments, namely 'Specific comments, to ensure the consistency and completion of texts identified under the ESM programme', in English. Give it to Mr. Tsipras, to freshen his memory of what he has signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u54	Okay, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u55	Of course, because you referred to European officials, Mr Tsipras, you know not everyone says the same as Mr Moskovis. Mr Moscovisi may also have his own political agenda. He also announced on his blog that he was interested in being a candidate for the European Socialist presidency. He has the right, wearing his second hat, to possibly present things far more beautiful than he really is. I can assure you, however, that the pensions will not be cut off by Mr Moscovisi nor will Mr Moscovisi's wage be affected. Greeks are paying the consequences of your choices today. But there are other European officials who do not say the same thing, Mr Tsipras. What does Mr. Reggling say? What does Mr. Vizer say? That this adventure cost us between EUR 100 billion and EUR 200 billion and that Greece is a special...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u56	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u57	Now are these bothering you? You only want to hear one side? Just Mr. Moscovisi? You don't want to hear any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u58	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u59	And that the country will be in a special surveillance regime for many more years. I am presenting in the Minutes the relevant interviews, so that you do not lie, Mr Tsipras, and what the European officials are saying. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The four, then, painful truths are the work of the Tsipras - Kammenos governments. They shall be reflected in the last medium-term and in the Eurogroup decision. And I tabled them in the Minutes, not because they can be called into question, but I present them in the House as a minimum evidence of government unreliability, which has exceeded every limit, but also as a minimum protection afforded by the reality itself against government propaganda. Because different scenarios are already in the underground of Maximos that the adopted measures can in some way be suspended or possibly abolished if there is budgetary over-return. Well, to clarify things, I would like to remind you that these pension cuts were not predicted - I repeat, they were not - in the third memorandum. So you have no right to say that your people have ordered you to impose these reductions. These cuts were totally unnecessarily cuts. It's the price of your personal unreliability.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u60	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u61	Of course, you miss a little detail, Mr. Tsipras. We did not vote for these cuts! You voted for them! And you're asking for the change from us about the cuts you brought? How courageous, Mr. Tsipras, does anyone have to have someone to say these things? You voted for them! We were against cutbacks! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And to leave the fairy tales, we, Mr Tsipras, have prepared an amendment. I got her ready here. It is an amendment that is in agreement. You saw that Mrs. Gennimata also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. It is an amendment which says very simply: Come and vote together that pensions will not be cut. So if you have the courage, come and vote for either our amendment or Mrs Gennamas' proposal, to prove who is a hypocrite in this Chamber, who is telling the truth and who is mocking the Greek people! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Unfortunately, however, Mr Tsipras, all Greeks know that if you remain in power, pension reductions will be inevitable. And they will be inevitable because you still strangle the real economy, which is ultimately the donor of every insurance system. This development that came from 2014, when the country was about to come out of the crisis, this development, Mr. Tsipras, killed her in a delicacy of lies and populism, which was the only goal of bringing you to power. I have a chart here, Mr. Tsipras. Look at it a little. I'll give it to you. It shows the course of GDP. It was down until 2011 and then gradually upwards. And what happened in the years 2015-2017? It is the quarterly changes in GDP. Where the economy should grow at a rapid pace, you came and sat it down in stagnation. That's the reality, Mr. Tsipras! I'm tabling the relevant table for the minutes. Give him to the Prime Minister, please. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the big damage you've done in the country! This is a long lost chance of your three-year-old. I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, how do you feel every time you meet your counterpart Portuguese Prime Minister? The Portuguese Prime Minister came to power about the same time that you came and made it possible for Portugal, in this three-year period, to have a 10% growth when you have 0.9%. You're proud, Mr. Tsipras, for this performance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u62	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u63	Be quiet! Mrs. Triantafel, please. Do not envy others the glory! You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u64	Are you proud to have lost the three best years of European recovery and to have left Greece ensembled in stagnation and misery? That's your deposit, Mr. Tsipras! And today all the Greeks know that another government, a government capable of liberating the forces of the real economy, increasing the wealth produced, renewing employment, so that pensions can be kept at human level. That's what we're gonna do. It is our duty to protect the income of pensioners. However, this can only be done when the engine of the real economy takes place, with a government of New Democracy with a fresh and strong people's mandate and with the confidence of the Greek people. We, Mr Tsipras, indeed our plan is very different from ours. It is summed up in four simple objectives: Less taxes and contributions, more investment and better jobs, better and more effective state and protection for our weakest fellow citizens. And our answer to the problems of the country is simple, costly and realistic. It does not hide the difficulties or the pitfalls with which you have promised the future of the country. It is, however, the only way to stop the constant catastrophe and to regenerate our homeland. I turn around Greece - I am doing what I understand you have some difficulty in doing - I discuss with the citizens and the institutions our plan for the next day. In fact, some people ask me: "But how can you change rotos when SYRIZA has committed the country? The state, well or bad, shouldn't it keep going? Will our lenders not react?" I respond to them: I believe and believe deeply in the creative shock that is caused by confidence and by the pro-investing climate. But I trust, yes! - and the Greek who grows up when he feels they're not fooling him! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As for our lenders, let me also know the international environment and the dynamics of economic relations. You know, between the double coin of Varoufakis on the one hand and the memorials that come in English on the other hand, there is also our way: the path of measure, truth, convincing arguments, the role of an equal interlocutor, not the revolutionary who turns into 'yes man'. When you know what you're asking and how you're gonna bring results, then, yes, they listen to you and they respect you. When, after you've failed mercifully, you've been begging for a while more power, then you're being imposed. That is why - and I say this once again quite clearly - when the next government demonstrates its commitment to reform and gains market confidence, it will claim and achieve a reduction in the primary surplus targets. Because that's the right thing to do for the country! That's right for the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is unfair for Greeks to pay for two generations the inability, the delusion and the cynicism of Mr. Tsipras. I hear the other argument, which has recently been channelled into your friendly press. Really, Mr Tsipras - I am opening a parenthesis - did you have the courage today to invoke a report from the "Writers' Newspaper" as true? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u65	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u66	I would like to say this: the editors' Newspaper is so approved, and he does not know that I have never met with Mr Zehofer! And it is so clear that the Editorial Newspaper did not know that I had never met with Mrs Merkel at this part-session of the European People's Party! You are a liar, a Liar, a Liar, a Capital "F", Mr. Tsipras, who reproduce these disgusting publications! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you are a double liar when talking about immigration, you dare identify me with Mr Orban, and when you know very well that at every summit of the European People's Party I have fought and fought hard with the Prime Minister of Hungary, telling him that there must be European solutions to refugee issues! And you come to this room today and say exactly the opposite. You're a liar, a liar, a liar! This will accompany you for all your career. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, please make a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u68	So I hear the argument put forward in your friendly press that now, now, the government seems to have landed and you now recognize your mistakes. You went to Mr. Pavlopoulou too and told him that, yes, maybe we were wrong with the referendum, we didn't weigh them right. That is what you said, Mr Tsipras, unless you want to come here and fix it rather influenced by the anniversary that is today. But you can't forget your past so quickly. Maybe some might say you're still worth a chance. I say: Mr Tsipras, you have had two chances and instead you have sent the bill to the citizens. You are not worth a third chance, Mr Tsipras, and that is why you will not have it, because you are neither left nor right, nor centre left nor not central. You are a cynical handler of power who disguises every day with political selfishness. The fact that you have no sense of responsibility was clearly shown in the tradition of Macedonian identity and Macedonian language in the unacceptable agreement you made in the Prespes. Your security policy is seen in both Zefri and Exarchia. And your policy in refugee was seen in 2015, when you opened the border and still appears every day in Moria...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u69	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u70	You know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, all Europe today recognises - Mr Tsipras, take care of yourself - of the need to protect our external borders. Do you agree or not with this observation? Do you agree or not with the need for Europe to protect its borders? Tell me, yes or no? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Just, Mr Tsipras, you have a problem defending this line that is a European line, it is not just a line of the European People's Party. It's a line of European socialists, it's a line of Mr. McCron. We all say the same thing. If you say anything different, explain it to us. However, if you have changed your mind, with what credibility you will speak of protecting the external borders, when you then had a competent Minister, the lady who was talking about the melting immigrants. Because, you know, these are the ones that accompany you and all the solidarityrs, who are still roaming on the islands of the eastern Aegean and are fighting for how everyone will get asylum, are those who do not allow you to change the asylum procedures, so you cannot send almost anyone back to Turkey and blame us for the reason why the EU-Turkey agreement is not being complied with. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, Mr Tsipras, when you talk about refugee, you have zero political credibility and zero political capital, and I would ask you to be a little more careful about that. But you, Mr Tsipras, do not want to see any progress in education. You want three hundred and thirty euros young immigrants abroad without the right to vote. Really, Mr. Tsipras, will we vote together to enable the Greeks abroad to vote from these elections? Yeah? Are you swinging your head or not? Or aren't you answering? Or do you pretend you're not listening? I guess you're just pretending you're not listening. I'm putting you a little hard. Don't worry, next week on the occasion of the 'CLISTEN', we will be able to discuss this as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u71	When you were Minister, why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u72	Please calm down. What questions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u73	Is that what you're concerned with? Come on, let's do it now. So, you agree. That's great! I have already found one of your willing Members, Mr Tsipras, who is in agreement. Your vote remains. I have said at times, Mr Tsipras, that our GDP is not just an economic one. "A" is growth, it is dignity, it is credibility. "E" means unity and work and "P" is a new patriotism. In other words, the country's problem is not just an economic problem, it is a deep political one. Every day that passes, the retreat spiral will continue, the misery will recycle and pessimism will relapse society more and more. I liked to look back at polls, Mr. Tsipras. I am not going to make any reference to measurements relating to the intention of voting. I will only ask you one thing: How do you feel today, which systematically in all measurements eight out of ten Greeks tell us that things are going in the wrong direction? Are they right, or are you? I'm afraid they have one, Mr. Tsipras. And that is why political change is now a vital need for the country. After all, after the latest developments in this captivity alliance, which you have with Mr Kammenos, all you have left is to set the date for the elections. And this is the only clear exit you have to do: The exit from power as soon as possible with ballots and clean democratic procedures. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Democracy has no dead ends. The future of the country cannot wait any longer. Greece needs new leadership, good people and a reliable national reform plan. He needs a 4% growth explosion. In other words, development twice as much, Mr Tsipras, as is now planned with another policy mix, with fewer taxes and contributions, with many investments and many good new jobs. A public administration, far from the party, at the service of the citizen, with worthy public officials, who will be truly proud of their work, but also with a government that will be able to claim fair treatment from Europe as an equal partner. And that is the only way we will be able to achieve a review of the high primary surpluses: with our knowledge and our work as Greeks of Europe and not by definite austerity in Greece, as unfortunately you have done these three and a half years. Because the country deserves much better. I must, of course, warn you that the road to the elections will be a difficult road. The government propaganda will once again attempt to mock citizens with empty promises and great lies. We'll be here to reveal them. The basement of Maximos will again begin to move mud and dirty scenarios against political opponents. Of course, Mr Tsipras, and today you were unable to resist this temptation. Mr. Guardian, I've seen him twice in my life. Twice in my life! He's not my friend, like you said falsely. And the mails you are invoking - you are so careless - are mentioned - take note - at a time when he was not the CEO at "NOVARTIS" - he was gone - but at a time when I had not even expressed my intention to be a candidate for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u74	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u75	You're inviting this post to do what? To let your impressions go. You're a lousy slander! You're embarrassed and disgraceful for the country! Shame on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Aren't you telling me, Mr. Tsipras, to ask you something, to talk about everything here: do you meet with businesspeople? Have you met with Mr. Marinakis? How many times, Mr. Tsipras, have you met with Mr. Marinakis? Tell us about it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] With Mr. Savvidis, whom you are now photographing behind the destabilisation of the government, have you met? You and Mr. Bobola meet, Mr. Tsipras? With Mr. Kaloger, with the pastures, your favourite canalarch until this construction collapsed, did you meet? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With Mr. Melissandi, with Mr. Laurentiadis, convicted of fraud, will you meet? Venezuela's infamousLear Jets with the lawyer of offshore. Speaking of which, Mr. Tsipras, what was Mr. Poppas doing? Where's he hiding? I saw him back there somewhere. Mr. Poppas, what is he doing with his favorite offshore lawyer? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Is this gentleman coming in to Maximus, Mr. Tsipras, and today we're talking? The time when you represented the honest lad, who is against the interests of interlocutory, has passed away unreturned. You are a ruthless and deeply intertwined politician, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the reality and you discovered the complex much earlier and with much stronger ties than the previous governments. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you are personally behind the vulgar paratrooper, which is aimed at me with inadmissible and false articles, our executives, and our families. Do you coordinate them all and you are personally responsible for all this, for the misery of each of Mr Vaxvanis and Mr Majurani, your chosen ones, your favorite companions at the paradox of the interlocutory that you have built, and will you dare then move the finger to me and to the New Democracy? Shame on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The greatest liar and the most vulgar!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u76	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u77	Say no arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u78	It was all business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u79	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u80	Today, the 'or we're ending or ending'. But we are here not to allow a new division, Mr Tsipras. By experience the sad epilogue of a destructive government, citizens are now looking for a stable response to the problems that SYRIZA - ANEL leave behind. They feel like it's not working anymore. They are turning their eyes into incompetent ministers and a Prime Minister, who today cannot look society into the eyes. People want clean words and they're looking for clean solutions, because that's the only way to go forward. We have all learned from the traumatic experience of the memorials, but also from the toxic effects of the prevalence of populism. As the old ideological dividing lines fade away, the central dilemma today is elsewhere, between truth and lies, progress and stagnation, efficiency and inability. The New Democracy is ready to assume the great responsibility of the country's governance. He's got a schedule, he's got a vision, he's got executives, he's in the mood for work. At the same time, however, it is also able to lead a wider front, which will relive Greece again, and we are ready to face the challenge of a new large national composition, the reconstructuring of the European democratic front, which our country so much needs today. We know where we want to go, but we know most of all where the country can arrive. We believe in Greece, as we believe in the Greeks. We want and want everyone who's been out of town for the last few years looking for a job abroad. We want investment, competitive industries to flourish, as tourism does this summer, despite the shortcomings and shortcomings of government policy. We want the Greeks together and that's why we've never won again. Why, we know that we can all, all Greeks, defeat our evil self, lie, modesty, so that we can deliver to our children a bright Greek, a Greek proud. I am here to tell you that we in the New Democracy will not stop trying so that all this can be done. The elections will not be the end, but the starting point of a hopeful path to give our homeland the future that it deserves, the future that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u81	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff? There was a reference to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u82	Mr Polakis, I am sorry, but I will not give the floor to anyone, because it is the same of these debates that, in all references made to ministers or colleagues, it is a question of political leaders, if necessary, answering them. Because the President of the New Democracy earlier mentioned about half of the Ministerial Council. Rightly, unjustly, reasonably? It is not possible at the moment in the name of the staff to intervene by other than the political leaders. That's what this is about. You're very welcome. I also heard about Mr. Papapas, Mr. Kotzias, Mr. Tsakalotos. You realise that I say this about the economy and the institutional shield of the debate. I very much urge Mrs Gennimatas, President of the Democratic Group of the PASOK-DEMAR to take the floor. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please everyone who wants to get out, quietly do it. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Clearly, the government has already left. He's been on a run from now. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have been following the debate for two hours and the conclusion is one. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis have made their choice. Their choice is polarization and division once again. The front was created in this country. It was created in the squares of the indignant, when together with SYRIZA, New Democracy and the Golden Dawn preducted from the President of the Republic to the Ministers, the MPs. So I would like to expressly state that we are against those who were saying 'Cuvelis' and those who are saying today to take the guns and go to Skopje. So I reverse the question: Who are you with? Will you finally support the national understanding, the unity of the Greek people, to leave the crisis behind, or will you continue the same games for many more years? And you did not need to come today, Mr Mitsotakis, to table an amendment. You were able to come and say that, yes, I will support the proposal for a law tabled by Mrs Gennamas and the Group of the Democratic Alliance and the Change Movement. It's just things. You don't have to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u84	But I said that too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u85	Three days it took you to decide what to do with the pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u86	But that's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u87	Please, not possible clarifications. There's seconds then for whatever it takes. Please don't interrupt. Mrs. Gennamas, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u88	You have asked today to discuss the Eurogroup's decisions. What can we talk about, Mr. Mitsotakis? Can we discuss the work? You let the Prime Minister go to undertake commitments for the country that obviously suit you. It serves others to promote conservative policies instead of you. Obviously, that is why when we said 'elections before the agreement', you who were calling for two years of elections, said 'Raden in the fall and we are seeing'. God has." On the other hand, Mr Tsipras has now become the great sponsor of the New Democracy. Whatever the man can do to strengthen Mr. Mitsotakis. Of course, I'll admit he's not alone in this attempt. As the song says: "He has a little help from his friends." Who are they? Before all his alliances on the right. Only names and addresses were not given to us earlier in his speech by the Prime Minister. Of course, he's also his far-right partner. I was surprised to hear him say that the far right is the crook's shelter. Uh, more the Prime Minister knows in relation to the partnerships with the far right. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] All right, well, for both of us. And for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis. The bad news, however, is that the "marble" is finally paid for by the Greek people. And he has paid very dearly, and Mr. Tsipras' murder and New Democracy's opportunism over the years of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras once again came here and admired himself. "Have the Prime Minister said to us. What if his co-pilots are questioning him now? What if they say his signature doesn't apply? They say it's government in time. Whatever time he wants, his co-pilot says, he's throwing him from the government. Why would I ask? Is it not a pity with such serious and important work in the country? Does your heart take him down and put an end to this joint effort? Or do you feel that you are no longer gaining anything from your involvement in this government, because you know very well what the harsh truth is about the commitments you have made to the country and the Greek people in the years to come? Ladies and gentlemen, what have they been celebrating - and celebrating - the SYRIZA - ANEL? The formal expiry of the third memorandum, their own memorandum, which was absolutely unnecessarily unnecessarily, was also the worst and most prejudicial. It was exactly what their disastrous policy caused. But the government doesn't talk about mortgageing public property on all of this. It doesn't say foreigners have allowed banks to run. The government celebrates, but does not say that its policy in the first half of 2015, that is, today's anniversary, cost the country some EUR 200 billion, i.e. about EUR 20,000 for every Greek citizen. It's an exact anniversary today. But it's too late for tears. At the time the cannons opened up the liquidity from the European Central Bank at low interest rates, the government did not see the trains pass, but the troika that came and left and gave instructions and orders. Countries such as Portugal and Spain have benefited from this change in order to achieve a high growth rate, but also in order to restructure the public debt and not to ask - as the Greek Government is doing today - the Eurozone and the ESM. They celebrate that they exceeded the target for the primary surpluses. However, they do not say that in 2016 and 2017 of the additional 10 billion collected, only two were temporarily refunded. Where did these monstrous surpluses come from? They were mainly taken out of middle-class pockets. Of course, national income has also fallen by about EUR 5 billion from the loss of growth. I ask: why did the bar of the primary surplus come up further? You'll tell me - maybe it sounds - that it's a small increase. But it increased for twenty - seven years. If anyone brings them together, this increase from 2% to 2.2% means at present over 12 billion euros. It is another burden of the terrible success of the SYRIZA - ANEL government negotiations. They celebrate the return with payments of central bank profits from Greek bonds. We have been calling it years for claiming it and doing so. They do not say that it was agreed to repay EUR 6.5 billion, lost by the turbulent acts of Tsipras - Varoufakis. Now what are they doing? They get much less and on strict terms and appear happy too. The return of profits was clearly required and had to be made without any commitment. Now what? It was Salted in eight instalments, their disposal was pre-specified and subject to strict budgetary compliance. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the government once again invoke what Europeans say. There is no doubt that they have their own reasons for our European partners to welcome the decisions of Eurogroup. Do our partners really see a final exit? No, of course not. What they see is that they simply have no other financial obligations towards Greece, they feel guaranteed for the next few years because the primary surpluses are too high and because if we do not manage, they have mortgages on public property and, therefore, they will not lose any euro in their interests. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have united in the middle class to secure the interests of lenders. That is what you have done. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard in particular to the content of the Eurogroup decision, I would like to ask a few questions. The first question is: is this really a matter of the end of the memoranda? No, of course, because the government has already legislated new measures to reduce pensions and tax relief, because it has already accepted tough supervision and comitology for too many years ahead. The troika will come to Greece every quarter and will assess us and the Eurogroup will be able to impose measures if it sees that this is necessary. Question 2: Are there, in fact, any substantive arrangements for the country's public debt? No, of course not. There is no debt cut, such as the EUR 106 billion cut. Once again, Mr Tsipras told us that it was a three-stage PSI and said something else impressive, that he increased - he said - then the debt. Of course, he has failed once again - he has an impossible memory, it seems - to tell us about the debt that was launched in the five-year period of the New Democracy, from 2004 to 2009, and led to the crisis and the memoranda. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have only received a further deferral of the interest on EFSF loans by ten years and an extension of the maximum rate of maturity by ten years. We have also lost the French 'key'. I will come back to that later. The decision is a clear retreat not only from the Prime Minister's election commitments, but also from what was agreed in the 2012 Eurogroup, but also in the 2016 Eurogroup, because all references to medium-term measures, which would support the sustainability of the debt and facilitate the country's credibility for exiting markets, have been forgotten. These were referred for after 2032. Question 3: Do the conditions of development really strengthen? No, of course not. And that is perhaps the worst part of this agreement, because it has to do with the prospect of our country. With the long-term commitments for unbearable primary surpluses, what is our country to do? He's got to run to create growth with a heavy foot ball. We did not get enough of the nipple that has worn us in the neck all these years, now it has tied us a heavy ball in the leg, to run Greece trying to achieve growth. How will you achieve a high growth rate with the exterior taxation of households and businesses? How do the pursuits for growth reconcile with the drastic cuts in the Public Investment Programme, to achieve, of course, the beastly surpluses? I don't expect any answers from the government staff. I would just point out that the time has ended when they could make fun of the Greek people. On the other hand, major primary surpluses are transformed into resources transferred abroad, precisely because they go to serve the country's obligations to our debt partners. The 2016 decision - and I return to the issue of the French proposal - clearly says that with the end of the programme there will be flexibility to address the uncertainty of GDP growth and interest payments in the future. The June 2017 decision recalls the previous commitment and clearly describes that - and I read it out exactly - 'in the event of an unexpected negative development of GDP, a response mechanism could be triggered. The activation of the mechanism will be examined on the basis of a Eurogroup decision and could include measures such as further transfer of EFSF’s loans, transfer of interest and capped interest payments.’ Everyone in Greece was left with the impression that this decision has already been taken. In the final decision of 2018, however, there is absolutely no reference to this mechanism. And here, back quickly! Question IV: Is it true how our financial needs are met over time? No, of course not. The EUR 24 billion capital pillow agreed and under the control of our ESM covers only twenty-two months after the end of the programme. It is the pillow that comes mainly from the scanning of the liquidity available to the public bodies. If we do not have the credibility of getting out of the market and it starts using this preventive measure, then we are leading to very dangerous situations in the coming years. In other words, if in the next twenty-two months the conditions for exiting the markets are not favourable, the Greek State will have completely drained, with what this implies for public payments and its obligations. And the question that arises - despite what is said - is that both this government and the commitments made at all but create a sense of security and certainty in the markets. And finally, question fifth: Are the hopes created by the Government for social policy from now on based? No, of course not. The government continues to impoverish the Greek people with its measures and policies. It is no coincidence that new tax debts have been added in the month of May, the total amount of which is EUR 101.48 billion - a record of EUR 101.48 billion. In the same month almost ten thousand new debt seizures were made for tax debt, bringing up the total number of people who have been seized in the country - a record of one million hundred thousand citizens. What's next? First home auctions, with the ultimate responsibility for its protection deficit in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Greeks can't stand it anymore! And who really are those affected by government policies? Is it the rich, the powerful, as the members of this government are proclaiming from here and there? No, of course not. They are the wage earners and pensioners who will now be called, with the tax reduction, to pay another EUR 2 billion each year. They are a million low wages, low pensioners and farmers who will be asked for the first time to pay the tax, losing EUR 650 a year from their income. They are a million retired people, who will be invited to pay EUR 2.6 billion each year with the application of the Katrugalos Act. They are pensioners who will still lose 700 million after the postponement of the planned increases in their pensions. And, of course, they are the low-pensioners who are definitively farewell to the ESS. They are the free professionals who will be invited to pay another EUR 140 million every year because of the change in the method of calculating their contributions. It is our islanders who, despite any temporary suspension, will at the end be called upon to pay the increased VAT, and at a time when migratory flows and the government's failure to deal with them are exacerbating the problems on the islands. They are Greek households, who see that HNPH is not only living and reigning, but also permanently expanding, and increasingly affecting the popular classes. It was unfair, and it was done! Social policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not the one-off allowances and tips, which only return a small part of what you get from Greek citizens. Social policy is not the crustaceans negotiated for minimum wages. If, then, we are really talking about social policy, here is Rhodes for the government! I now ask the Prime Minister to commit himself to voting on the proposal for a law that we have tabled on the non-reduction of pensions. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Tsipras, since, as you say, we have a clear exit, since, as you say, we have become a normal country, since, as you say, the Troika and the proud Greek Government are not going to come back, you can prove that your signature, at last, is worth it. Take the step. Make a commitment today that there will be no pension cuts, since the Civic Opposition has concluded and will support our proposal. And a warning: Don't think of playing games at the expense of retired people by postponing the measure to cuts. Here and now, in front of all the Greek people, clean, clear commitments from everyone! If we really are talking about social policy, here is Rhodes, gentlemen of the government! I now ask the Prime Minister to make a commitment to restoring the minimum wage to the jurisdiction of the National General Association of Labour, under the jurisdiction of the social partners. I call for the new increase in the contribution of the professions to be cancelled and for a maximum monthly ceiling to be set. I call for the reintroduction of the widow's pension to the previous levels and the actual support of the Greek family and for the treatment of the demographic with substantial support and subsidy of the third child. The proposals we put forward once again - because it is not the first and you know it - for us it is a commitment to claim them until they are implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the transformations of this government are appalling. For the power alone, they are concerned and not for the interests of the Greek people. They started a so-called antisystemic revolution in 2015 against the European Union. How did they end up? Mercedes. Today you're doing what Chancellor says. And today we have heard the incredible: 'Down with Merkel'. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Tsipras, you don't change faces, but faces. And behind these faces is a Jan. You're left in the pie and right in the flour! He really is and today has had the opportunity for the Greek people to see it very clearly. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Your supreme retreat from the positions of progress is spectacular at every level, even in the major humanitarian issues. You put these in the bazaar too. The suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands for about six months, which coincides with the time you hope to be in the government, is being exchanged with your retreats to the refugee, but not to deal with the problems of islands. So you only turn the country into a soul storehouse for your own short-term benefit and remove it in this way and any prospect of changing, at last, the Dublin II Regulation, that is, what Greece has claimed over the last few years. Because, obviously, if your issues are resolved bilaterally with your bosses, there is no reason to change the Dublin Treaty. You solve the problems of the Germans. But, as I said before, you cannot make fun of anyone anymore on the islands or in the rest of Greece. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this SYRIZA Government - ANEL only causes damage to the place while it remains. It is obvious that this government cannot. But Greece can. It may, of course, be subject to two important conditions. The first is political change. To change this government at last and put an end to the downhill. That is why we are claiming to increase our rates and to change political correlations, to ensure national understanding, political stability and progressive governance in this place. Because the second condition for the country to go forward is an integrated, progressive, reliable plan, with Greek ownership, which will increase the credibility of the country, so that we can get out of the market, but also convince our partners of the corrections to be made to the agreement, particularly as regards the primary surplus target. The present, but also the future of this place, can no longer be poverty, austerity, austerity, customer relations, intervention in the institutions and charitable ministers. We can change the fate of this government. That is why the only way forward is for the Greek people to speak in the elections that will take place soon. The countdown has begun. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Today, however, we have received a taste from the pre-election period with the polarization and division that once again lead the country to dangerous dead ends. Let all those who are watching us today take note of them. And I do not think there has been any doubt about whether or not Mr Tsipras has changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Now we'll give the floor to Mr. Michaloliaco for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really surprised at the heavy view they have on the Greek people's crisis, which they assume has a goldfish memory. Ms Gennamas asked for the abolition of the Dublin II Agreement to be requested from this House. Except this pact, this disastrous pact for our nation, was signed at PASOK government! Previously in Vima, Mr. Tsipras was first and then Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Tsipras reiterated that the people are sovereign. If the people are sovereign, let them express themselves, which does not let them be expressed, either in accordance with the electoral procedures imposed on the present circumstances, nor, of course, in respect of their will. He also said, for the years of his government, that in the days of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks we gain dignity and pride. I have here a survey, a political survey, which was published today, according to which words that most express Greeks for the present and future of the country are: 39.8% fear, 52.5% shame, 58.3% anger. This is the pride that Mr Tsipras and the Left led with the Independent Greeks. We won no dignity, no pride. With regard to the marches of protest in every corner of Greece - which Mr Tsipras denounced and I will refer to his complaint, and I will reply - Mr Tsipras forgot, it seems, on the days before 2015, when the ministers were succumbing at the time when such events were created. And the events were then to tear the memorial, which, of course, they did not torn apart. But these marches that are taking place today in Serres, Drama, in every corner of Greece, are not partisan. Everyone holds a blue white and they say 'Down with Macedonia'. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr. Tsipras spoke of counter-concentrations. I admire his courage, because two days ago in Thessaloniki, patriotic organizations had announced through the Internet a gathering in the statue of Eleftherios Venizelos and were gatherings by the willing partners of the Left Government, the fake anti-powered, these parastates and they took over the area of concentration. Isn't that counterconcentration? Can we talk about other concentrations? Should we talk about Rigillis Square, where, in the Imian monument since January 2016, it has been systematically organised - with the participation of SYRIZA's youth - anti-concentration so that the Golden Dawn does not hold the gathering in honor of the three brave officers of our Hellenic Navy? Co-concentrations have been their work and have not come since the 1960s. Co-concentrations occur where the Golden Dawn decides to make gatherings and not just. Terrorism: There is no central hotel today in Athens and Piraeus where Golden Dawn can give a lecture or make a gathering, because the interstate punks of the various Romanians go and threaten the owners. But they know it won't pass. The Golden Dawn is here, it's in the squares and streets, it's in towns and villages, it's resisting for Greece! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Then, after Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Mitsotakis took the role, who spoke of an alliance of SYRIZA - Golden Dawn. Mr Tsipras had already spoken about the alliance of New Democracy and Golden Dawn. Don't fight between you two. Golden Dawn is neither with nor with one another. You both hurt the country and I'm against you. Golden Dawn is with Greece, the people, the honor, dignity, history and fighting for it! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] From what Mr Mitsotakis said, I will also stand and point out that when he spoke of an alliance of SYRIZA - Golden Dawn, he forgot that together with SYRIZA the New Democracy passed the law on mosques, along with the New Democracy passed the third Memorandum. And for the truth, only yesterday was the French "first generation", Moscovisi, who, addressing the leadership of the New Democracy said attributes: "If the party of the New Democracy was not there in the summer of 2015 to vote, to support, we would not be at this good point today." I say this to all those in the New Democracy who are condemning the government. This is why they also voted for the SYRIZA memorandum. Mr Mitsotakis referred in detail to the Macedonian issue, which I shall refer to and said the following characteristic phrase: 'The agreement produces a fait accompli'. For those who know Greek the word "finished" is a part of the perpetual and means that what this SYRIZA government signs cannot change. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis admits. What, then, is all this criticism? And with regard to pension reductions and tax relief, he said, by addressing Mr Tsipras, the following: 'Come to vote together that pensions will not be cut'. And I ask: if SYRIZA and ANEL vote to cut pensions, as they have voted, what will Mitsotakis do if it becomes government. Will it change it? He's committing himself to this? No, of course not. As regards the Hungarian political leader Orban and his strong struggle to protect their national borders, Mr. Tsipras and Orban beside Mr. Tsipras and he said that in no case has anything to do with Orban. We're totally in agreement. It has nothing to do with it, because in the days of the New Democracy - and it was many years ago - it was also openly the borders for refugees and illegal immigrants. And because the word "lathonos" also created a problem recently in the government, where the Ministry of National Defence forced the Ministry of National Defence to change a circular following the objection of twelve MPs of SYRIZA, I invite everyone to open the great typological dictionary of the modern Greek language of George Babiniotis on page 754, where there is the word "lathromian". Of course, as far as today's sitting is concerned, I would like to ask a great deal of question. My question is why Mr Mitsotakis asked for this pre-dated agenda debate. Is it going to change something important in the economy? Does he intend to stand against the memorials? He didn't say it or claim it. I would also like to denounce that this is the second time in which - and this happened a few days ago - it has been decided in an unconstitutional and anti-democratic way to exclude the Golden Dawn - as a whole - in the debate on the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy and this unanimous attitude against the Golden Dawn shows that all parties here - and this testify to the empty chairs that exist in this Chamber - all of you are the party of the political parties that serve the foreign factor and the big capital and against you is a national force, the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Do you think with exclusion you'll hit Golden Dawn? You're wrong. You're making her stronger. I want to denounce the left junta that has been riding public opinion in Greece for decades, having to face a false right that is being dragged back and serves the left and says that it respects and honors its struggles, a left junta that sees fascists and Nazis everywhere and now sees them behind the spontaneous protests of the people for the Treaty of Ambassadors. You're wrong. It is the people, the powerful people that you people are shaking, in many introductory forms. That is why you do not do the self-evident thing in Skopje. You are not making a referendum to see whether the Greek people want the Prespecies Agreement or not. The Golden Dawn insists: a referendum for the people to decide on their future on this historic issue. Because Macedonia - we will repeat it all the time - is one and it is Greek! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You are also popular for this reason in order to go to Lesvos, which you have devastated with the refugee wave and illegal immigrants, you need dozens of MATs. Same in Thessaloniki. You're blocking the city. Thessaloniki was literally a occupied city yesterday. However, as far as the Prespecies Agreement is concerned, there is also a question of whether it is valid, since the Independent Greeks have a different view. You don't have the government majority. As far as I am concerned, the text of the motion of censure, tabled by the New Democracy, has had problems and even significant problems from the evil one. In particular, in the motion of censure you gave the opportunity to the Members of the Independent Greeks to flee, voting in favour of the proposal by the Government, in other words by voting against the motion of censure. Why? Because you did not have a single topic in your proposal, the issue of Macedonia. You put more and less of it. So you made a way out for the Members of the Independent Greeks to vote for the motion of censure, and if they had a single issue, the issue of Macedonia, they would not have that possibility. In addition, the proposal from the New Democracy - I will read out self-determination about what it says here - mentions characteristics: "It is a harmful agreement on national interests. Recognizes supposedly Macedonian ethnicity and language for our northern neighbours. This is a major national retreat that cannot be accepted.’ Did you hear any words about the name thing? Did you hear the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy to say that granting the term 'Macedonia' is unacceptable? Oh, no! Did you hear any commitment from the New Democracy that if it became a government would denounce the agreement? Oh, no. In SKAI Mr Mitsotakis said attributes that if the agreement was ratified, it would be very difficult to avoid it. Moreover, even now, they are standing on these two serious issues, but they are certainly not as important as the name. And it is important that the name, as the Society of Macedonian Studies states in a report just yesterday, is important because the name itself is the vehicle of alutism. As far as nationality is concerned, they had the courageous government officials say that they did not mention nationality and quote the Greek text, which was about citizenship. While the official text says about the status of Skopje residents, it says "Nationality: Macedonian", it says Nationality, namely ethnicity. The newspaper “ESTIA” revealed this with an article by Mr. Stylianides. You've given nationality. As regards the Macedonian language, the so-called 'Macedonian language', there is neither a Macedonian language nor a Macedonian language. It is a local idiom, which contains vulcan words, words Slavic on many issues. While there are Bulgarian and Serbian words, it uses Greek and among the others it contains about a thousand words with origins of Homeric and Neo-Greek. It was a lingua franca, as Professor Evangelidis said on a job published on the "Antivari" website, which was in no way language. The communist propaganda made it against Tito, and you validate it, while it was nothing but a local idiom. The Golden Dawn on this matter was clear. That is why we were really sending to the European Commission delegation in Greece, to the European Parliament, to the UN, to the NATO and Euro-Atlantic Agreements, to the FYROM Embassy, to the German Embassy, to the US Embassy, to France, to a letter - a personal commitment to my own and to the international organisations - that if God ever wants and has the power to denounce and cancel this agreement. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I call on the New Democracy, if it really is honest with what it says, to do the same thing, to terminate this agreement. For the Golden Dawn, it's simple. As long as there are Greeks, we don't care if these benches are empty here. The streets and the squares are full. As long as there are Greeks, as long as there is the Golden Dawn, the name Macedonia will never be recognized in the Slavs of the Skopje region. Macedonia is one Greek. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And that is why we warmly welcome the activity of the Greek people, who are protesting with national passions about what has happened with the Prespecies Agreement. We want to say to everyone let's leave their minds that it's a conspiracy fascist. It's the people. It is the people themselves and their will, and this is reflected in all the political investigations that have been carried out in this regard. I could not omit the recent agreement with Merkel on the resettlement of illegal immigrants and refugees, who are in Germany, Greece. And I would like to stress that the consideration received by the government by abolishing the increased VAT on five islands was answered by the mayors of the islands themselves. The Mayor of Lesvos, the Mayor of Samos, the Mayor of Chios, Leros and Kos island responded proudly to the Government: "We do not want to reduce VAT. We do not want any more refugees and illegal immigrants. Respect the will of the people at last. Italy, where a genuine hope has arisen for Europe with the Lega of North and Salvini, has called for the Dublin Agreement to be terminated, this agreement which Mrs Gennamas called for and that the PASOK had signed and the New Democracy had maintained. Unfortunately, Greece was not written on the side of Italy, but it was written on the side of Merkel, which left Tsipras and socialist Sanchez saved. Because we are talking left, I really had a lot of fun yesterday, on July 4th, a national feast of the United States of America, where some "US people" with "the term is yours, Mr Zurari - they were costed to the American Embassy and forgot their youth, where they had broken dozens of pairs of shoes protesting and shouting "killers of the peoples of America". The chosen Americans, chosen by the plutocrats, chosen by Merkel now, walk and all they care about is power. Even Bulgaria refused to relocate illegal immigrants and refugees on its territory, as did Hungary, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic. Even Albania has refused, stating that it refuses to do so even if it is in return for entry into the European Union. Instead, Greece accepted. I'll say a few words about the economy. Big lie the end of the memorial. As long as there is a debt under English law, there is, in fact, not just a memorandum, but a hard memorandum. Besides, what will it be? Won't it be a memorial? As far as the enslavement of our homeland to lenders until 2060 with a mortgage on national property is concerned, it reminds us of the loans of the match of 1824 when the brothers Ricardo and other chosen bank houses of City of London were asked to mortgage the national property, namely Corinthia and Argolida against the debt. What they did not do at the time, which were really slain with the Turks, the Greeks who did not even have a state, is today a left-wing government that is supposed to be under the famous superstition of national property. Primary surplus of 32 billion until 2022. Mr. Mitsotakis says he will bring growth, which is not there. And how will he bring her? With this primary surplus, is it possible to bring it? Oh, no. Do you promise he'll report it? Oh, no. Does he send a letter to say he's against all this? No development will come. The New Democracy really is embarrassing. He will talk again about the continuation of the state, if he takes power after a year, after a few months. Let him finally commit to denounce all these anti-grassroots measures. But he doesn't. In Italy, Salvini shows the way. Hard negotiations. Greece will not develop unless it has a stable tax system. It has been mentioned in the newspapers recently that there are tens of billions of euros outside bank accounts in the lockers, drawers, in the mattresses. How do you want this money to be invested when taxation exceeds 50%? Golden Dawn proposes: Taxation of 15% for businesses and 20% for natural persons. This will make money on the surface, so growth will begin, so new jobs will be created. However, the great problem of the Greek economy is the debt problem. To be honest, because you advertise that you have set the debt, it has not been cut off by the debt or one euro. A prolongation has taken place. Golden Dawn insists, as SYRIZA insisted, until power becomes power: there needs to be accountability for the debt and the issue of the euro must be taken seriously, and if it is of interest to our country, a coordinate exit with the parallel development of our national economy. Our economy can only be competitive with national currency, only by returning to national production and of course by exploiting our mineral wealth, first of all hydrocarbons. Only the deposits south of Crete are the public debt twice. But to exploit the hydrocarbons we need airplanes, we need freshmen, we need weapons, powerful Armed Forces that will prevent either Turks or any prosecuting neighbor from preventing us from exploiting our national wealth. But the problem of the country is also a political one. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is evidently a minority government. If you had political politics, you should resign immediately, proclaim elections here and now. You fight us in every way, all together. We are the last hope of the Greeks, the Greece that comes, the Golden Dawn that will rise at home and bring new days, a new Greek sun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u91	Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u92	Tsipras, Mitsotakis. Mitsotakis, Tsipras. "The donkey said the flying head." As much as you exacerbate the hollow occult between you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government and gentlemen of the New Democracy Officer, you cannot hide the gentleman: your substantial agreement in the directions and measures that will knee our people off the burdens even more in the next period. Your controversy about who is a political fraud and who is incapable as a manager, cannot hide your commitments to cut down pensions in the next few years, reduce further the tax-free limit, continue the popular sacrifices to recover the profitability of monopolistic groups. The recent positioning of BSE is the most revealing testimony of what comes next day, about what you want to hide, creating a climate of artificial polarization. What's BSE asking for? To reduce further the so-called non-wage costs, to maintain hunger wages, to reduce capital taxation even further, in other words to increase the bleeding of employees and self-employed persons. What does BSE recommend? To avoid political polarisation and to continue the determined anti-grass-free reforms. It is, therefore, clear that hand - hand, creditors and the domestic ruling class have launched the worst days to come for workers. It is indeed a challenge for the government to speak of a duplex between progress and maintenance, when today it receives praise from the staff of the European Union, NATO, the American Government and, of course, from German social democracy. It is challenging to show up as profound differences with New Democracy whether to suspend, for a few months in essence, go to the polls of the parliamentary elections, your commitments to cut off pensions. The JRC has revealed and denounced the cracking of the labour and insurance rights of workers who have led to large wage and pension cuts and claims to cover losses, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. Losses for job distractors continue. Despair conditions are created, confirming the estimates that the memorial era will be accompanied by new measures to cover the bloody surpluses and to satisfy the demands of business groups. If you really want to relieve pensioners and not mock them again until the next elections, then vote for the amendment that we tabled to you this morning and which is in the bill of the Ministry of Labour which will be discussed next Tuesday, to abolish all of the regulations of Law 4387/2016 which provide for the re-evaluation of pensions and the reduction of the personal difference. We are also tabling it in the Minutes - it has already been tabled - so that you can have it and study it. You have time until Tuesday. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas tables for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Also, proceed to the immediate abolition of Article 12 of the Katrugalo Law to restore widow’s pensions, as was before this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a great challenge to show as a prologue the reduction in VAT, which you yourself had increased in the islands and, indeed, when you speak of a reduction in only five Aegean islands and not all of them. We remind you that you are all accountable, because with the third memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL Congress - but also the other parties that voted for it, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami - you committed yourself to abolishing the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. Reduced VAT was a counterbalance for the consequences that make life difficult for islanders. The temporary maintenance of the reduced VAT on five islands until 31 December this year and the refugee situation is an act of legalisation of the dangerous, reactionary policies of the European Union, which turns our islands into permanent places for the capture of refugees and migrants. The JRC claims to abolish VAT on popular consumption. In this context we propose maintaining the reduced VAT on the whole Aegean islands. That is why we tabled an amendment - an addition to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour which will be discussed on Tuesday, and we challenge you to vote on it, if you do not intend, again, to make fun of this half-yearly islanders who are actually suffering. I give it to you, too, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas tables for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] It is challenged to have taken new, permanent anti-grassroots measures for all the years ahead and to tell us that they are compensated for by certain aids that will only be given once to certain categories, mainly extreme poverty. But the aids, the compensation they deserve, especially the projects that should have been done and have not even begun for eight months since the catastrophic floods, the residents of Mandra and the other regions affected by the fatal floods are still waiting for them. Yesterday I was there on the JRC's step, now that they've erased the publicity lights, and the promises remain unfulfilled until a new disaster. Who gives you the right, gentlemen, to SYRIZA, PASOK, New Democracy - why do you have responsibilities for previous times of governance - to play with the lives of people, people's people's families in Mandra? You know that shops are opening up - as the residents themselves, professionals and shopkeepers were telling us - only for psychological reasons, since there is no man in the shop, because you with your policy, your bureaucracy, your analgesia, have pre-scheduled them, at the same time as you give them warm money to groups, supposedly investors of your development, but it eliminates the weak, poverty. You will find us in front of you and that is why on all other issues, every day, every hour, until you solve these problems. With the pragmy of the tie you had the courage to go out to the Greek people and to announce that you solved the debt issue, that the problem was allegedly resolved through your tough negotiation. Really, Mr. Tsipras, let's see exactly what the Greek people won: The amount of state debt, which you are asking to repay again, remains stable and has not been reduced to a minimum. You will tell us that you have taken a time shift for the 10-year loan for the EFSF loans. In fact, you're trying to hide the problem of great state borrowing under the carpet, push it a little further into the future, when you're also going to be a political memory. The fact that your solution does not even guarantee the unfamiliar sustainability of the debt is seen by the relative position of the International Monetary Fund. Soon, before the elections, you will definitely prepare a formal exit to the markets. You will proceed to a bond issue, which you will tell us is sealing market confidence, but it is perfectly logical, we tell you, that this should happen, very simply because all you have won with the negotiation is the possibility of not paying the state back loans to EFSM for a decade by pushing them back a little. What does that allow? Security for those who are lending today in the Greek state who will get their money back, since in the decade you have secured there are no other major credit obligations. The workers only think who is paying and who will benefit from the new debt arrangement. Your agreement binds the workers of the country to monstrous primary surpluses of 3.5% for the next four years and then to unspecified surpluses of over 2.2% by 2060, charging to three generations of Greek workers to repay the various loans. So what does the employee, the self-employed, the professional, the scientist, the farmer, the retired person have to expect? Quarterly primary surpluses for decades. So the new debt regulation means that the people will bleed again. Your second lie, from which you can no longer hide, is that the infamous surveillance is over. You do not stop proclaiming to everyone that the country is now coming out of the tunnel of strict supervision, creditors' decisions and standing on its feet. You celebrate because the new period will be radically different because, as you say, the outsiders will not decide, but we will decide here. But if we look at the reality, someone who knows how to read, he understands what you've been negotiating for so many hours. You were negotiating how to hide the continuation of supervision by the Greek people and the solution was found to translate it as a cooperation and support project. But you cannot hide that this is essentially a continuation of strict supervision for an indiscriminate period of time, without taking into account the rules and surveillance framework that exists for all the Member States of the European Union. The agreement you signed provides for a continuous, permanent, strict framework for the control of economic developments in the country. It provides that the tiles of creditors, institutions and partners - as you say them, it does not matter, it does not change, and nothing - will be at regular intervals in Greece and will monitor the progress of the country's economic developments. Surely, gentlemen of the government, you'll think of something. After you got them out of the Ministries to meet hotels, you'll think of something now. You may make the meetings in a luxurious meeting area, such as the ones you are building now, with great mania even in the coastal zone from Piraeus to the Greek. But wherever the meetings take place, reality is not hidden. The audit, the reports on the implementation of the measures will continue for many more years. You are trying to defend yourself by saying that this supervision is different, that it is financial supervision, that it is about achieving the objectives, and that the way in which it will be done is now our business. This is what you tried to do in your recent interview, Mr. Tsipras, on a favourite network at the "Bloomberg". What does that mean? It means that the government will choose how the people are slaughtered on the basis of the priorities of the domestic bourgeoisie. The agreement you signed is clear and there is absolutely no doubt that it leaves no room for doubt. Once again you have committed yourself to the fact that all the reforms that have been implemented will be maintained. The agreement repeatedly speaks of a programme that belongs to the Greek authorities, and you even accepted as a government and repeatedly congratulated on these performances, about how much you have believed in these anti-grassroots reforms. The agreement, which gives flexibility to the Greek Government, however, clearly contains the anti-grassroots measures that you need to implement in the next period and at the same time connects their implementation to any debt relief measures. So who are you trying to make fun of? The agreement you have brought provides for continuous on-the-spot supervision by the institutions, which will examine every three months whether specific anti-grassroots measures have been implemented and will propose corrective measures. Everything else you say is about internal, micro-particular, political consumption. Also, what exactly do you mean when you say that we will all decide together on the harsh anti-grassroots measures? Did any pensioners here in Greece, any employees, any self-employed persons? Do you believe that they have uniform interests, in fact, in Greek society, the major shareholders of the groups and those who give their daily battle to survive? Your most raw lie is that with your agreement that you signed the troubles of workers are ending, because we have to admit that your courage is literally disgusting. Let's see what the agreement you signed is what the reality is. First of all, you are proclaiming by your agreement your commitment to shield all the major reforms so far. You say, in other words, that the slaughtering of people's rights in wages, in pensions, in taxes will be shielded in biennial terms, that there will be no retreat, no relief. You do not, however, confine yourself to observing the previous anti-grassroots measures, because the memorial period, which will very quickly remove austerity, actually brings new even more harsh measures. It is enough to read the annex to your agreement to understand that the memorial period translates into new hard sacrifices for the workers. Whatever it is that you are licking about pensions, about the clear, absolute, cynical commitment to your reforms - the key that have already been promoted - testifies to how many pensioners will pay a billion euros by abolishing the personal difference from the beginning of 2019, while the reduction in duty will lead to a new bleeding of popular incomes from the beginning of 2020. You can no longer make fun of anyone. You cannot, of course, explain to us how you will avoid pension scrubbing when you have already agreed a surplus of 3.5% and when you have agreed to shield the adopted measures. We're talking about it again for insight. Your agreement provides for a new tax bleeding of the people through a new increase in ENVY and the objective values in people's homes, while you made a clear commitment that you would go not only on armoring but also on a new extension of the management framework for non-performing loans, which is simply translated into a new aggressive expansion of the auctions so that everyone could be forced to pay to support the banking capital. Promise generally and vaguely changes in wages and improvement in working conditions, and you are consciously lying once again. Because the swinging agreement, as the new Moses, speaks of a shielding of the competitiveness of capital and of choices of minimum wages with that and only the criterion. You reveal, because with this criterion wages will not come back. They'll stay in charge. Nothing positive is there? You'll ask us. Positive to who? We'll answer you. Of course, for your friends in BSE, SETE, the other representatives of capital. Of course, for your friends in investment funds. The deal is filled with elements that all of you have with them, it allows you to celebrate. The complete liberalisation of investments with the ex post formal checks that are dismantling even the current minimum protection grid, which is now under way, is a point that certainly allows you to smile, because the most famous investments are coming. It's coming, you see, growth. The aggressive promotion of privatization in dozens of different sectors is another side on which your friends will reward you. Your agreement reiterates your clear commitment to transfer to the large capital and complete the privatisations in energy, water, transport. Privatisations that will lead to huge cost evacuation for other parties, for people's families. You come with courage and say that the measures bring you social justice, that this is a mixture of policy, a redistribution from those who have toward the poor, that those who have to put their hands in the pocket as merciful to support the weak. Gentlemen of the government will shortly be telling us that he is also a privileged employee with 10,000 years of income, which you are fighting with taxation. But rich is not the retired person of EUR 1,300 who will cut his pension. Rich man is not a rich man who has a small cottage and who, in order not to lose his home because of debts in the bank, is forced to sell a burger than he is, because otherwise he is not part of the Katseli law. Your policy is to uncover all those who still have something to give, to get rid of employees, self-employed, pensioners who are not in deprivation, in order to feed only the profitability of the monopolistic groups. And to cover up this situation, you also give little crumbs to the absolutely impoverished. Your logic has one single objective: to cover the real wealth, the profits of shipowners, industrialists, banks that accumulate billions of euros at the expense of workers. The real dividing line is not between the five hundred euro wager and the tenant of the thousand euros. It is between the vast majority of workers and your political bosses, the groups you are feeding through development laws, tax evasion, privatisation and the blood of workers from their exploitation. It takes courage to baptize "social justice" to actually break the people, to take their pockets ten, to give nine to the groups and one that you give back to the people with the various countermeasures to baptize "social justice". Stop that mocking. Indeed, growth - capitalist growth, to explain - comes, even at the rate of turtle. It's not that important right now. The GDP recovery rates will get their tops, the Groups' profits will stabilise. After all, you have taken care of that with your policy. What you are doing is stabilising the Group's profits. The austerity policy that you bring to the memorial period has this wrapping: not to sabotage capitalist profitability, not to lose what the rich people have won. That is why, in the whole world, we are talking about promoting such anti-grassroots measures. Capitalist profitability requires cheap labour and reforms that guarantee the profits of big capital. That is what you are doing, and that is what your colleagues in other countries are doing. You bring measures that guarantee capitalist profitability, which is why they keep your political bosses and exploit you only in that direction. Your development is stepping on workers' crack, maintaining anti-grass measures, new measures that will come, for cheap labour. That is why workers must be afraid of this development, which, whatever you do, cannot be stable for a long time. The overcompensation of capital is the real problem that cannot be addressed. Worldwide, overcrowded funds that do not find a profitable way out are growing. Their characteristic expression is the huge state debts, which are no longer managed. That is why the emergence of a new capitalist crisis is almost inevitable. Hold that. That is why intra-imperialist opposition is increasing and the possibility of a generalised war is constantly growing. And keep that. You, gentlemen of the government, can no longer hide the role you play here in the wider region. You have taken the role of signifier of the interests of the United States of America and NATO, even risking Greece's participation in a war race, for the interests of monopolistic groups. So your big new propaganda lie, with which you're probably going to the elections, is that the new period will be polemic. But we are telling you clearly, and we warn this Greek people that this development requires only new suffering for the people. The new agreement you bring prescribes precisely this: new burdens for armoring only the profits of the few, at the same time as the possibility of a new crisis and involvement of the country, even in war adventures, is constantly increasing. You are, of course, a successful manager, Mr Tsipras, of this rotten and corrupt system. That is why the New Democracy finds it difficult to oppose you in substance and even discover left-hand elements in your policy where they do not exist, risking even its seriousness, as the main urban party expressing the policy of big capital. But we will not let you continue with this pragmatism of artificial polarization. We've lived this with all the previous ones, with the New Democracy and the PASOK with their feats, and now with SYRIZA and his own extermination. The bourgeoisie was joined politically for many years, first as a reserve, to limit the JRC, and then as a gesemi in the political system and finally as a power, as part of the power in the chair of government power. The light-dark, progress - maintenance, right-wing - listener and tumbowls are just to hide the full identification of both of you in today's sovereign and extremely dangerous Euro-Atlantic policy. Your individual differences in the mixture of anti-grass policy, which you both implement, do not save you or are enough to convince that one of you is supposedly less evil than the other. Both of you and your necessary collars are as dangerous to the people's interests, to the rights of people, to the welfare of this people and of this place. So in the hand of our people, of workers, of young people, it is to get to the forefront of organising their counterattack against all of you who bleed their dreams, stealing them the same life. We in this battle will be present every hour, every moment, with dynamism and consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u93	Thank you. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Staff of the Anti-Population Officer has today questioned his meeting with Merkel and Solts, where an appealer went to Europe in order not to talk about the clear exit, not to say that Greece is coming out of the economic crisis and indeed to try together in the European Parliament with three New Democracy MEPs, in order to strengthen the very image of the country. Only the behaviour of the New Democracy MEPs or yesterday's report and the style of the Vice-President of the New Democracy - which the entire Greek people saw from television - telling Moskovis that, if you are not to cut pensions, tell us, to change our policy, they show that this panic that has led the Acoustic Opposition and PASOK is a panic that has led for the first time to the history of postmopulation two opposition parties to mobilise not their party vice-population policy, but the very national economy and the Greek people. It reminds me of what the late Christodoulus said about the policy he wants his neighbor not to be begging for his own income, but to die next door. But here, it is not the case that the seed of the other side dies, that the government's policy fails. Here, begging that the Greeks die, that the national economy is blown to death. They get upset, they get sad when they see Greece coming forward. And I really do wonder how it is possible that we have reached this point. Politicians have gone through this House very hard: Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou. Constantine Mitsotakis with Andreas Papandreou and Simitis. They were political opponents who have been very fiercely opposed, but have never, at least, dared to undermine the country itself, the citizens of the country they represent. And that is a phenomenon in which we have been driven, precisely because we have moved the parties themselves. Mr Mitsotakis said earlier in his speech 'We are the centreright, the historical party'. What historic party? Is the word of Kyriakos Mitsotakis any connection today with the word of Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Mitsotakis, Evangelos Averov, of Costas Karamanlis? Have we ever seen from this here the Head of Staff of the Opposition publicly pleading that national policy be thrown into the air? Oh, no. Why? Because it's not even central right. Mr. Vorides and Mr. Georgiadis laughed when the Prime Minister from Stepa told them that they had taken over the leadership of the New Democracy. Mr Mitsotakis also laughed at them, in fact accepting that this party, which belongs to Central Right, but within the framework of the democratic arch, the party that restored democracy, has today his parliamentary representative, the one who took over the presidency of ENP youth by Nikos Michaliakos, Mr Vorides. He has a Vice - president of the one who wrote antisemitic books and attended with neonazis at joint events. They have handed over the party that restored democracy and cooperated at some point, in co-operation with the Communist Party of Greece, with the Left, with the Government of National Unity, and today they regain logic that come to match with a new anti-communism, born within Europe by purely neonazi parties. That is the political picture of today. And in this political picture of today, in the anticipation of a party like New Democracy, a party of the Civilian opposition, the government's proposal is a proposal of national unity, a proposal of two parties that are in other political areas, with our own differences made public and honest, but with a decision to cooperate in order to get the country out of this lot, which Greek citizens have suffered over the last eight years. Today's pre-dated agenda debate on the economy and after Pierre Moscovici's recent reassurances here, before everyone, concerns the clear exit of our country from the memoranda, the regulation of debt and the return of Greece to the markets, the constitutional, economic and budgetary regularity of the Eurozone and thus the recovery of our national and economic sovereignty. It is now final and irreversible and will finally have to, Mr. Mitsotakis, to digest it and you, after having succeeded in even taking advantage of your ideological guidance, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras, the Minister of Finance of the Greek Bank of Greece, and today's Governor of the Bank of Greece, that there will be no fourth memorandum, there will be no new measures, no new measures, no again the Troika will come to Greece in order to exercise national sovereignty. And the exit from the memorials is precisely the one that the government committed to the Greek people in September 2015: clean, without a preventive credit line and with Greece regulating its debt and returning high-headed to the markets. But, ladies and gentlemen, all this would never have been possible and would not have been done today, if the Independent Greeks - and I personally - were listening to the sirens of late-minded celebrities, those who had handed over the term "Macedonia" many years ago and today appear as supposedly fighters of the purity of the name, then, of course, the instructions of the new leadership of the New Democracy. If we were to fall into the black front of the complex and troika outside - which, on the occasion of the 'Macedonian', attempted to change the current agenda and wanted to convince us supposedly of the good of our country, namely, for the good of their own batch - that we should throw the government away. So I ask you directly, looking at you in the eyes, ladies and gentlemen, would we be here today on a prior-day order for the economy, for the end of the memoranda, for the regulation of Greek debt and the clear exit of Greece into the markets, if the Greek Parliamentary Group was throwing the government away? And why would we fire the government, ladies and gentlemen? To make the thanks to Soros' willing parliamentary riders to form new government majorities? To pass these by their own vote here in the Greek Parliament, the composite name? Did you forget Mr. Theodorakis? A few days ago he said willing to take this role, with the sole condition that the Independent Greeks leave the government and, in order to convince his sponsors, he reached the point of dissolving the Change Movement, leaving Mrs. Gennamas with more VET than the number of its MPs. Throwing the government, why? To do the work of the troika of the interior and its civil servants, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Theodorakis, Mrs Gennimatas, Mr Venizelos, Mr Stournaras and all the others, who, while the government gave the fight against clean exit from the memorialities, asked the European Central Bank and the IMF for a new Memorandum of Preventive Credit Line? The Governor of the Bank of Greece did not make a statement after the success of the financial staff and the negotiators of the Greek Government. Why would we fire the government? To open champagne on the black front of corruption and interrelatedity? In economic crime, in gangs of all kinds of smugglers and drug dealers, who have at this time played their change in the fall of government, through the doggies, telling the junta to leave? To those who fund black-moneyed parties from Turkish heroin, parliamentary and extra-parliamentary, did they pay distances, MP takeovers, brochures, websites, social media and channels? All of these inmates of the Soros Foundation, the internal troika and the black front of corruption, the interministerial and smugglers and narcotics have come together in an unprecedented political and economic consortium, with the sole purpose of demolition of the government's majority and all the sacrifices to overthrow the government, so as not to get Greece out of the memorials and not to regulate the debt, to save prison the lame of "NOVARTIS" and CYCFN, the sea-sortships of the New Democracy and the PASOK and the media and all the other scandals, which only this government for the first time in Greece's history has dared not only explore them, but also to send them to justice. So, ladies and gentlemen, they have baptized and baptized themselves overnight Macedonians. And the most tragic thing of all is that their political leaders are the same as those responsible for the hot potato of the "Macedonian" which, together with the thousands of other problems, flew to the hands of our own government, national, political, social and economic. They are those who, in order to save their bodies, not only Macedonian people, but even mercenaries would go to Central Africa and when they supposedly fought for Macedonia, the first thing they had to ensure was the deletion of their sea-savings in Attica Bank. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Fofi Gennimatas, with the help of their own man, his own subordinate to his loans to the Agricultural Bank, Mr. Pantalakis, encouraged the sale of the sea loans of PASOK and of the New Democracy to a known fund, in order to pay 3% to 5% of their current balance and continue to mock the executives, MPs and their voters, but also the thousands of missing patriots who protest at the symposiums that they allegedly serve them and that fortunately after uncovering the scandal and the question put here a few days ago in the House, Mr. Pantalakis was forced to cancel the sale, saying that he was allegedly wrong. These happened when they attacked the Independent Greeks. Do you now understand how unrepentant and how ruthless the political instigators of the new "Macedonian" are, and what are the real objectives they want to achieve at all costs in overthrowing the government? So these tragic caricatures of the political and economic life of the place framed in the false record of their alleged Macedonian struggle thousands of Greek patriots, whom they managed to convince that the recent proposal of distrust allegedly concerned the "Macedonian". And at the same time that the government's agenda today is the clear exit from the memoranda and debt regulation, the sacrifice of corruption and of interlocutory with the exemplary punishment of all those responsible for the country's financial and budgetary collapse, for the packages, poverty, unemployment, suicides, the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who took the road of hostility and for our children who are killed every day by the press, this press brought by their donors. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for the 'Macedonian'. This time, as I have already said many times before, will be if it ever comes and when the agreement to vote in Parliament comes and at that time the Independent Greeks have made it clear what we are going to do. The question is: If the proposal comes with a hundred and eighty Members, what will the New Democracy do? What will New Democracy do, which is promised by Mrs Merkel, but what does it say abroad and others on the inside? Will the line of Belgrade of Kostas Karamanlis or the line of Adonis Georgiadis be followed? That's the question. I read to you, Mr Mitsotakis, yesterday's statement by the Government representative, Mr Janakopoulos, did not miss you: "The proposal by Mr Kammenos, which is a political proposal, will be considered, as will any other proposal, when our government partner submits it. It will be a field of discussion, the subject of consultation within the government, so that, when the time comes, any decisions can be taken." You understand, Mr. Mitsotakis, what did he say? That the joke is over and the House may be invited to ratify the agreement with an eighty-eight votes. What are you going to vote at that time? We know very well what to vote on. We are expressly and categorically against any name that contains the term 'Macedonia'. What are you going to do, Mr Mitsotakis, when at that critical hour hit your phone and listen to the same voice on the other side of your headphone, which until yesterday told you to discuss a memorandum and a preventive credit line, then tell you to vote 'yes' in ratifying the agreement, since you too belong to the majority of the complex name by geographical definition, namely 'North Macedonia'? Will the nomadic, progressive, right-wing components of your party be voted on then? What, then, will the Vice-President of the New Democracy's Vice-President 'NOVARTIS Macedonia' vote, which invented the 'Macedonian' to escape the ghost of 'NOVARTIS', of the 5 million and the indictments that will soon be knocking at the door, and how many casualties will you have in the vote, if any of the prisoners then who are known as your MPs will not be allowed to vote in the House? These are the tough ones, Mr. Mitsotakis. I know, but you are the one who, unfortunately, put yourself in this difficult position. You tried to reduce the huge success of the government even in the eyes of the lenders, who surprised you to resign Mr. Moscovisi, when a few days ago, from this Stepma told you that pensions would not be reduced. Fortunately, that Mr Moscovici belongs to the European socialists, because, if he were in the European People's Party, you would have already initiated the same procedure against him as Mr Michalo. You would erase him, too. Fortunately for European socialists, who have Mrs Gennimata, along with the neoliberal weights of Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdou, who carry her on her back, have her as a component of the New Democracy and the European People's Party and do not take her seriously. I remember a few months ago that he put in to talk to Mr. Pitella, who didn't want to see her a painter. Of course, there was also a champion in the case of opposition tactics, and it was precisely Mr. Hatzidakis who insulted Mr. Moscovisi for the pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek pensioners are neither SYRIZA nor PASOK nor New Democracy nor Independent Greeks nor KKE. They fight and fight for their pensions and for their pensions, we fight and we fight for the government. These Greek pensioners we have a people's mandate to protect them and you should ask that their pensions be not reduced. I am sure that the government's financial staff will succeed and we will soon be able to announce to these people that they have no more to fight for. Ladies and gentlemen, if you keep the same line then the pensioners will be chased by you and we will not have invited them to hunt you down the streets. Remember that. To sum up, with the agreement, on which the Civic Opposition caused today's debate, we won the following: the fifth and last instalments of the programme, which was agreed at EUR 15 billion. Of these, EUR 5.5 billion will be disbursed in a separate account to be used for debt service. The remaining EUR 9.5 billion will contribute to the creation of a liquidity pillow, which will be used in an emergency for debt service. Thus the total liquidity cushion will be formed at EUR 24.1 billion and will be able to meet the country's financial needs for twenty-two months, after the end of the current programme, in August 2018, so that no preventive credit line is needed. And the new Memorandum with these measures, which you've dreamed of, will never exist. Greece found the exit from the memorandum and this exit is completely clear. Gross financing needs will remain below 15% of GDP over the medium term and below 20% of GDP over the long term. For the debt we have achieved medium-term relief measures with a forward-looking implementation, which will be implemented as a result of the short-term actions already taken. With the abolition of increases in bond interest rates related to debt rescheduling under the second aid programme, this measure will be implemented as from 2018. We were able to use the profits of the European Central Bank from the use of Greek bonds, which will be transferred to Greece for a six-month period, starting from 2018 until 2022. We have managed to postpone the obligation to pay interest and amortisation by EFSF and to extend by 10 years the average maturity of the bonds held by EFSF. Today, he owns the Greek bonds worth 100 billion euros. The main thing, however, is the assessment of the sustainability of the debt, which did not end here, but as soon as Eurogroup made a commitment that after the end of the grace period, in 2032, it will reassess the viability of the Greek debt and will proceed with additional relief measures. In other words, the achievement of primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP up to 2022 and 2.2% of GDP on average for the period 2023 to 2060 was confirmed. The 2.2%, which I heard Mrs Gennimata say, ladies and gentlemen, is in any case less than 2.6% of the European Union's rules, since in the memoranda the country would not have entered, on the basis of the debts inherited from the Anti-Population, the obligations on the surpluses would have been greater. The commitments for the implementation of reforms, which have already been agreed, are linked to the return of profits from the bonds of the European Central Bank and the abolition of interest rate increases by 2022. The evaluation of the reforms will be carried out on a quarterly basis, as part of the usual memoranda of monitoring of the economic, financial and financial situation of the country, as is done in all the countries of the European Union, which were not in a Memorandum. And the role of the International Monetary Fund is limited to memorandum supervision and it ceases to play the role of a lender. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister himself said, we have won a critical battle, but we still have many battles in front of us, with the first and foremost fights to spread the beneficial effects of the agreement to Greek society. That's what you're afraid of. That's why you want to overthrow the government. There will be no new measures. And since the exit is clear, Greece will have every opportunity to assess the already agreed countermeasures. We have before us the possibility of examining the increase in minimum wages, the continuation of the distribution of social dividends and the tax relief of charges which have been excessively burdened by the memos. The Independent Greeks will place enormous emphasis on the burning issue of private debt, which tortures households and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the debt that all Greeks have in banks, public and insurance funds, and which currently exceeds EUR 300 billion. In the context of greater freedom of movement for government policy, guaranteed by the net exit from the Memorandums, in the coming months we will give the battle of everyday life, to improve and implement more effectively all the arrangements, in particular those of the extrajudicial mechanism for debt regulation, the regulation of hundreds of instalments, bank brokering, the effective protection of the first home from auctions, the possibility of borrowers to redeem their debts on loans and cards from banks and funds at prices commensurate with their respective sales. We will not allow some to trade in the suffering of the Greeks. We will stand on the side of the Consumers' Counselor, to punish and smuggle all kinds of arbitrary matters, especially those of banks and profit companies. This, of course, Mr Mitsotakis, does not mean that we will give you the loans of "Cryka of Chania" or of the sea loans of yours, of the New Democracy, and the corresponding PASOKs, which currently exceed EUR 500 million and are equivalent to at least 15 scandals of Koskotta. In particular, this New Democracy party, during the period taken over by the arrogance of power, was proclaiming by mouth Vorides and Varvichiotis that anyone who has no payment must lose his home. Do you remember these things that you are talking about today in social policy? And don't take advantage of the generosity of the Prime Minister, who didn't put the sea-lovings of the parties on the prerequisites of the latest evaluation. Because that is the only way you have today the luxury of giving rise to a debate in the House on the agreement on the economy and calling for "fals". I imagine you can see where you would be today if your party could not collect a penny of sacks from state budget funding, which brings to your funds at least EUR 5 million per year. So take care, from now on, there in the New Democracy to find out who will first lose his home to pay off your own sea loans. However, I would recommend that we start at Voltaire's house. Also, make sure you stop mocking Greeks, pretending to be housewives. You dare criticise and claim you can better and more efficient Greece's finances and make the debt, public and private, sustainable. So why don't you start with your party? Why don't you make your balance sheet and debts sustainable? How are you going to make Greece surplus while you are unable to make a surplus of your party's budget, running with deficits of more than 20 million a year? How are you going to make the Greek debt sustainable, when you are unable to make your bank debt viable, which has exceeded EUR 250 million and is running at an increase rate of EUR 25 million per year? And I ask, are you borrowing these? I will submit the last budget of the New Democracy, the one hiding from the executives, MPs and voters, the one who dares to post on its official page after what I have said, and who comes to the safe conclusion that Mr Mitsotakis is a strategic mispaid man, since they do not pay a penny to banks, not only for the capital of loans, but also for interest. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The prerequisites for a robust production of healthy economy from now on are, firstly, healthy and competitive entrepreneurship, the tax return system, the law and arrogant state, the return of moral values to society and institutions. The Independent Greeks, in order to comply with this, will fight to make a deepening of the problem of bureaucracy, seeking to eliminate them with proposals that will decongested bureaucraticly large business projects, which will also live up to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy and will save millions of euros in the public sector. We will also fight for efficient and rapid procedures by setting up business services centres with increased responsibilities and interventions between businessmen and a state to remove bureaucratic obstacles, for the mandatory electronic handling of documents in the public sector, with the aim of having a common database per natural person. That's what we have to do now. This time is investment time, the time we all have to make it easier, and especially as a government, for those who trust us to come to invest. There was never another time in our homeland when the American ambassador came out in a public speech and invited investors to come to Greece. This is nowhere in a country other than that coming out of the memoirs. And the rating houses themselves who sent us here and suggest that investors come to invest in Greece. In our hands, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is these six months that we should facilitate investment, reduce unemployment further, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can breathe. The proposals of the Independent Greeks will come in a few days' time, with the drafting of laws to introduce a stable tax return system, so that no one is surprised that every small and medium-sized enterprise will proceed to long-term plans for its viability and development. It is necessary to mobilise with tax incentives for stable Greek capital that are already abroad and internally and are not the product of black political money, which needs another, much harder to deal with. Investments in other capital must in any way include the extraction, exploitation of minerals and the processing of the production of products, tourism, with the exception of the common focus, transport of all kinds, transport infrastructures and roads, all types and forms of agricultural, livestock, fisheries, production of all kinds of industrial and craft production, particularly in sectors which do not exist or operate such a production in Greece. We believe in the escalating reduction in HPAI, inversely proportional to the tax that one receives, using the surplus, in the gradual abolition of HPAI for the first place, as the Prime Minister has already announced, by using the surplus, and in the calculation of the costs of each household of all evidence using a card. In order to implement all of this, we will contribute with the deposit of specific draft laws and, of course, it is important to move forward with constitutional changes, with the abolition of the anti-democratic law on liability of Ministers, as it exists in Article 86 of the Constitution. That is why it is imperative that, in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution, by interpretative provision to clarify thecritical crimes committed by the members of the government on the occasion of the lifting of their duties, such as that of bribery, money laundering, etc. It is undeniable that the above constitutional provision should be one of those which will be reviewed in the next constitutional revision. Criminal offences committed by Ministers, State Secretarys, must be tried in the ordinary courts, as is true of all Greek citizens, under the general criminal law. Immunity must not exist for anyone. We have already tabled the amendment to Law 3126/2003, which we call on the President of Parliament to put into the vote. Finally, for the productive reconstruction of the agricultural sector, at last, after 15 years, we have managed to remove a significant part of the debts of up to 60% of the farmers through the process of supervised negotiation, with the clearing company of the old agricultural Bank. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the policy that you have pursued so far by Officerial Opposition and PASOK, a policy of killing the germ next door, must be stopped here. There are healthy forces that have reacted by themselves. I saw Mr Meymarakis' tweet the day before yesterday, to which the Prime Minister mentioned today, in which he said that part of the success should be given to New Democracy, which voted for the 2015 programme, this programme that you are denying today. Isolate the neo-fascists. Let them go. They'll find the way. The donors are already in suitcases, either in the form of a well-being or in the form of a courier. They will take them away from them and in the end you will be left alone and orphans with their own politics. Take a serious responsibility for the country. Come on, criticizing the government, help the national effort. All Greeks will appreciate that. We took the first step as Independent Greeks. We are proud to have worked with a party that was on the ideological rival with us, but we acted on national reconciliation. When there are principles, it is easy to work together, and when, of course, you only have the good of your country and the good of the citizens and not the good of the "friends". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u95	I would ask that Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, should come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have differences with Mr Kammenos, but I also have a human obligation towards him. I want to relieve him of his permanent anxiety and say again that we will not become SYRIZA's "Funny". Mr Kammenos may, therefore, continue his far-reaching trips, as recently revealed 'TSE' or rather - apologies - 'THE VIMA'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u97	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u98	Yeah, there's a difference in the reporters. So, as the Greek press recently revealed, it can continue its far-reaching trips, of course, at the charge of the Greek people. Also, he can continue flights with Super Puma to his countryside in Ikaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u99	I've never been in my life with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u100	That's all for now. We, however, have other plans and other principles. I want to make a little reference to today, which is July 5th. I would expect the Prime Minister to make a reference to the 'Black Anniversary' and to tell you why it is 'Black Anniversary'. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I would like, after you put it this way, not to insist that the referendum helped the country and that a negotiating weapon was needed. The referendum was a backwards dip, a dangerous homicide, with a question that was not a question and an answer that was not an answer. And the country was saved from the violent exit from the European Union and sudden death, thanks to the efforts made on the next day of the referendum, on Monday, 6 July, in the Presidential Palace. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that I have never been a supporter of Prokopi Pavlopoulos. After all, our proposal for President of the Republic was constitutionalist Nikos Alivizatos. But - and this day I can mention it, and I must mention it - Prokopis Pavlopoulos played a decisive role in those critical hours, in cooperation with the President of the French Republic at that time, François Olad. Nor did Olad ever enchanted me, but he supported us at a very critical moment for the country, at a time when Europe was bored with the games of Varoufakis and the cheap sluts of the new SYRIZA - ANEL government. Of course, it was not only Prokopis Pavlopoulos, and let me have a small story parentheses. The then leaders of the democratic opposition, Mr Meimarakis, Mrs Gennamas and I, had to agree. Regardless of the pressures that the leaders have received from their parties, the result was that all three supported the turn to European reality, the turn of the SYRIZA - ANEL or the government, anyway, to European reality. And we drafted a communiqué guaranteeing Europeans that in Athens there are leaders to defend the European path without stars. I am saying this all because Mr Tsipras has to recognise it, as he must - and I think it will be something that will be appreciated positively from history - to ask for a great apologies for the tragic decisions in the first half of 2015. Then we dared. Here in Parliament I said "yes, yes to reforms, yes to national understanding, yes to creation, yes to the European state, which gives more to most, not to lies, not to recession, not to division, not to the tertiary world experiments of left luxuries", and you know to whom your former colleague I was referring mainly, "not to the bourgeoisie." I have said this here in the House and you will allow me to say that I could say the same today: truth, reforms, national consensus, creation, the European state, in order for most of them to have more. So since I have finished with this brief reference to the anniversarys, I should like to begin by addressing the subject of the agenda, namely the question of the economy. There are five 'boats' - five are not much, but it is not too little - that we need to go on the road to development. The first is about banks, capital controls and all the problems that have been created. There is no economy in the world that has achieved a high growth rate with Capital Controls, which you have brought almost celebrated, but are still here and choking entrepreneurship. Bank balances may be improved, but money on the market flows with the dropper. Red loans continue to exceed EUR 90 billion. There is a need for bold decisions, business restructurings, deletions, arrangements, strict frameworks, only for those who really do not. We need - and you know it, it's a regular financial paper title - an extra investment of around 20 billion a year. That, friends and friends, should be our only concern, especially this summer. In forty-seven days the country will be invited to walk on its own markets. The troika will exist. But there will be, not to give money, but only to be supervised. And one would expect today, which is actually the last debate in the House on the economy before August, to have a confrontation, a conflict over all the urgent needs to be made. The House was, however, transformed, under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, into an election balcony, all of us making our ears for our political opponents, without giving the answers that are imposed by times. So I was talking about investment. It's the big deal. Investments are blocked by bureaucrat castles. We're talking about the development train, without even stabilizing the tracks. Greece had and continues to have a bureaucraticly slow-moved party administration, blocked by guilds, dependent on rushphetti and small interests. I am talking about small interests because, of course, great interests always go directly to the high points, to the ministers, and so on. The memorials left the greatest cause of the Greek problem intact. The biggest cause of the Greek problem is the administration and the party state. Dozens of changes, which have been made under pressure from Europe, which would lead to the acceleration of permits for investment and jobs, are left on paper only. Examples now sound like jokes. To make one - recently released - a loft in the legal facilities of his business had to be re-checked by the Archaeological Service. A department chief, master or employee of the Ministry of Culture can easily make a life black to an investor, small or large. I do not know if you have noticed that, as its CEO of 'FRAPORT' yesterday, who undertook to modernise the fourteen regional airports, to start renovation work, two licences and approvals were needed, and very recently in the same attempt in St Petersburg, two authorisations were needed. You will have seen that, according to European surveys, in Greece 70% of businesses respond - it says that domestic bureaucracy is an obstacle to their development, while the European rate is only 39%. Greece therefore needs a programme of radical cuts and ruptures in the central state and in self-government, structures, responsibilities, budgets and human resources. Let me give you another example: A child is born in 1980. That year a business decides to start a court struggle to find its point. In 2014, the child of 1980, as a lawyer now, supported the case of the dispute between the company and suppliers, with the public, etc. It's not my building, it's not a science fiction. It is a real fact, mentioned a few months ago at a scientific conference organized by the Law Library in Athens. We all agree, then, that the times of justice in the country are tragic. Nearly millions of cases arise, about two thousand of them in the administrative courts. So let's go to the fourth 'neighbourhood'. We said about the banks, we said about bureaucracy, we said about the delay in justice. What's left? Taxation. Greeks have 100 billion euros due to tax debts, more than 30 billion due to the insurance funds and the government estimates to draw 48 billion dollars from the economy this year. The corporate profits tax rate is one of the largest in Europe, 29%, more important and greater than taxes respectively in many other countries of Europe, but most importantly it is far greater than any other tax in our geographical area. You realise that this is what we are interested in, because in these countries our entrepreneurship, the small one, and the large multinationals, are migrating. The rest is known. A young man who wants to do his own job has fixed annual expenses only toward the state of 3,000 euros. Without having sold anything, without having bought anything, it must give EUR 650 a trade fee and approximately EUR 2,500 - EUR 2,300 - to insurance contributions. You would have known that the day of tax freedom, namely the day of the year when the average taxpayer is finally working for him and not for the state, this year will be July 18, in thirteen days, and last year it was July 6. The small GDP and the waste of the client state is today the problem of the country, as it was yesterday, and the reduction - perhaps this is our difference with your own policies, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL - of the taxes that we need to do, which we need to do, is not just going through the fight against tax evasion - obviously the fight against tax evasion - but mainly passes through the drastic reduction in mismanagement in the public sector. And that's what you completely failed. The most important problem, however, - to end with the 'blacks' - is that everyone who deals with the science of politics is the divided political environment and the uncertainty which is constantly eroding over Athens. Do you honestly think - I would like to ask a question to everyone and to myself - that if, in the gallery of the House, international investors were today, on Monday would they be running to put their money on Greece, or would they be running away, after a nice weekend in our nice Athens? Then, of course, it's the other one. I have said this before and the government cannot, of course, say anything. Monday - Wednesday - Friday Mr. Kammenos is leaving, Tuesday - Thursday - Saturday Mr. Kammenos is staying and Sunday is playing krone - letters or other similar games. Safer environment, government stability, combined with a legislative and regulatory framework that does not change every three, and a little are the main factors in the successful attraction of investment. Polarization, division, distortion of reality, the'speaking of characters' that has been taking place in recent years are destabilising factors for the economy, as well as, of course, the obstacles to negotiations, the constant amendments to tax matters, insurance and the front - back to privatisation. The despair of entrepreneurship and private initiative should be a common place and a common effort. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing that can happen in our society is to get out of the memoranda, without understanding why we have entered, without recognising our mistakes and without trying to change our possibilities. The country - and I will insist - needs a policy with liberal European authorities, with a reformist momentum, with modern perceptions, with sensitivity to those who are not able, but also strict to those who do not want. The country needs politicians who are not constantly swaying between conservativeism and populism. The inability of conventional policies to adapt to the new social reality has multiplied in recent years those who refuse to vote and those who do not have what to vote. I do not know, in fact, whether you have noticed in today's poll, as in previous polls, that the size which is rapidly increasing is the unambiguous vote, namely those who do not know who to believe and who do not have what to vote. For us the solution is one and we've been saying it for about four years: New minds that will not be corroborated by the old way of thinking, new minds without dependency, new minds with experience in normal life, in the normal economy. The solution, in other words, in a country in crisis, is the one that has always been: big changes everywhere, no fear and no passion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u101	Thank you for the time, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u102	Let us make it quite clear, Madam President. You owe me three minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u103	Now Mr Leventis, President of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. The debate is, of course, about the economy and how the economy goes. I'll remind you of the story. Three, four months ago when the previous assessment was made, all SYRIZA MPs went out on the channels and said that they would come "QE" and that the debt would be reduced. He was a general denominator of all your speeches. It did not come 'QE' nor the debt was reduced. I'm sorry you didn't ask for it! You have now started a month ago saying that there will be no pension reductions at the end of the year and you will be doing so. In fact, some say so in a way that they are absolutely certain that pension reductions will not be made. And Mr Moskovis came here and said that 'Your country must fulfil all the obligations'. But you continue to say that pensions will not be reduced or tax-free will be reduced. All right! Should we go a little while ago to January 2015, when you said that you would smash memos and that you have other solutions and that Europe will change, that SYRIZA would change Europe? You did a referendum - and I think it is today's referendum anniversary - and it showed some TV this morning the dances you were dragging from the referendum winners, some dances reminiscent of the old PASOK, which, when they won, were baking for a week of lambs. That reminded me of that scene. And soon after Mr. Tsipras came out and went and signed the third memorandum. Excuse me? To God! "Sorry" to say? Why would you say "I'm sorry"? Does it need an apology in this country? In this country, we have become accustomed to the people swallowing everything, no matter what you give it to them. And Vitrioli to give him, he swallows it. There's been a gulop, a poll. Before signing the Skopje agreement, SYRIZA had 21%. He signed up for the new poll of the same company, again 21%. The one who made this gulope have to make a picture of him in your office at SYRIZA, because he won't be found again. From such a throat to pass and not to leave one of you? That's a nice goulop! It's very nice. Not even one voter left you! And we in the Central Association won half a unit, gentlemen! And you don't lose one! Mr. Varoufakis was also with Tsipras, along with Flamouraris, in the joys of that referendum. On the day of the referendum Mr. Varoufakis greeted you and Mr. Varoufakis, you know that? You may have forgotten, but there are videos. The New Democracy, of course, says it cost that seven months, eight months, how much it was, to two hundred billion takes off the bill. I'm not gonna take it that way, I'm not costing the billions of what happened to the country. I would also say that there was a party that had fallen completely out of its calculations and did not say a single apology. And you think that the people voted for you in September, but a people who did not understand what happened or what would follow. It was a people who were unaware of what this third memorandum was, what you signed, what consequences it would have! If you'd let the signatures fall and take action, then you'd know how much you'd take. Or don't you know? You have made SYRIZA the charity of your policy: you will give one another, you will give the other bonuses. The country doesn't want, gentlemen, bonamadas, it doesn't want to be merciful. Religion may need full - time, the country may not. The country wants development and seriousness policy. You are still addressing Greek citizens as if they were pathetic, to send them to the metropolitan to eat, to give them 300 euros in such ways. Change mentality. You're going to fall by the government, but at least get a party culture serious. Because Greece does not want this thing, to share bananas and to come as merciful to help the world, unless you want it third-world and fall on your feet if you have such views about Greece. I believe growth will give it a solution. And those who ask me "How, Mr. Leventis, development?" I say that growth in this place will be achieved when the money of deposits left abroad is returned and when foreign investments come. Has any of this happened? Oh, no. You try to cut wages and pensions and apply taxes. That's your policy. And how long will such a policy take? How much stamina does the world have to cut off their wages and pensions or come and say "we strive not to cut you"? Politics: 'We strive not to cut you off'! You are such good people that you are struggling not to cut off what you have voted in this Chamber to cut off the people! New Democracy, on the other hand, says that it will bring minimum guaranteed income, will reduce taxes. In everything good, New Democracy, noble. Only she doesn't tell us why she didn't come over the days and then she didn't have a single investment. Why didn't any investment come? In other words, a party that was tested two and a half years ago and had a complete failure in its economic policy now promises everything. And of course one who is in opposition promises everything to take the government. But how reliable can he be, how reliable, when tested precedent and completely failed? I think, gentlemen, that what you lack is honesty. If you said "we will fight, we will do everything, we will function consensually, we will give the country a picture of trust and unity and we believe with the help of everyone to change the climate", that would accept, because I am always optimistic and I am always in favour of changing the situation for the better. But that those gentlemen who have failed and you who have succeeded, do not say that, because only people who are unblemished and people who are completely impatient could believe such a record. You have, after all, done so much in this Chamber that people don't believe you. I was told by a journalist from Rhodes yesterday: “Are you afraid of polarization coming?” I replied: 'No, in the Central Association, we are not afraid, because since both SYRIZA and Tsipras have proved to be useless, it would be even more prosperous for the people to return to the useless. We are not afraid of any promises they give, because they are no longer believed.' As much as the parrots are practicing bipolarism again from here and there, the experiences and injuries of society to believe you are fresh. You want to bring the simple analogue and municipal elections. Simple analogue around the world is one Sunday, it's not two. Second Sunday, do you know what it's all about? To take the lead in the five mayors, if they put in every municipality, the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, and fight on the second Sunday among you, by hanging on all the others. No, gentlemen, one Sunday. The Centro Association will not vote for a simple analogue, even though we are in favour of a mere analogy, if you do not make it a Sunday. All over the world, simple analogue is a one Sunday system, not two Sundays. Because the two capitals participate in the second Sunday. What's he doing? So again. The JRC, the Centro Association - all the parties, after the first two - will be forced to abstain or choose by force one of the two primates. No, gentlemen, think about it again. The Centroon Union, when the vote was taken on the simple analogues vote, voted on it. But now Mr. Skourletis' tricks don't agree with me. So rather, why was I next to Mr. Skourletis at a CEDEFOP conference and I say to him 'what do you want it for the second Sunday?' And he said to me, "You are right, one Sunday is the simple analogue." So, what's he doing now? Balls or he refuses to tell me? Does Mr. Skourletis deny that he told me that one Sunday is just proportional? What's he doing? Traditions with the district and mayors? It's over and out. Balls on such serious issues must not be made. If you believe in just proportionally, do it. You don't believe? Abandon it. In the break-up of the regions you are battling with the New Democracy, which says that if you give the vote to the expatriates, it will vote for that break-up of the regions. I do not understand what will benefit and what will benefit the regions. Will it benefit the fight against corruption? What's it gonna do? It is a large region, in which all parties in Athens - because the Attica Prefecture - are not a large region - are putting certain figures in order to compete with each other. Leave the money. With the money, is the game in 2nd Athens? You know that with the channels it's done. Besides, the channels, who's calling? Five SYRIZA MPs and five New Democracy MPs. Members are now coming out on something which is'second' and I am learning from that point of view from the Members. Five people come out of New Democracy and five of SYRIZA. So much for the democracy we have! Please! What's this? So, with the cutting of the regions, who wins? Will the poor too be able to fight? So in the rest of the regions, where four seats are, ten, is there a fair fight? Can't you come see it there? Excuse me, if the district of 2nd Athens breaks into three and becomes like Patras, Larissa, will there be a fair fight between the parties? Do you know what's going on there? Mr Tsipras himself said 'you are right' at our first meeting of the Commission. Now why is he haggling? It's just, what do I understand? That Tsipras thinks by haggling and throwing permission, he'll catch up. He fights to divide the PASOK, fights to put the New Democracy in a difficult position. I believe that a political man is going well when he has his views and the courage to defend these views and not when he is haggling from anyone. Politicians who were involved did not haggle with the other wings. They simply defended their own position with boldness. Mr. Tsipras won't win anything. A concept has been created here. The concept of 'democracy' and the other concept of'spare'. Those who are patriots, usually, are not democrats at all. In other words, the extreme right-wing patriots have a little sense and love for democracy. On the other hand, those who act as democrats are ignoring the country. They think it's the case of the extreme right. These are mistakes. Know that all the great leaders of the Centre, George Mavros, Plastiras, George Papandreou, combined both and this is the value of the central space: and flaming love at home and deep faith in democracy. It's two things that, to fit in you, you have to be with DNA democratic. It is not meant to be called a democrat when there is not much love, a burning love for the homeland. They are concepts that do not conflict with each other rather than with those who have a poor spirit. I'll say a couple of words about the scorpion, and I'll say them very sadly. All SYRIZA MPs, who come out on the canals explaining why they granted it all, say that Karamanlis had granted it in '77, had granted it and Dora with the other Karamanlis, Kostas, in 2008, and they explain their own behaviour in this way. They are based, in other words, on the prerogatives and ambiguity of others to explain their own moderation. Is that what you think is good, that it's nice? What do political men who stand up to? If they believe that they benefit a people with this agreement they make, they come down to the people, they convince them with arguments, they referendum, and then they are all the people with you. You had a solution for the people to be with you, but you knew that you signed an agreement with which the people could not agree and you are trying, saying that they are far-right, to blame the vast crowd of the world that disagrees. I received a letter from the National General Confederation of Disabled People and Victims of War, which is against the Prespecies Agreement and calls on the President of the Republic, Prime Minister and all parties not to proceed with the agreement. Are they far-right? They conclude: “Having given our blood and our lives for our homeland, we declare in every direction that we will not tolerate the concession of our history to anyone.” I present it for the Minutes, gentlemen, although you received all the parties, because you made the slip of the right always call the dissident and the permanent argument is that Karamanlis had signed it in '08, the old Karamanlis signed it in '77 and that's enough. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Prime Ministers are coming out why? To supplement the subsidization of the former or to resurrect and save betrayal and subsidization? Tell me why the Prime Ministers are coming out. Imagine tomorrow another Prime Minister going out in this Chamber, giving Turkey the relevant things and saying 'they had been given to others' and considering that this is an adequate explanation. PASOK made a proposal not to cut pensions on December 31, 2018. That's a good suggestion, but it's made by a party that cut the pensions thirteen times. Understand? It's like he's coming and campaigning against drugs, someone who was a dealer. That's how I see it. After we cut pensions thirteen times, we call on the House not to cut them again. I think obviously no one wants to cut pensions. Is there a MP who wants it? The question is whether the country may not cut pensions without risk. That's the problem. Mr Moskovis said yesterday that on 15 October we will assess whether, in compliance with the objectives, there is something that leaves the votes. He said so clearly. But the PASOK came today - posing as Mrs Gennimata's kindness - and told us to decide on us and ignore both Moscovisi and all unilaterally. The monologues have brought us to be unreliable. And for the boynama you gave last year, you didn't ask anyone and then you were looking for a go-to-go apology. There are two categories of citizens, the micronomists and the people of the wider society who have lost over 50% to 60% of their income. I have asked the Prime Minister on several occasions and in close contact with the micronomists to undertake, in the form of non-paying taxes - and prove to those who lost some money with the PSI - not to pay tax and to some extent to balance the losses. The Prime Minister's not answering. On the matter of VAT on the islands only by the collar hadn't caught him. In areas that were 80% lower tourism you had voted in two days for VAT to rise. That is what you voted on. In the end, you thought it was a success. What was a success? The fact that the Europeans alone said: 'Find children'? But when did they give it? When we agreed to become a storeroom of souls, to get their refugee back. Why don't you think that equivalence of taking and giving refugees will not be at the expense of Greece. Wait a minute and you'll see what Mr. Tsipras has done. Let's see the numbers in two or three months, and you'll see how many will come and how many will leave. Then you'll understand that VAT on the islands how much we paid him. In order to return to the skeptic, therefore, there is evidence that all parties and the first, the New Democracy, had declared a complex name. It's bad to hide. The most brave thing would be to say in the New Democracy: 'We were wrong, we followed a political mistake, but, seeing the storm of society, we are adapting our policy and we are going all over the world to say that we are not giving the word 'Macedonia'. Instead of having this bravery, he hides: "He had not signed Karamanlis", "he had not done one." Since you posted this composite name on the Foreign Ministry's website. How'd you not sign it, gentlemen? Is the political courage missing again? Let us say: "We made a mistaken assessment, we did not believe that the people would have universal resistance, but by seeing this people, who woke up in it, we did back and go with SYRIZA, along with the Centroon Union, together with all in Europe, in America." I also dipped the American ambassador yesterday and said to him: 'I want you in my office next week'. Why did I dive him? Because last time I had a fight, because I had told him: If a New York was founded next to yours, would you agree to recognize it? It says to me: 'You are right'. But if I'm right about that, why are you with Skopje? That's the Skopje issue. The United States, which is supposed to be a strong country, a country that follows justice, which defends the legal order, defends a state that knows that within it is boiling down. It reassurs Greece to sign now, to consent to everything, and after the wilderness beast returns. Why do the Americans give a guarantee? None. You know, I once accused Old Karamanlis of getting us out of NATO, because when he asked for the support of the Americans to be prevented from the Turkish breakthrough in Cyprus, instead of the Americans supporting us, they sent Sisko their Minister in Pentagon and went back to GES, GEN and GAA and said: "To God, don't answer the challenges." We must accept that they should get off the Cypriot territory. Listen to the Americans' neutrality. Instead of preventing two allies from the war situation, they sent Minister to Pentagon into a broken-up punitive regime to tell them: "To God, don't react, because you'll be in trouble in a long-lasting war." That's what dirty Sisko did. That's what he did. And now some of your people are on the canals and say: 'Come on, it's a small state, it's not an army.' I heard one of SYRIZA's words yesterday: 'Is it, with a hundred people, threatening Greece?' The Skopje of course not today. But tomorrow? And do you think that there will be a spectator if he sees that he can cause a problem in Greece? Do you know what responsibilities you take with the Ambassadors' agreement? You're aware of your responsibilities if things come as I'm saying, you'll be hiding. Now you have police officers and you're on the streets. Maybe that's not enough for thousands of policemen to protect you. You should know that. I sent a letter to Mr Mitsotakis and said to him: 'He made it clear that the New Democracy will not give the word 'Macedonia'. He didn't answer. Instead of answering me clearly, he did something else. He went to an interview with Mrs Kosonias and said: 'If Parliament votes, what to do, the margins are narrow'. So the New Democracy, which is why we want to take it out to the government to tell us that it does not have the scope to correct this crime? Is that why you're going down to the election? To declare incompetence? Is that what we expect from New Democracy? It's very convenient for Tsipras to do the dirty work and find her ready. It's very convenient, gentlemen. I have heard from abroad that an agreement is being prepared with Albania and the worst it is coming is an agreement with Turkey. I want to see the agreement with Turkey in particular. Albania will also be truly awkward to see the agreement, but also with Turkey, because you will start again: "The right-wings had done it, the right-wings had made the grey zones and they did not defend the Imias, the PASOK with Simitis took down the flag." What is SYRIZA doing permanently is that the others before betraying, what should we do? We're doing everything we can. And it appears that it is a modern European state, Greece today, because it is subject to foreigners. Tell me Mr. Tsipras at a point that resisted Europe or America. You are three years in government, tell me one thing you have opposed. One thing serious. In all, you said 'yes'. You expropriate the Left, you humiliate the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u105	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u106	Is it time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u107	Now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u108	I want to say two words about my friend, Mr. Kammenos, who says that Mr. Tsipras is the best Prime Minister. But the best Prime Minister went and signed with Kotzia, which he does not like. This is the first time the best Prime Ministers have signed allegiance papers. I don't understand him. He has to make his decision, because the government will once leave. And he must have the power to go out on the street, meet the world. Saying this, he's gonna have a weakness of getting out of his house. I think so. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] When he says he's the best Prime Minister, but it's a bad deal, and when he comes in, he's gonna throw the government down and stuff like that, they don't honor politics. These look like actions that I don't want to call. I would therefore ask Mr Kammenos to realise that, apart from being in Parliament, in politics, we are also citizens of this country and we must have egoism, a dignity! And what's the solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u109	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u110	Let go, you. Mr. Papadopoulos, when you remember you were once in the House, then you will say that one was telling the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u111	Mr. Leventis, don't waste your time on answers, because you've exceeded every limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u112	I want to say one last thing: what is the solution to the scorpion? There's a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u113	Today we are talking about the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u114	All parties following the popular resistance, the Catholic, to hold a meeting under the President of the Republic, to decide that this agreement is invalid and the Prime Minister in error signed it with Kotzia, to declare that the new agreement will be made on a zero basis, based on the not giving the term "Macedonia" and giving other forms of exchange. And if gentlemen don't accept it, that's proof that they have dirty and perishable moods.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u115	At this point I shall call on Mr Drasakis, the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Economy and Development at Step. Mr. Drasakis, you have ten minutes for your prototype and ten minutes for your denology. Will you unify them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u116	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u117	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u118	Mr. Leventis, you're fishing in blurred waters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u119	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u120	Fishing in blurred waters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u121	You in clean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u122	Sit down, please. But in blurred waters there are only black snakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u123	They'll eat you! The snakes will eat you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u124	But you're not the only one. The people you are referring to here protested - and protested - with the slogan: 'Patients, traitors of politicians'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u125	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u126	You don't even listen... The protesters, whom you call here and Mr. Mitsotakis, protest with the slogan and line: 'Allites, traitors of politicians'. And he doesn't write underneath with an asterisk that Mr. Leventis is excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u127	I thought you were serious! I'm leaving because I thought you were serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u128	Nor does it say that Mr. Mitsotakis is excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u129	I can't follow your delirium.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u130	I hope you don't have a conscience about what you're leading to with what you're saying. And you are also an honor to this government? Read the government's schedule statements. What did the government say when it called for a vote of confidence after the January elections and which, of course, also apply? "It is also important..." - had the Prime Minister said - "the finding in talks under the United Nations Organisation of a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute over the name with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of a complex name geographically defined for all uses". Don't you know those who go up here and say all these silly things? Everyone's right to have any view he wants. Do you request this government because it implements the policy for which it has taken a vote of confidence from the House? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We do not blame for the far right or for the fascist whoever has a different view. We are accused of being a right-wing, hypocritical, fascist, the one who is raping national interests, the one who in the name of the country leads the country to disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u131	You're talking about Kammen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u132	Those who caused the crisis and the disaster in Cyprus were not international leftists. For patriots, they passed themselves. Those who caused the Asia Minor Destruction didn't do it in the name of a Left. In the name of patriotism, they did it. So there's history in this country. And we know exactly from history that often the rapture of the country hides too much dangerous situations. Those who speak of language and for name have not read Article 7 of the Treaty? When Article 7 says that our language of our neighbours belongs to a Slavic sex, in a Slavic dialect, do they mean that the Greek language is Slavic? When Article 7 says that the history and culture of our neighbours have nothing to do with Greek history, does this mean that we deliver our history? How far do you think these lies will arrive? It's just ignorance. Only fanaticism rewards. Is this a line for Greece to move to the 21st century? Is this a enclosed, fearful country, when we can take advantage of the opportunity we have - geopolitics - and play a leading role in the Balkans, to create growth, peace, cooperation and jobs for the world, above all for the world of northern Greece? I have no doubt that these lies have short feet and therefore the people will draw their conclusions. And he's already taking it off. Of course, that was a diversion from the main issue we had today, no matter what that was. Because what I wanted to say and I will try to say is that the exit from the memoranda is an opportunity for the country. And this opportunity is not about the SYRIZA party or our left-wing party, or SYRIZA - ANEL government. This is an opportunity that concerns the country as a whole; it concerns society and the Greek people as a whole. What we should be discussing here today is how we can take advantage of this opportunity, how we can make use of this 'light', as we have said beforehand, and how we can make use of it. How are we going to use these fifteen years, in which the debt has been fully controlled, to rebuild the country and to form such a state, an economy where we never have to discuss debt again, to discuss aid, programmes, etc. This is the issue not of the day, but I believe in the broader historical phase we are entering. We are therefore creating conditions for a better future for everyone. And exactly the value of this government is that it creates a good audience, a good public, a good for all. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis, with his proposal from the outset, has guided the debate to what we have heard here: he has been orientating the debate on something that some people call'miserabism'. And anyone who doesn't understand that word can hear Mr. Mitsotakis' speech. This is miserabism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Chief of Officer Response spoke of an unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. He said that "yes, the Memorandum is over, but this memorandum was unnecessarily inappropriate". Why was it unnecessary? Was the previous memorial finished? The second memorial was it over? The fifth evaluation was over? Were we on a dose? Was it disbursed from the European elections then? Mr Mitsotakis told us something amazing: "If we stayed, it would be over." But tell us what you did while you were in the government. Tell us what you did as a government and don't tell us what you'd do if you lived. If you stay, you may have made another five memos. What's the evidence, the presumption, that if I stay, I would do what I didn't do as a government? It is therefore important for the citizens who are interested in reality - and I believe that it is the many - to remind you here that what we received was a country in a deadlock, a society in a collapse, a state in a meteor. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The second memorandum was not completed. The state owed and had to be paid from 2015 to 2019 EUR eighty billion - 30 billion for interest and 50 billion for bankruptcies - and there was no financing agreement. The program had expired and received an artificial extension until February 27, 2015. Did you forget that? Did you forget the trap you set up - supposedly - to SYRIZA, but was it a trap for the country? Did you forget that they had planned something that predicted that on 1 March we had to go bankrupt because the agreement expired because there was no funding, but the obligations were running? The first, then, was that there was no comprehensive memorandum. Secondly, there were huge obligations, without a loan agreement, which we can cover. Thirdly, as soon as we took over, there were costs to be incurred by the State, without cash being available. On February 20, 2015, there were in the state fund less than EUR 425 million! We could not pay wages and pensions if we did not sign the agreement on 20 February. That was the legacy, that's what you delivered us and you have the nerve to talk about the cost of 2015. That was the bill, that was the cause of the cost. You have set up an extortion - I repeat - to prevent the rise of SYRIZA and then lead to early destruction of the conflict. And all this was a huge disaster. I will submit an official document from the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as publications of the period, before the 2015-December 2014 elections, entitled "Secret meeting at the Bank of Greece on cash assets", because the deadlock had emerged since then. So, you're telling us that it was an inappropriate memorial? What were we supposed to do? Let the country go bankrupt? We signed a memorandum under the conditions that we signed and finished this memorandum. You signed two memorandums and you didn't finish anyone. And there's no guarantee where this country would have come up with the conditions that had been created then, if you'd stayed in the government. What have we achieved these three years? Of course, - the Prime Minister said so - the moments we are going through are moments with a historical weight. They demand grandheart, they demand political courage, which does not exist. If there were, however, it would be acknowledged that we are living at the end of this nightmare period for the country, that we are putting an end to the memorials. And that is important for two reasons. Firstly, because it was not obvious that we would be ending the memorials. There are historical periods of our country - because, unfortunately, it is not the first bankruptcy - where for decades Greece has been excluded from the markets. So that we now come out of the memoranda in a way and conditions to get out of the market, is indeed a fact of historical importance. As long as we make good use of it. And the second reason is - as I have already said - that dating out of the memoranda is a national opportunity. It's a positive, favourable possibility. We have problems - I will talk about these - but we also have conditions to deal with these problems as a state, as a society, as businesses, as workers, as households, with some horizon ahead of us, with some visibility in the future. We have also made the debt viable in all respects. Of course, there was no debt haircut. However, there can be no ‘haircut’ of only one country's debt, because after the PSI the debtors are also lenders. We owe Italy, which it owes. We owe France, which also has a debt. We owe Portugal. That is why our position remains timely that a radical solution, in other words, with debt cuts, can only be a pan-European solution. We have, however, achieved a functional solution which allows us to move forward. Third, we got a safe exit. We are shielding the country even against exceptional, unforeseen and exogenous situations. Two figures I will tell you: the country's obligations until 2022 are 58 billion euros. I have to tell you that we have more than EUR 58 billion, because beyond the EUR 24.1 billion - the stock we have - and the revenue from the surpluses we will achieve and the 4.8 billion we receive. So we've actually been meeting our needs for four years. So what we can get out of the markets will allow us to make a debt rescheduling, expensive debt, IMF or another, which we will be able to repay. So we have a safe exit from the memos and any exit from the memos. I will not comment here on what would happen if we were to do what some have proposed, to start new discussions with the German and others' parliaments to make a preventive line. Fourthly, we have created the conditions for permanent relief from now on. It is the so-called 'financial space' that is created beyond the surpluses. It is 700 million in 2019 and 1,200,000 in 2020. Could be a little over, just down or much up. We'll see. However, we have the possibility of permanent changes in policy, both in taxation and in social expenditure. Fifth, we put the economy on a recovery orbit, steady recovery, sustainable and medium-term, at least, horizon over a small bubble that was attempting to create in 2014. We have a reversal of trends in employment. Instead of increasing unemployment, that is, we have a fall in unemployment. In the social state too, instead of reducing expenditure, we have started to have small - even - increases. Sixthly, we solve unfinished past such as "Macedonian" and as is our relationship with Albania. We will try to resolve as much as we can, in terms of national interest, all the loose ends, so that - as I said at the outset - we can create conditions of greater stability and peace in the region, greater cooperation and co-development in our region. It is inconceivable if anyone is serious about looking at the map, talking about Greece's development outside of a wider Balkan development. Our ports, our trains, our infrastructures, everything will gain value in so far as they operate as infrastructures for the Balkans and for the whole of Europe, I would say, in terms of a national development plan, which we currently have. Finally, we have created the conditions for SYRIZA - this strange left party - to become a key point in our political life from now on, a guarantor of democracy, a guarantor of the fight for progressive changes, which should continue. And it is an example of a left party that wants to govern without being integrated into the system for the whole of Europe. This is also an achievement not only for the Left but also for our society. Have all the problems solved? Apparently, no. The exit from the memorials - we have told before - gives us more freedom on the one hand, but on the other hand it also creates greater responsibilities. At least, we, as a government, understand that. And it creates us more responsibilities precisely because now not only do we have to design the future, etc., but also because we need to measure ourselves with deeper causes and passions of the Greek system, I would say with the identities of Greek capitalism, because the public deficit and the deficit in the balance of payments are imminent. Behind these deficits there are the most profound causes: the fragmentation of development, the inequality of development, the quality of our country's entrepreneurship, the absence of policies in a number of areas. These are the deepest problems. I always hear talk - even we say it - about bureaucracy. Behind bureaucracy, there are political deficits. If a country has no land register, if a country does not have forest maps, if a country has not carved the cavalry, if a country does not have receptors to enter business, parks, etc., if it does not have organised development preconditions, then we say that we are generally responsible for bureaucracy? The governments are, first of all, to blame for not doing this. So in the phase we're in, we've got two big groups of troubles. Firstly, they are the legacy of the past and, secondly, they are the challenges of the future. It is the legacy of the crisis, but it is also the fourth industrial revolution, it is also climate change and global liquidity in which we must design our future. Two words about them. First of all, unemployment. It was reduced by 27%, which was 20%, and this is a great success, because it was done in conditions of relative stagnation. However, 20% unemployment or 35% unemployment in young people is a huge size. We have succeeded in reducing poverty by two points and we have managed to reduce disparities by three points by the Gini index. And this is an important achievement. We are the only country in Europe that has this performance. But can we only be satisfied with it when poverty is still there when there are excluded ones? And we have around us people or social groups, who are indebted, without income serving their debts. We have businessmen without business because they've closed down. We have graduates without recognition of their degrees. We have pensioners without income. So we have a number of problems, under the heading 'inherited by the crisis, legacy of the past', which we now have to take a step - step one - to deal with. Secondly, it is the more general problems which need to be addressed with a wide-ranging plan for a new Greece of 2030, but we are entering this phase with weapons. We have created positive conditions that we can use, as I said, sustainable debt, the stock of security that we have and many more. We have a development strategy. For the first time this country has become a development strategy. We've got a plan, we've made choices. We cannot grow as a low-cost country, we will grow as a country with a knowledge economy, investing in innovation, research, extroversion, etc. We've earned credibility and that's what's seen. So we are entering this new phase, as I said at the outset, having created positive conditions, which if we make use of them - and that is the political responsibility that we and all the parties have - then we can achieve positive results for the Greek people. Mr. Mitsotakis, we heard him. He spoke for 50 minutes. He said several times a liar to the Prime Minister. In addition to this, we have heard neither a vision nor a plan, nor have we heard proposals for the future. And that's no accident. Mr. Mitsotakis has invested in failure and failed. He invested that this government would fail, that the first assessment would fail, the second evaluation, the third evaluation, we would not come out of the memorials, and now that we're out, he doesn't believe it. 'Memorandums', he says, 'we will have eternity'. They failed everything they tried, disguised what they said. I will, however, close with a brief reference to something that I would like to make as a conclusion, and that is the following: every major crisis has been shown to highlight some historical trends. The great crisis of 1929 earlier gave birth to a progressive current and a reactionary fascist. The progressive current was expressed with Roosevelt in America, with left-wing governments in Europe and elsewhere, and the reactionary was expressed by fascism, authoritarianism, war, racism. I feel that, today, if we look at the world and Europe in particular, we will find the phenomena worrying, that we have new phenomena from this crisis today, of course. On the one hand, we have phenomena that cause concern with authoritarianism, nationalism, closure, racism, but on the other hand, we also have trends that show that the progressive current today manifests itself with new forms in England, America, Greece. So SYRIZA is - let some decisions now finally - the new one that came out of this crisis. It is the new political force of the Left that has emerged and that is why we are seeing, despite the problems, despite the unprecedented difficulties, that SYRIZA and the government that supports them have the initiative of moves. So we have a plan, we have a strategy, we have proposals, we have a story on our side, and that's why we're finally going to win.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u133	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor. Minister, will we incorporate your vocabulary time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u135	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u136	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Staff Responsibility has made a speech, which I am sure is considered to be consensual, mild and non-separatist. He said the words "speaking" and "speaking" twenty-five times. He talked about "unreliable", "unbelievers", another twenty times. Forty-four times in total, almost once a minute. What he did not, was that he did not once mention the word 'debt'. In other words, it is as if he did not know that on 21 June the debt was on the Eurogroup's agenda. I mean, that debt has been discussed. Everyone knows it was the main issue and he didn't have a single word to say about the debt. How do we judge this deal? On what criteria? When do we put them? I can be clear about that. We must set the criteria before the event happens and have clear criteria for success or failure to succeed. I have been telling you what our criteria are since 2017. Since 2017, not after, to be able to say that I have succeeded, to say what criteria it was and, therefore, it was a success. Since 2017, then, I have said two things. One, which was in a debate that you will have attended several times with Mr Venizelos, was what FINANCIAL TIMES will write next day. Because in our debate with Mr Venizelos, whether it was good or not, the PSI has always said that if it were a good deal, the markets would have embraced it next day and the FINANCIAL TIMES would have said it was a good deal. And that is not what FINANCIAL TIMES said. The "FINANCIAL TIMES" then said that the "Europeans kicked the Greek debt tent below, did not take the serious decisions". Here are the articles of the "FINANCIAL TIMES", which say that "the debt relief for Greece gives hope after years of austerity". And it is not just the ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’. The whole economic press said that there was this debt relief. The second criterion, which I have set out since 2017, is whether we will have a clear corridor for investors. I'm sure you've all heard me say that. Are we going to have a clear runway for the debt? That was the main question. With the measures we have all taken, they say, but at least in the medium term - only Mrs Genders - I have heard the opposite say - we have this net corridor for at least fifteen years by extending the EFSF's maturitys, by pushing behind interest rates, with the possibility of changing an expensive and short-term debt with a long-term and cheap debt. These things say we can get out on the market and have a runway ten to fifteen years. It's what we asked for, which I'm not putting now, I put it last year, and we have that. It is the ECB, the IMF, that is to say the markets, the rating houses, the Member States. So we have this corridor for 15 years, which, of course, we have to take advantage of - because it is not certain if we do not fight, we have growth and seriousness - but we have it. In the medium term, what happens in the long term? That's right, someone said - Mrs. Gennamas, I think - we didn't get the French mechanism. It was a cost that we didn't get the French mechanism. We didn't get all we wanted for the long term. But we made a promise, which is different from the 2012 promise. The promise we made is that we will re-check the debt in 2032 after 15 years but scientifically. We will not look at how the finance ministers in the Eurogroup feel then, but we will take the decision on the basis of the debt sustainability analysis. The debt must not be more than 20% of GDP. So it's already outdated that the decision will be made. It is not a question of prudence if Europeans want to help poor Greece. It is a concrete proposal and commitment, so that we can get out on the markets in the long term. But no one disputes that we have the clear runway. So we set the criteria beforehand and won them for 2021. How different from 2014? You know, New Democracy said what SYRIZA took after 21 June was on the table since 2014. Indeed, he said so, the leading guide of the New Democracy - I don't mean you, Mr. Voridis, because I know that you want this - who, as far as I'm concerned, considers that the greatest moment of the Greek civilization after World War II was the third resolution of 1946. Again, I apologise to the New Democracy, if you have forgotten, in addition to Gregory Lambrakis, and the Third Resolution, and what this meant to the Greek people. He said he was at the table. So I said to do our self-criticism, because we didn't get it, as the Opposition says, since it was on the table. So it's our fault. I then called a group of Syrians to discuss and be self-sufficient, because we didn't get it. However, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy because I do not see ladies and gentlemen - you have given them permission - unfortunately not all the SYRIZA Members have the goodwill I have. So when I talked about self-criticism and demanded it, the first thing I did was to give me this text. It is the 2014 IMF text, which both Mr Stavros and Mr Mitsotakis have submitted to Parliament, which says that the debt is sustainable. And then they moved the document in our faces. Can I ask you a question? Since debt was sustainable, why would they give us something? And how was debt sustainable? It was sustainable because they were committed to very high growth and very high primary surpluses. So what happened in 2014? The IMF to save the batch is forced to say the debt is viable, otherwise it cannot be on schedule. So it forces the Greek Government to commit to high growth and far more surpluses than what we agreed and then say that nothing needs to be done. So where did the 2012 promise go that they would give something for the debt if necessary? Nowhere, because it wasn't necessary. Because the text I will testify and you have tabled, says that the debt was sustainable and since it was sustainable, you do not need anything else. And another syrizanos gave me his medium-term Mr. Stakoura, who made the same promises. You're a little more generous, Mr. Stavura. You are giving higher growth rates. So in 2014 the situation was very simple. We didn't get anything for the debt. We couldn't get anything for the debt, since it was viable. And, of course, we didn't have a pillow, we didn't have a buffet. You had gone out once and for all on the markets, you had EUR 4.5 billion and you did not ask for buffer. You could not go out on the markets with the EUR 4.5 billion pillow. That is why you are now saying that you have asked for a preventive support line, which for some reason is not a third memorandum. I don't understand why the superstitious line is, do I? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You couldn't go out on your own. Everyone knows that. So the third memorial was there for you with certainty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u137	Because you didn't exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u138	You say we have a third and a fourth, Mr Mitsotakis. Listen to the argument. Funny without listening to the argument, it's not funny. Answer the argument. Let's go down. How does New Democracy come and solve all the problems? Because he didn't say anything about that, Mr. Mitsotakis. In front, however, it says that we will have a basic reduction in taxes and we will have no problem with pensions, we will have no problem with the social state and everything will be fine. How are they going to be all right? Because we're going to have growth. Why do we have growth? Because we have a good relationship with the private sector. Well, don't overreact. You have a good relationship with certain interests. I think this is different from the good relationship with the private sector. Another one, and by magic, everything is solved. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There's an old play in which some defense lawyers to support an innocent man find a magic potion that makes the witnesses, when they arrive in court, to speak in favor of the defendant. We're luckier with Mr. Mitsotakis. We don't even have to give him the magic potion. He can speak for us without the magic potion. [[Laughing - applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because he filed this chart as a category witness. And this chart what exactly does it show? It shows that we reached the bottom in 2011 with -9% growth. Then it went -7%. Then it went -3%. And we had a year of 0.8%. I shall testify to that, too, as a witness of defence. Thank you very much. After five years, you brought one year with 0.8% growth. I'll testify to that, too. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u139	Read it better. We uploaded it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u140	Why are you shouting, Mr. Bourra? We are talking about the same texts. They are the same texts. It's very good. We agree on the facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u141	Please don't interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u142	Let's go down. The big difference between SYRIZA - ANEL and New Democracy is that we are building our policy on real economic trends. These tendencies have been made by Mr Drasakis. He said how growth returns and how unemployment is reduced. I don't keep telling you the same facts. I always promise to tell you information I hadn't told you in the previous speech. So I'm going to tell you a new item from the previous speech from MARKIT that came out on Monday, which says about industry and exports. Because what was the record so far in the New Democracy? That all Europe is going forward and we cannot follow. What does Andrew Harker say, where is the Deputy Director of IHS MARKIT? It says: "Although growth rates have weakened in many eurozone countries over the last few months, the manufacturing sector in Greece has shown that it is capable of maintaining a stable growth rate during the second quarter. The development of June was particularly pleasing and accelerating of new export orders. There goes what you were talking about. Europe ahead. Greece follows. There goes that account. But it's not just growth. Mr Drasakis, the Vice-President, said how much we have reduced poverty. To add only to what you said, Mr Drasakis, how much we have reduced poverty in children in a sensitive position. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But that's not enough either. Do you know why it's not enough? Because the evidence I have and Mr Drasakis give - Mr Theocharopoulos 'has drawn the ear' to Mr Moskovis that poverty and child poverty are increasing, while the evidence shows exactly the opposite - they are elements of 2016. So it's before 2017 where the CRL was. That is, imagine that after so many units had been reduced in 2016, which will now be with the CRL. So we don't just have growth, but development that reduces poverty, reduces social exclusion, reduces child poverty. We are now going to the development strategy. Mr Theodorakis told us three four things that need to be done for our development strategy. He said justice was too slow. He also said that great story about the son who became a lawyer and finally judged the trial. He told us about the investment environment. He already told us about the public sector. But these are the three tops of our strategic plan. That is, the holistic plan that we have put forward takes these three objectives and says - because anyone with many priorities has no priority - precisely that reforms in the public sector, in justice and in the investment climate will continue through investment authorisation. But can we talk a little about this particular practicer? You are telling us that we have a new fourth memorandum programme. Have you read what the commitments are? Firstly, tell us which of these commitments were not in the third programme and, secondly, tell us in particular: Do you want the Secretary-General to come out with an open procedure as promised by the Heads of State or as you personally did, Mr Mitsotakis, before you leave, that you have put all the directors in order to get us stuck? Isn't that what you did? Did you do anything else? Before you left, you put all the managers on your own order. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you want to or don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u143	You don't even know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u144	Didn't you change the managers? Haven't you changed anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u145	Stay in what you somehow know. The other ones, let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u146	You haven't changed? You're kidding, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u147	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u148	Do you want or do you want to complete the energy stock exchange? Understand what your position is. You tell us these are unacceptable commitments, they are so and we agree with them. To know what your objections are to the completion of the third programme, what remains. I'm not talking about privatisation. I'm talking about the other structures. We don't understand anything. One difference is that in our own commitments that we have put into the programme, there are also social ones. There is an increase in the minimum wage, and there is a return to collective agreements. There are just these things that give us confidence that we can have a growth that is more fair. Ladies and gentlemen, in one year's time we have European elections. As Mr Drasakis said, without understanding, I would like to end in a similar way. I see that there will be at least three separate lines throughout Europe, for which we all have to take a position. The first is for immigration. I remind you of Spilberg's work "Sydler's list". You remember it's a black and white work and suddenly somewhere in the middle we see a little girl with a red coat. Why? Because the poet wants to say in our feelings that if only we could save this child, not the mass, something would happen. We know it wouldn't be important for a child. But what if we could? We in immigration don't see hordes of immigrants. We see Hassan, we see Fatima, who have their history, their feelings, their love for their family, who believe in values like us, who, if you beat them, hurt them, if you scratch them, they bleed. That is why we want a supranational solution. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're telling us, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're not with Orban. I must tell you that 'you did not make his facey meat' today. He would have been very pleased with the speech you made even more with your former Chief - I do not obviously mean Mr Meimarakis - who said he would take us to the special courts, because we had an open borders. That is why you say that you will enter the European elections and you will have a progressive say for immigrants? Can we talk about this seriously? Second, nationalism or non-nationalism? Internationalism or the national state? We in the "Macedonian" have the impression that there might be a co-development of the Balkans. Does this help with supranational solutions? In the euro area we are promoting deposit guarantees at European level, promoting Europe's financial capacity to help regions, trying everywhere to be part of a European solution. Can you tell us what your position is? Can you tell us if your position on the "Macedonian" helps? Does it help to reconcile peoples? Is that really what you think? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Aren't you telling me, besides you've forgotten Lambrakis and besides having forgotten the third resolution, do you forget what happened in the 1930s, when we let nationalism get away? Are you happy with the danger that there is? Do you know how to deal with this danger? What exactly are you going to do, so that we can build a Europe that will always go to the band of nationalism? And there is a third contradiction. What growth will we have? Will it have social character? Will regional disparities be reduced? Will it be able to reduce profit as a percentage of GDP? Will wages be able to go at least with productivity, which throughout Europe and America is far behind productivity? Do we understand that behind nationalism, racism, fear, is that the world of work and the middle layers feel this threat? With what policies do you want, as far as this division is concerned, to enter the debate that will take place in Europe in the European elections? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Koutsoubas, Secretary-General of the JRC, said the contradictions to the capitalist system are increasing, and it does not exclude future crisis and future war. He's absolutely right, except in these contradictions you have to intervene, you have to have a strategy, you have to avoid the worst evil. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You can't sit down and say as an analyst we're afraid nationalism can come. Everything we've achieved by the MPs of ANEL and SYRIZA, we've done it together. I'm telling you not to be afraid. I tell you in the summer, during the holidays that are coming, to turn the regions and explain to the world what is at stake next year. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Explain that you have nothing to fear except fear. Explain we can go forward. Explain that we can change Europe as we have always said. And explain that we can all do this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I understand - and I think I understand correctly - today's debate will be closed with the secondaryities of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff and the possible trilogy of the Prime Minister. The other political leaders have said they will not use dentistry. There is an pending one that will be resolved during the debate. The debate will be closed with the two Heads of State or Government. Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis has asked for a debate on the economy to be held before the day. I told him it's a welcome, that it's a real gift. Today, however, it turned out that Mr Mitsotakis alone for the economy did not come to this Chamber to speak. We understand him because he obviously does not feel that it is a privileged field for him and his party to discuss the economy. For that very reason, he has chosen - it is true with very irritation - to serve in a vulnerability bed in a hybrid. I have to say: we really are not in that psychology that we get all the cash, Mr Mitsotakis. You said a hundred times a liar, liars. And once you say it, it's enough. There is no need to repeat it forty times. It's a sign of your embarrassment and irritation. And you know, sometimes this embarrassment and irritation causes the speaker to move to the edge of graphics and have his word and a dose of comicality, especially when it is faded out of these handfuls of tone of voice. I would also say that many times this makes the speaker not just a distance from the one watching him, but the one watching him feel and compassion. The main thing, though, is that in this sixty-minute cressado, you only found ten minutes to talk about the economy. Just ten minutes! In all ten minutes, however, you have honoured your personal parliamentary tradition and made it possible to reveal a number of shortcomings in the economic sector as well. I'll go to these shortcomings next. But I would like to start with a terrible omission. You know, the crucial issue that the Eurogroup was discussing on 21 June - one of the three things I explained but the most critical, we waited for it from 2012 onwards - was debt. You didn't say a word about the debt. You didn't even mention that. And obviously you didn't forget. It makes sense. Even you cannot question what the whole world says, all the evaluation houses that are upgrading us, the capital markets, the international analysts, the European Stability Mechanism, and even the International Monetary Fund itself, that is, the Greek debt with the June 21 agreement, has finally become viable and that the markets with a weapon of this agreement are now wide open for the Greek economy, for Greek bonds, for Greece. Indeed, they are well-founded without any extra burden for banks, for insurance funds, for hospitals, for micro-enterprises, to remember further restructurings, the one that took place in 2011 in the case of infamous PSI. Mr Mitsotakis, however, spoke of the surpluses agreed by the Greek Government, 3.5% to 2022 and 2.2% thereafter. He told us how disastrous and how restrictive these surpluses are for the Greek economy. But I would like to point out a few things here. Is there really anyone here - and I include the absent persons, why are the representatives of the PASOK Parliament not here - in this Chamber, which managed the years of the crisis negotiations concerning the progress of the programme and the sustainability of the Greek debt, which would achieve better? If there is one who has achieved something better than these surpluses, raise his hand and explain to us, say "I have succeeded." I don't remember, Mr. Mitsotakis, getting something better. On the contrary, I remember that in your government, you agreed a primary surplus of 4.5% by 2018 and an average of 4% by 2031. Are you questioning that? You can't question it because it's the reality. That is why I would say that it is a sign of courage to come and criticize us for the amount of surpluses. But you have also presented a very interesting diagram - Mr Tsakalots mentioned in this diagram - and indeed he also tabled it in the Minutes, explaining that we should submit it in order to assert our arguments. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I wonder, Mr Mitsotakis, this nice chart you borrowed from the news of "SKAI", which occasionally set charts on the course of the Greek economy inversely? I, Mr Mitsotakis, would like to present the true picture. The real picture is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u151	It's black!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u152	Yes, she's black, because it's the years you've ruled, Mr. Mitsotakis, that's why she's black! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is the years that you have ruled and shrinked the country's GDP by a total of twenty-five points and not your own tricks where you are presenting not the rate of GDP but the rate of GDP change. May I also present to you, of course, a more easily readable picture that is here, Mr Mitsotakis, the fact that in 2009 GDP decreased 4.3%, in 2010 it decreased 5.5%, in 2011 it decreased 9.1%, after 2012 yes we went to 7.3%. We didn't stay at 9.1 percent, thank God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u153	It's -7.3%!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u154	Yeah, - 7.3%. After 2013 we went to 3.2%, we didn't stay at -7.3%. These are the achievements that, in total, if we sum up, we have -25% of Gross Domestic Product.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u155	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u156	So you shrunk the national wealth in 1/4 and you have the courage to come here in this Chamber and present us charts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u157	You forgot 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u158	Yes, in 2014 you had a marginal increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u159	Stop! What are you doing? Is Panell here? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u160	Congratulations! You dragged the public wealth by 25% in 1/4 and managed after five years of sacrifices, cuts, pillaging, to reach 0.8%. Congratulations! Is that what you want me to say? Congratulations! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So let me come, Mr. Mitsotakis, to the next poaching that you have attempted from this step. Here, in fact, I wonder if your financial advisers, those who advise you, do so on purpose in order to harm you or, in any case, have no knowledge of them, whether they are irrelevant or simply cynical and liars. Because you said for the most part, and from this step back on - you have said it again, but we have disproved you, we have given you the information, Mr Tsakalotos has answered you - that the EUR 25 billion financing pillow has arisen from the primary surpluses and from the payment stop to the Greek State -. Lies on lies or mistakes on mistakes. One of the two has to choose. Harvard went for free, or here you have chosen a proper lie. So let me inform you that the financial pillow came from two sources. Of the ESM disbursements deliberately larger than the repayment of the country's loan needs, as well as the test exits we have made on the money markets last year. As for the infamous Greek state payment stop to inform you that, at the moment we are talking, we are in a history of low-end Greek government and in the next few months what is left will be repaid and for the first time will zero off the Greek public debts to private individuals. So find no other argument! That's it, the payoff's rusty! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are, however, going further, because it is more important than Mr Mitsotakis' lies and smuggling, I think he has his political plan for the country. So he told us that he has a negotiating objective to reduce the surpluses, since he will have caused a creative shock in the Greek economy. Interesting words to describe the creepy anti-social program prepared by the New Democracy to the Greek people for the next election campaign! So listen to what shock Mr Mitsotakis is planning, which, fortunately, will remain in the drawers of Piraeus Street and will never be implemented. Creative shock, therefore, is first of all on the way to your fellow Member, Mr Kurtz, who is not far-reaching, from what I have heard here, but is liberal - and it is at 12 o'clock hours of work, the liberation of collective redundancies, the locator out, the retreat, the definitive abolition of collective bargaining - which are returning in September - the descent, rather than the increase in minimum wages, the cut in health and education expenditure, the maintenance of one-five departures for recruitment in the public sector - a single intake for five departures - and we have reached 'one to one' and have agreed with the institutions. In short, then, this creative shock you are preparing, this hidden agenda, is an agenda for redundancies, waste disposal, deregulation, demolition of social and labour acquired, social rights, social state. This is Mr. Mitsotakis' creative shock. In short, it is a more tripartite memorandum, which is ready as a programme - and, indeed, we will have the ownership of the reforms that are visible to the Greek people. And it is precisely for this reason, ultimately, that the exit from this particular committee mechanism has destabilised the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis personally, because he knows well that this project cannot be implemented without this alibi of the Memorandum of Force. What if you want the cheese on this hidden political agenda of creative shock? It is that if we apply it and if we go through a few more, bruv, black years - so many years - perhaps our lenders will agree to a little lower the surplus, because 3.5% is big, while 4.5% they signed it was good. Of course, here we note that there is no one who says that 3.5% is a small number. However, since 2019, a budget area of EUR 800 million has been established in 2019, one and a half billion euros in 2020 and so on. This budget area will reach more than EUR 3 billion, with these surpluses, based on the forecasts for growth of the economy, the reduction of unemployment and the increase of employment, the whole positive path that has been created, which will enable us, despite these surpluses, to have targeted tax reliefs in those social categories that have been aggravated. Now, Mr. Mitsotakis, let me come to your favorite theme, on the favorite theme of the New Democracy, which is pensions. You do not remember that when we negotiated with the International Monetary Fund and when the International Monetary Fund pressed with its well-known positions and demanded unnecessarily budgetary cuts, you and your executives who were every three and a little those days going out and saying - I have gathered nineteen public positions at that time - "close the assessment, close the evaluation", "Read the measures, take the measures". And, of course, not evidently, but maybe some on Twitter were already saying, "Vasta Shoeble, Yeun weight, IMF weight!"
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u161	Is it hiding on Twitter?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u162	I'm saying some people on Twitter show it up. I say "Some people have already shown this."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u163	Where's the "hidden" going?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u164	All right, Mr. Tasoula!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u165	Come on! Then these will be solved, Mr. Tasoula!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u166	You never secretly express yourself. You're clearly saying what you think. After all, in the last few days, you've overlooked your sarcasm in this Chamber! So I come here and say the following. It was you who, when the cuts were at the negotiating table, asked us to close the evaluation without the countermeasures. Three days you are now arguing and looking and you are constantly finding those reasons, for which there is no way out of this voted obligation to cut pensions. None! In fact, today I was listening to Mr Brutsis - I do not know if he is in the Chamber - to interview a radio station and to seek the reason why it is incomprehensible, because, he says, we are going to need new proportionate studies and we cannot commit such a crime and how we dare to say that. That's what you've been saying and that's what you've been saying for three days. And, of course, it was Mr Hatzidakis who confessed the day before yesterday that you have included the cut in your programme and you have, of course, put your co-chairmen to write that Europe cannot be spared, because that will put your own election campaign at risk. And today, Mr Mitsotakis, when it seems from your reactions and not from the publications - I will say for them - that you have been caught "with the sprout on the back" as they say in my village, and when, of course, it has become a little - very well known that your position and attitude are toward our partners - you told Moskovis here - that they should not move rum from the application of this cut, instead of apologizing for your cynicism, you come here and start the escapades. You didn't have, he says, a meeting with Mrs. Merkel. Were you together at the European People's Party Summit, or were you at another summit and that at another summit? You were together. You didn't have, he says, a meeting with Mr. Zehofer! And so that's the big deal, you didn't have a meeting, so the post is false. I don't want to stay in the post. Your reaction only recognizes your absolute guilt. Your reaction only three days in the Greek Parliament, in the public speech, recognizes and demonstrates your absolute guilt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u167	Lucky you didn't become a judge!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u168	Mr. Tasouula, leave the blessings. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u169	So until yesterday, you were here as judges, judges of the European institutions and judges of the legality of European regularity and imposed them the order. And today, you're here to be the free man. And you have tabled an amendment, which is, in fact, 'trychology', i.e. a hole in the water. Until yesterday, you considered the cut to be taken into account. You said publicly it was the country's commitment, you invoked Moscovisi. Now you saw the hole in your propaganda and rushed to pierce into the hole. Rebels of bad time! But take note, Mr Mitsotakis, that Mr Hatzidakis does not be angry with you, because you exposed him today with what he said the other day. Well, let's get serious. Listen! The pensioners, Mr. Mitsotakis, are not mice to shove into this hole, which you have rushed into today with your "trypology". They're people with pride, with brains. They know who they are and how they condemned them to poverty by 12 consecutive cuts in their pensions from 2010 to 2014. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And it is not even a spasm attempt to deceive your amendment. It is the epitome of your ridiculousness and cynicism, because you are in fact playing with the difficulties and expectations of thousands of job stumblers, who, if anything, deserve our respect. And I'm telling you, Mr. Mitsotakis, this is the Stepma. Don't be in a hurry. This bitter glass will drink sips and slowly until the end. Don't be in a hurry. It's all on time. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But the prosecuting of Mr Mitsotakis is not limited to economic matters. Of course, in economic matters you are driving from one strand to the other, but I think that detaineeism is also a key feature in the big issue, as Eukleidis Tsakalotos said before, on the crucial theme of our times, on the great issue of the management of this global phenomenon of refugee management. You missed me a moment ago during my first speech, and you confessedly said that the Hungarian Prime Minister took close to 49%. That is precisely your only criterion for voting on this issue. And that is why you are now taking a clear position on the major challenge in Europe today, on the major risk of a divided Europe, and you are also in agreement, I said in my first speech, on the wrong side of history, that you are in agreement with the extremes not only of your party but also of the whole of the European Union. You identify - I do not know whether you understand it or not - with the most extreme Soviet anti-immigrant and I will say it clearly, an anti-European proposal to manage the refugee crisis. You do not even hear the moderate voices in the European People's Party calling for European solutions to the major European problem of managing the refugee. You also want to ride the wave of populism and the extreme right, and you are taking extreme arguments, which have, of course, also been formulated at the recent summit, but, Mr Mitsotakis, who want to turn Greece and the European South into soul storehouses. Of course they say that the solution can come when one of the countries after another start closing their borders, if we let this happen - they say so - refugees drown in the sea, in the Mediterranean and in the Aegean, and if we circumvent every provision of international law. But I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, and ask you to ask yourself. Do you really think that your matching with these extreme right-wing positions on the issue of refugees in Europe, at the end of the day, is a match with those who have positions against the interests of our country? Do you realise that, in defending the arguments of the extreme right, you are basically bringing our country before the danger of being called on by other likes of yours to face the refugee on its own at some point? Because it is not possible on the inside to adopt arguments, Kurt, but to say that you are asking for European solutions abroad. Both can't do it. Because I have heard you say at some point that our government, which opened up, was responsible for the refugee crisis, this was your position, the borders in 2005. This is precisely the argument and indictment of the FDP in Germany against Chancellor Merkel. They blame her for opening the borders to refugees in 2015. That's exactly the position you adopt. And you cannot adopt this position and immediately after you have come to tell us that you are fighting the European People's Party against Mr Orban. I come to the issue of your favorite and, lastly, of the agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There to see populism. Look, Mr. Mitsotakis, Greece and all of Europe know and write it now, valid analysts, the international press, that you have become the late Macedonist from the need not to break your party apart by the well-known patriots who have built their political career on this issue since '92. That's well known. I do not want to go any further with your revolts on this matter. After all, we have already done so from this step in the confidence vote meeting. In your attempt to convince you that it is not the best deal, that the agreement is at the expense of national interests, that it is the worst thing that has ever fallen on the table to settle our relations with the neighbour in this twenty-five-year conflict, you insist every day on distortions and lies. You insist that you lie, that with this agreement Greece accepts "Macedonian nation" and "language". For language you know very well that since 1977, unfortunately, at a summit here in Greece, in Zappeion, our country has been in pre-effects since then. Where you are making the greatest smuggling, however, it is on the issue of the nation, because you know very well that nowhere - I repeat anywhere - there is no recognition of a 'Macedonian nation' in the agreement. There is only one issue of citizenship. And of course I don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u170	Nationality...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u171	Is that what you mean? Do you have a police I.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u172	I do. I don't know about you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u173	Take it off. You were a cop too, if I'm not mistaken. Take your police identity off and read where it says Nationality - Nationality and see what it says. Remove your police identity and stop twisting and misinforming the Greek people that we supposedly recognised "Macedonian nation". It's embarrassing to do that! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You are making these days that you have perhaps not heard the most interesting point of all those who have been heard lately on this issue and have been referring to the positions of both Zaev and Dimitrov, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It is the first time, after Gligorov in '92, the neighbour's Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, to admit in their interviews that they are Slavians and that nothing has to do with the cultural heritage, with history, the tradition of Greek Macedonia - this is the most important thing! - that they do not come from Macedonia and its heritage and, of course, - as important and crucial - that they do not claim and could not claim or have claims about minorities within Greece. I would now like to ask you this, Mr Mitsotakis. I heard that you posted an interview with the international political journal 'POLITICO' the day before yesterday. I hear that another text you posted on your party's official site and another posted the magazine as your main interview. There were parts missing. So these missing pieces caused the interest of some of my associates and they searched and found - you did not put this on the official website - that you say there is a fear of regional unrest in Greece, where the separatist forces can see the agreement as an invitation to organise them. I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, if it is true what I read. So, our neighbours officially acknowledge and say, "There's no minority in Greece and you, as Chief of Officer Opposition, are coming to speak in an international magazine about separatist powers?" What are these separatist powers? Do we recognize such forces in our country? Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm afraid in front of your extreme right-wing extremism to keep with you the extremists of your party, you become nationally dangerous, and you need to notice that. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I now come to the issues on which you have raised your voice very much. So I listened very carefully, instead of responding to questions relating to your proven relationships with business interests and entrepreneurs, trying not to answer them, not to prove that you are not involved with specific persons, but trying to prove that we are the same myself. This is the known strategy. We're all the same. Your basic argument was in the form of a question you asked me, whether or not I met businessmen. I have no doubt that I confess, thousands of them played since the time of the infamous Himalayan cat. Except that the crucial question, Mr Mitsotakis, is not whether a politician, Prime Minister or Chief of Computation meets business or not. The crucial question is, if he meets them and accepts their requests. The crucial question is, if he meets them and then is dealt with in order to serve their interests. The crucial question is, if he meets them and makes them the carpets in exchanges of support.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u174	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u175	Quiet. Don't be in a hurry. So you took the step today and referred to names. Very interesting. You asked me whether, among other things, I have met Mr. Bobola, Mr. Psycharis, Mr. Marinakis, Mr. Kalogritsa, although for him you should probably ask Mr. Theodorikos, your partner, if he often meets him not me. I want to answer you or rather I want to see you together, if we agree that the crucial issue is not if you meet, but if you do to someone the favors, what has my government done to them? Let's see! As you may know, Mr Mitsotakis - and if you do not know it, I will inform you - Mr Bobolas no longer has the newspaper 'NATIONS'. Why? Because he wasn't given the loans. From what I have learned, I have already learned, and in his business he has lost his upper hand over other partners. Mr. Psilaris? How's that soul? Mr. Psilaris no longer has Doll. It is not that strong person of all the previous governments from the Sheite period, for exactly the same reason, because he was not given his loans and did not keep his newspaper. As far as I'm concerned, he's lost a large part of his assets in auctions, a luxurious home, a villa he probably had somewhere in Porto Heli. Mr. Marinakis? Mr Marinakis, despite the fact that he did meet with me, did not save him from being prosecuted for the trouble he has with his jobs. Why, Mr. Mitsotakis? For, Mr Mitsotakis, as long as he goes through our hand, of course - because it does not all go through our hands - as long as we are government, it will be all Greek citizens equal to the law, and we do not do business, do not do and do not do. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you really have the chance to come after me to this Step and claim the same? Do it if you have it. Can you say, Mr. Mitsotakis, that when Mr. Christoforkos paid you, he even bought you the telephone center in your office, you and the government you were serving, you did not serve the interests of SIEMENS and Mr. Christoferkos? Can you claim it? Can you say the same thing about Mr. Frouze and NOVARTIS, that your governments were not helping them to maintain high prices for their pharmaceutical preparations? Can you say the same thing about Mr Marinakis, who has come to the point in a timely question from the New Democracy here in this House, that you have officially registered your party, that you are so close to each other, that if you are affected by his financial interests, the Chief of Police is affected? If you can claim these, claim them. Here we go. I'm open to hear answers. Mr Mitsotakis, whatever you say, you cannot convince for a simple reason, which I think everyone understands, the entire Greek people. We're not the same, and that seems to be it. We have another route, we have another moral charge, and don't try to make such comparisons. It won't do you any good. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And to finish with this joke since you caused me - if you didn't cause me, I'd stay in the economy - stop, Mr. Mitsotakis, present yourself as a supposed victim of malicious journalism, the publications that are supposedly directed by Maximos and by me personally, that what they see is supposedly the light of publicity and relates to your family or wife's finances, is a violation of your personal life and your privacy and that they are hits under the waist. Mercy! Let go of this 'caramella'. How much we care about us here and I imagine the majority of the Greek people, your personal life, Mr Mitsotakis. How much we care! You are, however, a public person - don't forget that - just like I do. You're Chief of Officer Opposition. You are vindicating to be Prime Minister. I've done it, and since then I've been a public figure. And, of course, I also have to accept criticism and comment. So, imagine, ladies and gentlemen, I am making a case - whether I as Chief of Reconciliation earlier or as Prime Minister today refused to present my wife's 'avoided', which relates to the activities of my wife, what they would write and what all the 'falcons' would do, which today have a line not to talk about this issue. Imagine if my wife had a bankrupt company of offshore, which was funded with close to EUR 1 million by an unknown businessman, through offshore, who is the same one who gave 8 million euros to the newspaper "First Subject", what they would write, what they would say! And if they were to ask me to uncover who is the one who finances my wife's business, and I have been silent for months, what would these "pads" say about me? And what you would say, not the "pads", but you, who for months have stood on the wall of Flambury and Stathakis, because, supposedly, they didn't have the right "from where you were", not because they concealed money, not because they didn't justify any money, not because they had some substantial irregularity, but because they were helping you then, set up on the wall of two people, who proved to be innocent. How about me if I had these? So imagine, ladies and gentlemen, I would have had such open issues and not just silenced them, but also had the courage here to do the honourer. Imagine that I had a loan of 700,000 euros and had arranged with Piraeus Bank to pay 3 grand a month - balloon payment is called this - and the rest at the end, though. Imagine having made such a provocative payment arrangement when the average Greek businessman today is threatened with bank confiscations. That's the reality. That is why I say, Mr Mitsotakis, leave these issues behind. What do you want with them now and highlight them? Let it go! You don't have to! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You don't have to, because Mr. Mitsotakis, you are the definition of the term complexity in modern Greek political history. That's the reality. And you can't talk about rope at the house of the hanger. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go down and close with it, because this is the most sensitive issue for me and I couldn't leave it in business. At the same time, when you ask me to show sensitivity and not to comment on issues relating to your wife's business, you from this Step back here commented just now on my wife's views and feelings in relation to the 2015 referendum. Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis. I am and we are all deeply proud of the Greek people's attitude on July 5, 2015. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because it was a leading act of resistance and whoever perpetuates the feeling of a people, is politically but also humanly inadequate and a little. The 5th of July is recorded as light and power in the history of the Greek people and we are proud, because we dared to bring the Greek people to the forefront of negotiating and even more proud that, when you blackmailed and terrified to take away his "yes", we were fighting "no", when you proclaimed: "Vasta Soible", we supported dignity and resistance to blackmail! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So coming back now and asking the reason for how we managed the 'no' of the people, which you rabies fought, is political courage. The people voted on July 5th, 2015, but also voted in September 2015, do not forget that, and their verdict was expressed in the polls and it is the one that sent you to the chairs of the counterpopulation. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This verdict, Mr Mitsotakis, not only do we want to forget, not only do we want to unblock, not only do we want to underestimate it, but we honour it and we will honour it, because without this verdict, we will not today have succeeded in achieving what we have achieved, without this verdict today, we will not have been able to get rid of the memorials, we would not have been able to regain our sovereignty, we would not have been able to regain the country's rule in the hands of the Greek people. This is our great historical predicament and for this great historical predicament, today we are proud and twice as proud that three years later we managed to regain our sovereignty and look to the eyes, proudly, this Greek people, who stood up in spite of threats, despite the challenges. Do the same if you have the guts!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u176	I should like to inform the House that, after Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Gennimata has also asked her to have the tenth minute of her dentistry, and then there will be the Prime Minister's teratomy. Please, the floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u177	Mr Tsipras, when you are forced to speak three times more than the time you have at your disposal, I always know very well that something has gone wrong. You will also give me the comfort of time, Mr President, so that I can respond to one of the issues raised by Mr Tsipras. And I start with the issues of the surpluses. Mr Tsipras, you were not the one who at the ECONOMIST conference a year and a half ago, did you say that it is impossible to accept any surpluses of 3.5%, because they condemn the country in protracted recession and austerity? Am I wrong? Are you confusing it? I have tabled twice in the Minutes of this House your relative abhorrence. I repeat it. Hear it well, Mr. Tsipras: "It is absolutely impossible that primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 should be maintained for many years, unless we want to drown the Greek economy and constantly have long-term stagnation conditions". You see, Mr Tsipras, unlike you, who never use extracts from me, but you always choose to completely distort what I am saying, I am the one who treats you with what you have said. So was it or was it impossible then to maintain these surpluses and is it or is it not possible to do so now without sinking the economy into a deep and protracted recession? Mr Chakatte, you have spoken to us about the debt sustainability report 2014. In other words, you also confessed that in 2014, according to the IMF, the debt was sustainable. What is best, I ask you: to be sustainable debt or not to be sustainable debt for a country? You are an economist of serious, distinguished nature. Is it good to have a sustainable debt or not to have a sustainable debt?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u178	Of course, with a difference, Mr Chakatte. Why did the International Monetary Fund in 2014 have a higher rate of growth than those who now accept it? Why? I'll tell you why. Because you have ruled three and a half years because you have dismantled the productive economy, because you have taxed and plunged the economy into a deep recession. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why I can explain to you - to the Prime Minister too - that the sustainability of the debt is primarily linked to growth rates. And growth rates are decreasing because you are incapable of causing a development shock. Do not twist what I say, Mr. Tsipras, unless you prefer to have growth rates of 2%. I want 4%. If you want to settle with 2%, come and say it. These growth rates which you can start, Mr Tsakalotes, are those that force us to make a more bold intervention in the debt, for which, here we have brought things - in order to make it clear, Mr Tsipras, because I am saying the same things here, I say the same things from outside Greece - I said, and I repeat, that any intervention on the debt is welcome, necessary, as you did, not capable of getting the country out of the adventure in which it has come. It is time to continue, Mr Tsipras, the very teaching process of the diagrams. And I will return to this diagram, which you have rushed to vomit, because you obviously did not understand it. Mr. Chakatte, there's one thing that is spoken in English, if I may, Trend, what the trend is. The trend, once we hit the bottom in 2011, was a strong three-month improvement in GDP. This trend describes this chart. And what does it say after that chart? It says that where we should continue this trend, you and Mr Varoufakis and Mr Tsipras and the referendum, which even today you have had the courage to defend. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I draw the conclusion from what you say that, yes, you remain proud of the referendum, which closed the banks. I'll keep that. I'll come back to the question of banks, you know, because that's where you get your nest. Well, Mr. Chakalote, let's go to the next diagram. If the trend, the trend continued, as all international houses at the time predicted, and if Greece was simply following the progress made by Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus, where would GDP be, Mr Tsakkatou today? It would be at EUR 217 billion. So this is the continuation of this. Where's GDP today? It's about 183 billion euros. In other words, you have lost EUR 34 billion of GDP every year. Every year you lost these. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The problem is that you, Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalote, do not even believe your forecasts. I have here another interesting diagram, which has two curves: blue is more than red. You see, I think, don't you? So, what are these two curves? These are your forecasts of May 2017 and May 2018. So you come - the same man - and review your forecasts down. It's yours, Mr. Chakalote. It's yours to see how reliable the predictions you've made. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have, however, left out of this debate and some other elements, which I consider to be useful. Don't smile, Mr. Poppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u179	I'm not laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u180	Don't worry, I'll come to yours later. Be patient. Of course the public debt, Mr. Tsipras, is very important. But there's private debt too, you know. And as much as our fellow citizens, who are listening to us, want to follow this debate, what they understand is that today they are drowned by debts and cannot respond and that the phones of the collection companies are ringing the worst hours and that there have been a million seizures to date. Why? For you have received the private debt, which all Greek citizens owe in tax and insurance funds - see, Mr Tsipras, where you received it - at 85.3 billion. And where is it today? It's at EUR 131 billion. This rise in private debt is the result of your tragic policies, overtaxation, the disappearance of the middle class and one, I dare say, hard class approach to anyone in that country produces, creates and eventually produces profits. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the issues of competitiveness. Like I told you, I like to talk to you with evidence. We are told, Mr Tsakalote, what is best for the competitiveness of the economy and how Greece is becoming investment-friendly. Yes, sir. I will not dwell on what the CEO of 'FRAPORT' said recently, which he, among many, described his licensed chaos and his difficulty in investing in that country. To get the official figures of the World Economic Forum, where we fell from the eighty-sixteenth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-st-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-st-st-s. I imagine you do not question that, Mr Tsipras. Please give this to the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I now come to the question of banks. Mr. Tsipras, you have told us with great pride what good you did in the referendum. The only thing that missed you was that as a result of the referendum and the closure of the banks, there had to be a third recapitalisation of the Greek banks, which was completely useless, before the adventure of the first half of 2015. What was the result of this third recapitalisation? The result is in this diagram. Look at that, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalote. What was the value of the shares in the HFSF of the four systemic banks? That was a cumulative value, more than 20 billion. And where did you bring her after the referendum? In this lousy picture. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You destroyed with the referendum, valued by the Greek taxpayer more than 25 billion and you are here and celebrate and applaud for the chamikas that you danced in the Constitution, with the golden people, and you tell us what proud you are, so that you could come and do a big fucked-up. And if it weren't for us, Greece would already have come out of the euro. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I understand the need to speak positively for Mr Meimarakis, but you said to Mr Meimarakis: 'or we are either finishing or finishing'. And Mr. Meimarakis and Mrs. Gennimatas and Mr. Theodorakis, you committed yourself to not having an election, and after forty days you went to elections. A liar, a liar, a liar, and a liar! And I'm guessing you don't question it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as pensioners are concerned, we should be a little serious, Mr Tsipras. Did you talk about respect for pensioners? Didn't you count 15th and 15th pensions? Are you kidding us now? Didn't you cut the pensions? Aren't you the ones who legislated the additional cuts? And you're talking about respect for retired people? You've humiliated them and fooled them in their faces! You're making fun of them today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder what a retired person who listens to you today must feel. You referred to Mr Hatzidakis. What did Mr. Hatzidakis say that caused your reaction? He said very simply that if there is a chance that pensions will not be cut, that pensions will not be cut. We did not vote for them, Mr Tsipras. You voted for them! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if you change your policy and vote out, what you voted on, we are with you. But either there is a programme and commitments or it does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u181	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u182	I saw Mr. Tsipras took it back, which he was saying. I found it very interesting that Mr Solts, whom I met and discussed quite extensively, was the two of us, and you know that when two people are in a debate, de facto the leaks were limited - he obviously considered it appropriate, Mr Tsipras, to update what we discussed not 'DIE WELT', 'DIE ZEIT', 'SPIEGEL', but 'the authors' newspaper'! Good news, Mr. Solts, is communicating with the editors' Newspaper! Awesome! And he didn't say what he said, but what I said! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And here was another miracle of modern journalism. It is not only the Editorial Newspaper. Mr. Carter wrote it too. So, Mr. Solts is in touch with Mr. Heather. He has so many contacts in Greece! Who are you kidding? Intimate story of you was also from the underground of Maximus, Mr. Tsipras. And you want anyone to believe we said what you claim we said? These are not serious things, Mr Tsipras. I now come to the other issues which you have raised. As far as Skopje is concerned, Mr Chakalote, do not talk about this, especially you. You signed or not in 2008 that you recognise Skopje as "Macedonia's Republic". Yes or no? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't talk, let it go. Take care of the economy. In the economy, I recognise that we can make a tough confrontation. We have other opinions. But I think we can talk. The Skopje let it go, because you've got a lot of "blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue." I now come to the crucial issue raised by the Prime Minister. Is it recognised or not "Macedonian" ethnicity? What does Mr. Zafe say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u183	The deal is what it says!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u184	The agreement says 'nationality'. "Nationality" in Greek, ma'am, translates as a nationality. Nationality is ‘citizenship’. Learn some English! It doesn't hurt! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what the deal says on page 2, but you don't bother reading it. They brought you "pig in the sack" to vote on it. I do not know if you, too, belong to those who do not bother you very much about the name issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u185	What does our identity say? What's my ID?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u186	Quiet! Please, Mr. Cironi! [[Noise from the Wing of SYRIZA and New Democracy]] Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u187	So what does Mr. Zafe say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u188	I've said 'no'! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u189	Ask Mr. Zafe. Because the whole campaign by Mr Zaev is based on the very simple argument that "for the first time we have taken from Greece, which we have always claimed, Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity". That's what Mr. Zafe says. He says it himself. I'm not talking about it. You don't say it. You gave other words, Mr Tsipras, which is why we criticise you, and that is why we say that the agreement is bad - something that no one else was willing to give. And that is the main criticism we are making in the agreement, in conjunction with the chaos, which you have brought to Northern Greece. You will also speak in northern Greece, from what I understand, soon there - I will come back to this issue - to talk to companies in northern Greece a little bit, to see what huge problems you have created in all the Greek companies who use the surname 'Macedonian', which today is no longer guaranteed and are outraged by all these companies, because you have not rushed with your agreement to protect them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, I understand your attempt to present as a New Democracy program the remains of your imagination. You have presented an agenda which has nothing to do with what I have said. You talked about the minimum wage. Obviously, you did not notice that in the speech I made to BSE, I talked about the possibility, provided that the social partners agree - an increase in the minimum wage, Mr Tsipras. That's all you missed, but you stood at this Step and said I wanted to lower the minimum wage and go to 12 hours. When did I say that, Mr. Tsipras? What kind of courage are you standing here putting words in my mouth that I've never said? You can imagine, I would have liked to have said this, but obviously some are disturbed by the fact that New Democracy, through its initiatives, proves that it has an active social agenda. It disturbs you that we raised the issue of nurseries first and said 'no children outside the school station'. It disturbs you that we were the first to implement the minimum guaranteed income and we said that we want to give a billion to the minimum guaranteed income. All this is bothering you, because you fought it, you fought the CRL, as you now say. So, I understand that's a little messy for you. But what can we do? You will also have to adapt to this situation. Again, you have not said anything to me, Mr Tsipras - I do not know why you and Mr Voutsis are so systematically avoiding this issue - for the vote of the relatives. What about this matter, finally? Is it so hard to agree? Let's agree on something, boy! Let's break Athens II and agree what people will vote on from the next elections. Why are you throwing the ball all the time on the platform? Why are you telling us we're going to make committees, it's difficult, one thing, the other, the third? Make it clear that it will apply to the next elections, to go together to break Athens as well, not to tell people that we are fighting all the time. Let's agree on something. It's not bad! However, I imagine you recognise that this is a moral obligation on the young children who have left, but against all those who do not have the financial opportunity to buy a ticket and vote in the next election. I will wait for your answer, although I sense your refusal and the President of Parliament, to discuss this issue at a separate sitting, as we have requested and have the right to do, that they probably do not have much chance of convincing you about it. Refugee: Tsipras Interview on February 29 at “enikos”. He's making a review of Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u190	Who? “enikos”?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u191	To Mr Georgiadis, you are making a criticism of Hajikolaou - I beg your pardon - on the TV of HD1. "Let me tell you that with these tweets Mr Georgiadis and his clear differentiation from Mr Mitsotakis' position, which, not to say that I am saying only negatively, I must say that his attitude to refugee is a attitude of responsibility." You said it. You said it on 29-2-2016. Then what happened? Suddenly I turned into an ally of Orban? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At least, Mr. Tsipras, remember what you're saying, because you're being exposed. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u192	Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down and do not interfere!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u193	Let's get this straight. I told you at the first moment, Mr Tsipras, that on the issue of the refugee issue we need to find European solutions, but you still cannot today tell you what this hostage is anymore from the left-wing components that we must protect our borders. Can't you say that? Is it so hard to get that phrase out of your mouth? Her name's not only the right-wing people. You rushed to identify me with AFD. McCronn doesn't say the same thing? The German Social Democrats are not saying the same thing, that Europe must protect its borders, and that if it does not protect them in any way can it not survive Schengen? We're the only ones who say it? Why do you have so much difficulty saying that, Mr. Tsipras? What ideological notes do you have to pay off, that you cannot accept this simple reality? So I tell you that the solutions to the refugee problem must be European. I don't know what a deal you made with Mrs Merkel - I don't know about it, so I can't put myself on the table - but you see I didn't rush to be critical of this agreement because I don't know what it means. It would be very easy to plunder on it. I did not do so, Mr Tsipras, because in fact, there must be European solidarity and we must stand together with them, who have lifted a great deal of weight in the management of the refugee and in relation to those who think that the problem is not their concern. So don't try to put words in my mouth here, which I haven't said. I shall conclude, Mr President, on the most personal points. Mr. Tsipras, I imagine you didn't leave any suggestion that any social relationships I can have resulted in a certain benefit from some entrepreneurs, because there was never a chance that anything like this would happen. I didn't have any authority to do that either. And when you referred to the theme of “NOVARTIS” you know very well that social contact, you twisted it in such a way as to leave insinuation. When Mr. Stratzis was not even a director of “NOVARTIS” when this meeting took place. And you saw Mr. Froze. And you've seen Mr. Froze. Haven't you seen him? Oh, you've never seen him. Yes, sir. You never saw him as a representative of the pharmaceutical industry! You don't remember! I'll freshen your memory to another chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u194	How do you know that so well?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u195	You've made a press release.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u196	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u197	You've made a press release! Aren't you embarrassed? You've made a press release! You have a very selective memory. I'm reading the press releases. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What I can tell you, however, is this: you have referred to various names. To get caught by only one, because you mentioned it: Gorgeous. You know, I was in Patras yesterday and the great complaint of the Patras and Western Greece, is this afflicted road from Patras to the Tower. You broke him into eight contractors. You gave the four of them to Mr. Kalogerica. Charging. The play stopped with Mr. Kalogerica. You want to give him a channel. You accepted the pasture as a pledge. And you come back and tell me we're not doing business with them? Who are you kidding, Mr. Tsipras? They go into Maximos and you trade with them. I, from what you can see, speak with evidence. If you have to prosecute me that “NOVARTIS” has benefited from a signature of my own, please tell me very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm coming to the most personal. Mr. Tsipras, for two years, publishing complexes perfectly identified with the Maximos Concert Hall have targeted my wife in a vulgar manner. They've broken into our personal life. They have been grabbed by a personal adventure, to claim that we had not been in a dimension and that all this was virtual, to hide elements of the "outside you". That's what you said. As a result of these papers and the message lodged, with lightning speed, there was a line in my wife's tax control. Within forty-eight hours this has happened. What happened? He accepted it properly and provided all the evidence. And what did the CCIMP give its opinion, Mr. Tsipras? That there's no tax loose ends. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And what did the prosecutor, Mrs. Psaroudakis? That the case goes to the file. Don't you know that? You don't know them? So learn it. So from the moment you've learned it, do not mention my wife’s name again. You've had enough of her. She's a responsible woman, a businessman. He never did business with the public. It was found to be targeted, only because that served your own interests. And on the question of "subjects" you know very well that the initial decision of the committee was that we do not need to make a joint statement "wherever you were" and after several interventions the committee changed its decision and will normally produce all the information requested by the Commission "Where Essos". You wondered why the independent judges voted against the obligation to present 'from the outset' and only the politicians who voted in favour? I won't say anything more. That is what the committee decided. That's what's gonna happen. However, from the moment on, Mr Tsipras, the case has been filed by the Greek judiciary - the prosecutor is neither Mr Vaxvanis nor you - I forbid you to speak again about my wife and on this matter. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, you know, he's a man from one point to another. He's an unprecedented and unprecedented, what you've done. And you did it personally. You knew the case was filed and too much of that, you're coming back to the exact same subject. On the issues of loan arrangements, I'll see you another hour. But look at you, too, any of you in your family companies that have arranged loans. Watch it for a bit. Check it out. You might know that too. I won't say anything more today. Next time, you can tell me. Because you must be more careful about them when you have your nest dirty. From there, to relax the climate, then, as you can see, my emotionally charged answer is being closed with an interesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u198	The Preacher?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u199	All set is all loans. Ask Mr. Tsipras if his relatives have a company, which has arranged her loans, and on what terms they are privileged. No two yards and two weights. Well, let's finish with something a little more relaxed. Mr Tsakalotus, you said that Members should go out on the street and inform and explain to the citizens about the agreement. I received an invitation to your speech - and I received it in my mail with a mass mission - which you will be doing at the SBBE of Thessaloniki. Go back to Thessaloniki. Go back to the same room that you went to the exact last time, next to the airport. As the invitation says, "due to increased security measures, we would be very much inclined to have your police identity together." [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes a copy of the above-mentioned e-mail, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So go to Thessaloniki now, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So go to Thessaloniki. Let me see how you're going to IDU. Let me see how you walk down the street and explain to the Macedonians the deal you signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad in order to go to Belgium, from 9 July to 10 July 2018, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u201	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group - DIMAR Mr Fofi Gennimata and the Members of her Party have today tabled a motion for a law: 'Change pension reductions and promote the redeployment of the insurance system'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please don't laugh! Mrs. Gennamas won't talk. The meeting will be closed with the trialogue of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u202	My speech will be brief, Mr President. I will not get far this time, so I will not worry about Mr. Mitsotakis any more, who said that I've had enough in my dentext because he scared me in the first place. Such a shock I've never seen before! Ladies and gentlemen - Mr Mitsotakis is not in the Chamber - I will start with the economic issues. I will not be speaking for a long time, but I would like to say this. He referred to the growth of private debt, Mr. Mitsotakis. I would like to point out that private debt is indeed a matter for the Greek economy. But we should have the whole real picture. Of the approximately EUR 130 billion in private debt, 32 billion is only seventy-three VAT. Including these seventy-three LNGs, only seventeen thousand LNG owes 85 billion. So we realise that here we are facing a problem that is very structural, essential, which is not dealt with by spending it. We are in a problem, particularly with the fact that large businesses or large entrepreneurs have, unfortunately, managed to make their money abroad, to go bankrupt, and owe some billions to the banks that will never return them. And that is the structural problem, which concerns a large part of non-performing loans. They are the so-called'strategic malpractices'. With regard to the crucial issue, which is whether Mr Mitsotakis actually has an agenda of anti-social - shocking - I said in my speech - a secret agenda - and I described the creative shock that passes through the abolition of the labour movement's conquests, the liberation, we say, the redundancies, the expansion of eight hours - he said that he never mentioned that. I would like to remind him that just a few days ago, about a month ago, in his speech to the APRC, he mentioned the fact that in our eight-hour period it has been overdue. It was one of many cases where Mr Mitsotakis has surprised us with the sincerity of his positions, when he is, of course, in front of audiences that, rather, feel like they will enjoy what is said. In the House today he said differently. But when someone says that eight hours are outdated and says a fanatical supporter of Austrian Chancellor Kurts, who established a 12-hour week, it is certain that the agenda that hides work is an agenda extreme neoliberal and conservative. I come to the issues raised by Mr Mitsotakis in relation to the Macedonian. He did not understand what I said from Stepa, that anywhere in the agreement, which we have signed, the notion of "Macedonian nation" is not mentioned. And he made another of the many familiar poachings, which he has attempted from time to time, to come out and tell us that "nationality" means "nationality" and not "nationality". So I, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing more to say than repeat my urge to take off your police ID cards. The police identity I have here has been issued in 2007, as I can see. A colleague gave it to me, because I didn't have my own. In 2007, SYRIZA did not rule, to make any smuggling or try to overthrow the data. At the front of the police identity, held by all Greeks, who have a police identity, is recorded in the Greek: "Greek citizenship". In English: "Hellenic nationality". What does that mean? This means that in official terminology, the term 'nationality' in English - citizenship is a legal link between each state and its citizens - or 'citizenship' conceptually both in English and French, it is attributed to the terms 'nationality' - 'citizenship' respectively. That's the reality. Why are you trying to twist this reality so much? Every Greek citizen has a police ID card. He can take it out and read it. How do you think you can make this distortion of reality and this trick succeed? But Mr. Mitsotakis did one more thing. He addressed Mr Tsakalotos, by waving his finger, because - he says - Mr Tsakalotos is the one who had once signed a text, a political text, together with many others, which he mentioned - perhaps I do not know, but I have no reason to question it -... [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Don't smile. You'll be smiling soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u203	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u204	He therefore mentioned the text on the Republic of Macedonia. I would therefore like to submit to the Minutes, not what Mr Tsakalotos signed, but the interview Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Mitsotakis, on 17 January 1993 to journalist Stefano Cassimatis at the "Epsilon" of Hellenophypia. Do you know what the main title was? "Oh, not a big deal about Macedonia. And the question of the name must be solved by compromise, composite name, geographical designation’. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u205	What Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u206	Mrs. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u207	1993?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u208	Yeah, 1993. You referred to a text by Mr Tsakalotou, which is more than a decade ago. But the things that concern Mr. Mitsotakis, which are in the past, you want to cover them. You don't like them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u209	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u210	Mr. Bourra, all right, at school. He was learning things at school. It was Harvard. He was learning. He did not, of course, know about the Lambraki case in 1960, but he learned things. And then he defended a position, which was the official position of your party and the late Constantine Mitsotakis. So he was in a good position and attitude to his political heritage, which he has repeated many times in his public statements later, but also in this Step here, in this Chamber. Indeed, in 2016, in his initial positions on the refugee issue, he had taken a different attitude. I would remind you that in 2016 Mr. Mitsotakis for our Macedonian was going to the House "Why don't you bring it?" And that "Our position is Bucharest and the composite name". Of course, later on, for reasons which they have to do - and they are well known - with the need to unite your party and the hegemony of the far right wing, it has changed its position and acceded to a view which is not the same as yourself and your sideline. I would like to end with the suggestions Mr Mitsotakis left here on matters relating to business relations. I have, I think, given an integrated answer to my remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, I imagine you are listening to me, but you are not in the Chamber - I am sure you are listening - I did not sludge the fan. I have not referred to matters that are not known nor to matters secretly, which I honestly do not know, and some - as they say - may have - in my family. Who are they? Why doesn't he tell them? And how did he get these? Where did he look? What methods, really, did he look for them? I have referred to issues that are well known to the general public and which already concern judicial officers. The SIEMENS case has been employing Greek justice for years. And, obviously, everything Mrs Tsakalou, who involves Mr Mitsotakis, is statements that Mr Christoforikos' secretary has made on oath. It's not mud in that fan. The case has been in Greek justice for years. The NOVARTIS case also deals with Greek justice and public prosecutors. I imagine that Mr Frouzi's mail to Mr Mitsotakis and any other information that has not been made public will also be examined in detail. That's not a mud in the fan either. It is about very specific things. But Mr. Mitsotakis continued his attempt to self-sufficient that he was the big victim. In fact, with a prosecutor's tone, he forbade me to refer to this issue, which concerns his wife's business. And I explained in my speech that if my wife were to have business and some offshore activities of another businessman, who gave 8 million euros to the "PRODUCT" and financed with 850,000 euros these business activities of my own wife, then if I hadn't come here to say who this businessman is, it would be a major issue for the democracy and the political life of the country. So Mr. Mitsotakis didn't answer that. Instead, he began telling me things that I did not mention. I did not mention whether or not there was tax control and what the JRC did. I asked him one thing very specific: who is this businessman and offshore who finances his wife and therefore - and let us leave this caramel of personal relations, wants to be a Prime Minister - with EUR 850,000 and finances the 'primary subject' with EUR 8 million? Is that not a question of the political life of the country and democracy? I would remind you that in the French presidential elections, the right-wing candidate lost the election on a case involving his wife. And he lost them, not for 850,000 euros financing a secret businessman, but because his wife was in a slow-wage position and took 1,000 to 2,000 euros a month. That is why he lost the French election. So we want to be Europe, we want to stay Europe, but we want to be Europe in conditions of interlocutory, reminiscent of the East and not Europe. Let's go down. I have therefore raised issues, which are well known, most of them concern the media and the public prosecutors and judicial authorities, the judicial officers. Mr Mitsotakis mentioned - so as not to forget that - the businessman, Mr Kalogritsa, again sludgeing the fan. And what did he say? 'You gave him the works'. What kind of play did we give Mr. Kalogritsa? Wasn't there a competition? Didn't he win the contest? Does he have anything specific to report? So mud in the fan, implying that I challenge him - I provoke him! - if he has elementary political honesty, show them up. He referred to my own family affairs with loans. I don't even know them. I challenge him! And I challenge him, if there's anything about me, my family, or the ministers of this government, to take it to the prosecutor. Just sturgeon! That's what we're not playing with!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u211	In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which was held at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, at the level of the Heads of State or Government, on the economics, decisions of the Eurogroup and commitments made by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S2-commons.u212	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 19.18 hours.
