ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Department's 11-9-2018 authorisation, its minutes of the IA's meetings, of Tuesday, 11 September 2018, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Access to Greek free television channels and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, two topical questions will be discussed. I should like to inform the Department that the second under number 35/6-9-2018, the first-round question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘New Frontier Toll Station of the Egnatia Road in the Regional Unit of Kavala’, will not be discussed as a result of the inquiring Member. The first one under number 31/4-9-2018, a top-stage question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Enhancement and upgrading of children's camps in Draghole and Kastania of the Carditsa Prefecture", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr.Gavroglou, due to a workload. Also, the third, with number 33/5-9-2018, top-circuit question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "There has been a US involvement in the skeptic issue?", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr.Bolaris. So we begin with the discussion of the fourth under number 34/6-9-2018 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "Measures to absorb all children at the children's stations". In this timely question, the Minister for the Interior will answer Mr Haritsis. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I remind you of what the Prime Minister said in April 2017 at the SYRIZA Youth Conference: "We are planning, we are creating hundreds of children's stations. No new couple will need to pay childcare facilities for children over three years." How long have all these thick words proved to be, the so-called support for poor, unemployed households as a priority, and why? On the basis of the EBRD data this year, sixty-one thousand three hundred sixty-sixteen applications were submitted, 7% more than last year and only ninety-three and eleven children received the coveted voucher. Sixty-five thousand children were excluded, 65% of whom are unemployed and partly employed and with an income of between EUR 0 and 12 000 at 81%. In Heraklion, for example, two thousand eight hundred applications were made and a thousand five hundred fifty were approved. 55% of applications have been excluded. It turns out that the ninety-three thousand sixty-eight children in Greece who eventually took the voucher will not be able to find in their town a place in structures. It's not enough to have the voucher, there have to be available places. In the two largest regions of the country, Attica and Central Macedonia, with the largest number of children's structures, municipal and private, the applications made are over eighty-two thousand children and the vouchers only thirty-four thousand five hundred. In Heraklion, for example, nine hundred and fifty voucher were given for seven hundred fifty places and 100 infants and 100 infants were excluded. I remind you of your announcements as a government to create four hundred new kindergartens for forty-five thousand children in 2018. It was a big communal deception after all. Like also the EUR 50,000 to EUR 70,000 single, which you gave to two hundred twelve municipalities, it is not enough for new structures, nor for the necessary changes to be made to take up more infants, which is an objective question if the position of infants is emptied after the measure of childcare in kindergartens. This policy of voucher actually legalises reactionary Euro-Union policy, which says that child education and child care do not result in a social need and as a right of children. You have turned it into a lottery of poverty with an opportunityal end date, which recalls that the public structures for the child are nothing but an opportunityal feature. I would therefore like to ask you what the government intends to do to ensure, with immediate measures and with all the modern and necessary conditions, that the municipal structures for infants and infants are extended to all children who have either participated in the programme at the request of their parents and today have not been approved or found in a structure in their area or have made a request to the municipalities. Secondly, what are the exceptional financing measures of the municipalities to direct the relevant municipal structures for CDIs - CDIs and CDIs, to meet the needs of all children and to ensure for all municipalities the renewal of all workers' contracts in their legalisation without conditions and conditions? Finally, will the government make available funds to build up the necessary building infrastructure for children's homes that are now missing from the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify some things in relation to a major social issue, which, unfortunately, has, in recent years, seen publicity in a distorted way, in our view, and I will explain exactly what I mean on the basis of evidence. First of all, I would like to say that the government has raised this issue to the highest priority and has gone ahead with the implementation of a grid of actions to cover this very important issue, as you put it in your question. You will allow me to refer to these actions as briefly as possible. First of all, I refer to the programme of funding through the vouchers, the well-known Programme of Harmonisation of Professional and Family Life, which, as you know, is financed by the NRP. Let me here also take advantage of my previous capacity in the Ministry of Economy. For this programme, therefore, which is financed by European funds from national and resources from the thirteen regions, I should first of all like to say that we have proceeded with a comprehensive reform of this programme so as to change the criteria for access for children to these structures, which were in previous periods. With the new system, therefore, through the joint ministerial decision, signed by the Ministries of Home Affairs, Labour and Finance, there are significant advantages, as it is socially more fair and at a practical level more efficient. In particular, it ensures the adoption of a molecularisation system which encourages further strengthening of specific categories of families, notably families with low incomes and families with disabilities, the granting of a free choice to parents between available structures without loss of voucher in the event of a change of structure, as well as the introduction of a less bureaucratic and simplified system. This year, therefore, on the basis of this new way of operating the programme, indeed - that is the number that you mentioned - ninety-four thousand are the number of vouchers allocated. However, these concern the first division. As every year and as you know very well, it follows a second division, which this year is accelerating and will take place by the end of this month, September, so that the rest of the voucher can be distributed. Through the first allocation, all the family children, who are below the poverty line and all the applicants for CSR - CSR - CSR, regardless of income or age, as provided for in the joint ministerial decision, to which I referred earlier. Our commitment is that with the second division, which, as I said, will be completed within the month, voucher will be awarded to all families who will find a place in infants, children or nursery stations. This year a total of twenty - five to twenty - six thousand vouchers will be available. In other words, we will have an increase compared to the previous year, in 2017-2018, by about 6.5%. I should also like to point out in relation to funding, because you also referred to the issue of funds, in 2014, the national funds involved in the programme amounted to EUR 12 million. So far, this year, the EUR 138 million - I repeat from national funds - is estimated to be EUR 167 million, while the overall financing of the programme, namely national and European resources, has been increasing. Since the school year 2013-2014, amounting to 173m euros, this year will reach 235m euros. I will present here in the Minutes the relevant table showing the allocation of funds between 2013 and 2014 up to the final estimate that we have had for this year's period, which shows that on the one hand the total funds for national resources have increased to a very large extent compared with a few years ago and, on the other hand - and, more importantly, in our view, this was a political choice from the present government - that the funds relating to national resources have been used up rather than European. European funds are being reduced, national resources are being increased. That's the trend. This year we will reach EUR 167 million of national resources in the specific programme that I told you about. I'm filing the table for you to see. [[At this point, the Minister, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, a very important issue, which you also raise in your question, is a structural problem of this system - we have mentioned it on several occasions - the lack of structures, the lack of positions in nurseries. It is a structural problem, of course, which has not arisen in the last three years. There was no welfare when the necessary structures had to have been built before the crisis. Nevertheless, for this deficit too - if you want - a great effort is being made to take care of the EBRD, following a programme of the Ministry of Interior with the Ministry of Labour, the funding goes on to the municipalities for the establishment of new sections of childcare and childcare for 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u5	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u6	I will exhaust, if you will allow me, my dentistry, to fully cover Mr. Synthriakis's questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u7	Okay, if you want, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u8	For 2018, therefore, following proposals by four municipalities for parts of total capacity of about two and a half thousand children, a budget of EUR 15 million has been set again from national resources from the Ministry of Labour. And my competent Minister - my colleague - Mrs Fotou, I imagine she will then have more to say on this. I am also coming to the third initiative, which we have taken on this issue, which concerns the establishment of a new institutional framework for the functioning of municipal children's and nurseries. Here was a very important step in September 2017 with the adoption of the Presidential Decree setting out the technical specifications, the specific suitability conditions and the procedure for monitoring the stations. There have already been too many cases of stations which did not fulfil the conditions of the law, and in December 2017 a decision was issued by the Minister of Interior and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs Fotio, on the new model regulation for the operation of municipal stations. The Minister will then say more. With regard to the financing, however, of this programme, which is to change the framework for the operation of stations, funding has been guaranteed with a budget of EUR 95 million, again coming from national resources and with financing per station and not per municipality, as stated in your question, up to EUR 50,000. On this basis, municipalities are invited to apply for a grant for this specific programme by 31-12-2018. All in all, therefore, the amount of funding available for 2018 from national funds - and this is a very important development, which, if you want, has nothing to do with what has happened over the past three years - for both these three programmes and for both the new sections and the new institutional framework for the year will total EUR 277 million. It is a sum that has never been allocated to such programmes. I would therefore say that in terms of the selection criteria for children participating in the programme, with social, income criteria and the amount of funding and the total number of beneficiaries, which, for the first time, will reach twenty-five and twenty-five per cent for the first time, twenty-six thousand children, there is significant progress. Of course, to answer the question of whether we are in some ideal situation, I say that we are obviously not. However, given the financial possibilities of the public funds, the budgetary limitation we have, I think that the government's political initiative to strengthen national resources in this very important programme is reflected in the figures that I have just mentioned to you. The political will, of course, is to increase in the coming years the resources involved, both to cover the vouches and to create new structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u9	Please, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u10	Mr President, our intervention for the problems at the children's stations is about now. You may make too many promises. I told you what the Prime Minister said in 2017 at the SYRIZA Youth Conference, what Mrs Fotio said about the additional four hundred structures, children's stations, forty-five thousand additional children, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u11	I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u12	The reality this year, however, says that sixty - five thousand children were left out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u13	They didn't stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u14	You say you'll give extra voucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u15	Every year, that's what happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u16	Of the ninety-four thousand you say, there will be a hundred twenty-five thousand, a hundred twenty-six thousand. I'm still telling you, apart from day care, without voucher, there'll be thirty-five to forty thousand children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u17	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u18	I told you in my protology that, because you give voucher, it doesn't mean they find a nursery. That's not what you're saying. You're diligently hiding it. It's another thing to give a voucher and another thing to run the parent from morning to night to find a nursery and finally not to find either public or private. You gave Heraklion one hundred and fifty vouchers. The available places are seven hundred fifty. A hundred babies and a hundred toddlers are out of childcare. How, then, are you saying that you will give extra voucher as a second division without having secured corresponding positions? Where are you going to secure these seats? You say you gave 50,000 euros per day, if I understood it correctly. Excuse me, but it's not per day. You have given it per municipality, and even without population criteria, without taking into account what the real needs of a municipality are. So tell the truth. And take note of something else: You speak on the basis of the existing data, the number of applications, that is.. The actual number of children who are out of childcare facilities is much greater, is more than what is seen on the basis of parents’ requests. Do you know why? Because they do not meet the criteria and the conditions and therefore do not go to submit these applications. I give you a characteristic example: Based on the births of the last four years in the Municipality of Heraklion, they should be in infant - kindergartens of about eight and a half thousand children. Right now at private and municipal stations of about three thousand, kids. Approximately 65% of infants and infants do not even have the right to dream of approving their application and crossing the door of children and infants. That's the reality. Municipal structures, Minister, remain shrinking. It's been four years of your government. Received what you received from PASOK and New Democracy, but remain shrunk, remain in deficit, housed in rent buildings many times unsuitable, in order to implement the practice and ensure the care and safety of children. So she's one of the same. You have followed exactly the same policy as the policy followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. You start by assuming that the situation does not change to meet all the needs of all children, of course with this extended poverty that exists. Therefore, the right to a place in the kindergartens should be according to you to have only the impoverished and not even all the impoverished, because they do not as a whole guarantee not the voucher but a place in a nursery. For example, the abolition of automatic resettlement of infants and infants at the same day's nursery, which ensured that no child would be changed from year to year and, of course, that no child who is already at a nursery would be completely out of preschool education. Why is Mrs. Fotio attenuating? I would remind you, therefore, that in December 2017 under the regulations on the operation of nurseries and nurseries, you abolished the resettlement in the name of moleculosis. What does that mean? Whether a child continues at the same kindergarten or will be accepted again at a kindergarten will depend each year on the change of income or family status. This is the social policy of SYRIZA - ANEL, with devastating consequences for the socialisation of these children from their tender age and for all families as a whole. Mr President, you will allow me to say that, of course, for parents and children, the situation is the way we describe it. However, they are genuinely against working in such a sensitive sector almost exclusively contractors with renewed contracts, who of course give themselves the best and are rewarded with hostage and intensification at work. In Heraklion they are ninety-five permanent and eighty-seven contractors. Do you know how much needs are? For two hundred permanent posts plus those contractors already in existence. We're talking about a multiple number of workers. And workers at the offices of the municipal authorities for children's stations every summer, with the contracts that have expired, are forced to take out all the work required by the sinful EBRD, prepare dossiers, boxes, whole, experience the incredible suffering and intensification of work, or due to a burden of this period, with statements, results, locations of children working overtime and not paid, without contracts, but also of teachers, who can in fact work exotic or eight hours but with a higher number of children. That's the reality. The JRC speaks and fights for state-owned infantry nurseries, whose sole responsibility will be for the State and for the financing and construction and operation of these stations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What you did, by passing kindergartens in kindergartens, with a decision and a signature, you realize - and here we will be looking at it - that will create many problems. Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u19	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u20	On the one hand, the existing kindergartens are unable to accept infants because changes must also be made to the functioning of these stations and, on the other, the number of nurseries in Greece is not enough. Neither infrastructure nor staff - i.e. teachers - is there to take all kinds of toddlers and ensure pre-school education. So the struggle for workers is clear. The JRC supports this struggle for public children's stations with the sole responsibility of the state, but also the simulation of all employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u22	It is good to have a dialogue, but the dialogue must also take account of the elements. I will repeat the very basic elements, to know what we are saying, because we have heard some very heavy dissolution speeches, lack of will to do things for daycare stations, etc. The children who entered nurseries in 2014-2015 were eighty thousand. This year there will be a hundred twenty - five thousand children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u23	Needs have increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u24	Of course, needs have increased and we're trying to cover them as far as possible, from eighty thousand to twenty-five thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u25	They increased because of your policy. People are poor and they can't take the kids to private.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u26	Mr. Symphony, that's not right. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u27	I want to ask two questions. I did not understand your answer. Do you think there are no social criteria in the way vouchers are distributed? Do not support family children from the popular layers, children with unemployed parents, children with OFIs? This is our priority. That's why the way the vouchers were distributed changed and that's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u28	The social criteria...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u29	I didn't interrupt you. I'm very clear. Social income criteria have been introduced in the distribution of the programme's vouchers, precisely so that we can cover all children - and this has been done - the families facing a financial problem. That was the priority. So we changed the system and the results show that we did well and changed it. The second question is also rhetoric and I did not understand your answer. Do you disagree with compulsory pre-school education, the two-year-old?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u30	If you ask me, obviously, we don't disagree. On the contrary, we're the ones who say public free two-year-old pre-school education, but without kindergarten, no teachers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u31	But what you said before does not make it very clear that you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u32	Please, Mr. Covenant!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u33	I am now making this clear to you. Perhaps we are the only political force that we have in place for two-year-old pre-school education, public, free of charge, but with the guarantee of kindergartens, structures and permanent staff, permanent teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u34	We're the power that did it. Good, thank you. I close, saying that criticism is acceptable, to see what shortcomings there are. Allow me, but for the shortcomings in the structures you have to go elsewhere, to see what municipalities do for this story over the years as to whether they meet the needs. However, the figures are concrete and inappropriate: the number of children who have benefited from the programme under our own governance over the past three years, with the conscious increase in national resources within a narrow financial framework is large, from eighty to twenty-five thousand children and the programme budget has reached numbers which have nothing to do with what has been happening in the past. I repeat the figure for this year from national resources and for nurseries and for the creation of new sections in the existing ones and for the implementation of the new operating regulation, it is EUR 277 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakoyannis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Bakoyannis for her excellent report. By letter to the President of Parliament, she informs us that she will be absent from the work of the Department and the committees on Wednesday 12-9-2018, which is in Cyprus. The Department approves?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u36	The Department therefore approved the requested authorisation. We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 32/4-9-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP II, Eftathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Kivms of the Prime Minister's promises for children's stations." The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Theanos Fotio. Please, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u37	Mr President, one of the biggest problems facing our country today is the demographic problem. We see that in recent years there have been more deaths than births. What's that for? It is also because the government, which invokes its social policy, grants the first child EUR 50 mixed and the second child EUR 20.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u38	But, Mr. Panagoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u39	That's right, Miss Fotio. There's evidence I can get you next time, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u40	Get them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u41	It is 50 euros for the first child, Mr President, and 20 euros for the second child. I wonder, when he has a couple of kids, he's 55 euros clean. Here comes the worker, the low-payer, and he has two kids to take them to a nursery. There are no seats. My colleague, Manolis Synthrakis, rightly said what is happening and what was promised about a year ago, at the first SYRIZA Youth Conference, the Prime Minister. He said he'd be subsidized not only the third child,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u42	But what third?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u43	But no one has three children anymore. Two times, one by one is barely doing today, because we said the deaths are much more than the births. After two to three decades, if we do not take measures as a state, as a nation, as a state, the population of Greece will have shrinked to less than seven million. Promises made. And the Prime Minister and the Minister have been talking about new kindergartens. The performance, however, lasted well, Mr President, until the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour, Mr Dimitris Carellas, on August 31st, about twelve days ago and before the beginning of the day, admitted that about thirty-five thousand children were left out of the programme. They're 30, thirty-five thousand children left. Last year was less children. Not all kids get in, because we didn't manage to do the structures. But how many years do you want to do the structures, Mrs. Fire? You've been swinging our handkerchief in a while. It's been three and a half years. When are you gonna do the structures? When will you be in Opposition? Mr President, with regard to social policy in particular to education, the SYRIZA Government with its extreme right-wing partner has proved to be a government of allowances, custodians, floods and fires.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u44	Mrs. Fotio, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u45	Mr. Panagoulis, your end has surprised me. I did not expect you to adopt the rhetoric of the New Democracy. But I will respond calmly to the substance of your question. The child, Mr Panagoulis, is our care, not only because it is the future of the country, not only because it depends on the resolution of the country's demographics, but also because we believe that its origin should not determine its future, that is, poor is born, poor will die. We proved it, Mr. Panagoulis. The three announcements made by the Prime Minister at the SYRIZA Youth Conference were for the child's allowance - and I am glad you mentioned this because you are giving me the opportunity to reply to you - for nurseries and school meals. You have referred to all three and I will answer you. Firstly, within a year, Mr Panagulis - you are not well informed, but it is all right - we have increased the allowance of one child from EUR 40 to EUR 70, of the two children from EUR 80 who were at EUR 140 and went by saying. The result is that from EUR 650 million for family allowances, we reached EUR 910 million and not enough. In fact, where you were all telling us that we were cutting off the children's benefits, not only did we not cut them off and raised them, but something amazing happened. Because the new architecture is attractive - at last - for parents, while so far they have not been interested in the previous architecture and, secondly, because they are given digitally, without papers and they get the money every two months, for that is why in 2018 the families of eight hundred thousand who received the child's allowance increased last year to nine hundred thousand who will get it from this year and from a million four hundred thousand children who took it, we reached a million and fifty thousand children who will take it this year. So, in this area, the Prime Minister was right and we did so. In the second area, as far as school meals are concerned, we have reached a hundred fifty-two thousand this year. From 1 October school meals will be given to nine hundred and sixty-three schools in the country, with the aim of slowly giving them to all primary school children. Just as the Prime Minister announced, we did it. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] One more minute and I will close, Mr President. Thirdly, for day-care stations, Mr Panagoulis, the Minister for the Interior told you what we received, how much voucher they gave in 2014 - there were seventy-seven thousand and fifty-seven exactly - and how much we gave last year, because this year the process has not ended. It makes no sense to invoke false news and create a political polarization on the back of mothers and children. It doesn't make any sense. So last year we gave hundreds of eighteen thousand vouchers compared with the seventy - nine thousand vouchers we received. The increase was 50%! What happened? Did parents give birth to any more children? Oh, no. I'm telling you why you're telling us there's a big demographic problem. On the contrary, for the first time we changed the architecture of voucher and gave it to the unemployed and the poor woman. And that reveals the problem you've been hiding all these years under the table. So, all these years, until SYRIZA arrived, wasn't there the problem? Why did this matter explode? Secondly, for the money the Minister told you, more than 30% money and all from national funds. I won't repeat it. We are also emphatically declaring this step, in order to finish this specula, that all available places will be covered at municipal and private nurseries with the completion of the second phase with voucher, i.e. free of charge. Mr President, may I continue now or do so in my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u46	Secondary, Minister. Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u47	Mr President, the Minister did not respond to a key issue, the demographic issue. He never told us how much less births are made every year. Is that what's due? It is because of the economic policy pursued by the Government, as was the case with the Government of New Democracy. The incompetence, contempt, hypocrisy and analgesia you have repeatedly demonstrated, Minister, not personally, but the government with its extreme right-wing partner - which today at the press conference in Thessaloniki has threatened you once again to draw the carpet - as we are discussing today, which is a serious issue, for children and infantry stations, the various promises and fairy tales you have said at times, are right to give you the prize of the most incompetent government. You said something about the New Democracy. I've never had anything to do with New Democracy. You on many issues today are following the New Democracy policy and overcoming it, if you like. I don't want to be the advocate of the New Democracy. You even brought the FBI to welcome the president of the government in Thessaloniki. As Mr. Kremastinos will remember, the Prime Ministers went to Thessaloniki and at the airport they were waiting for their friends to greet them. Here was an army of FBI agents. There were hundreds of policemen all the way. Is this the most provocative Prime Minister? Madam Minister, I do not think you will be able to do what you have said to us, the vouchers and everything else. You're three and a half years of government. You could have made those infrastructures so no employee child, no unemployed child is out of childcare. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u49	Mr. Panagoulis, I am opposed to what you have said, because it is the kind of kindergarten. It's important. All Greece can hear us. And I want to focus there. We since 2017 with details per municipality - because we have certainly not been forty years a government to provide for the existence of nurseries throughout the country - made a record of all the municipalities. Thirty-three municipalities, therefore, have a surplus of positions from 0% to 100%, that is, they have more positions than they offer. Eighty-three municipalities have a discrepancy. So they give 100% to 200% less positions in the program. And forty-eight municipalities have a demand twice as much as the available positions, that is, they have over 200% less positions in the program. One hundred and sixty-one municipalities - because three hundred twenty-five municipalities are the municipalities as known - they have neither a single day station, nor one. And there, of course, the demand isn't recorded, because the moms know they don't have a baby station, so they don't apply. Therefore, the problem that we have found is a huge proportion of this part. So what did we do in January 2018? We called on the municipalities of the country, because they had given us, in conditions of great suffocation, 15 million euros to the Ministry of Labour for this purpose -15 million - and we said to them "We will give you 50,000 euros for every day or infantal station you will build, in existing buildings your own, or you will have rented it, to make changes in the internal or equipment - or 75 000 euros for two, respectively". Because, as you know, after EUR 75 000, Mr President, there is an international competition and we would be going after a hundred years. We had, therefore, calculated - and I am sorry that Mr Synthrakis left - four hundred structures with these EUR 15 million or ten thousand children. The municipalities responded. We made a law, made a C.T.A. to implement this. One hundred and four municipalities have responded, and today they are setting up two and a half thousand new posts. I'd like it to go faster, so that the municipalities can build ten thousand, as I thought they could. They cannot, because the procedure seems to be not easy, red tape. But this government has found this money. We'll get rid of it. It's 10,000 euros in 2018-2019, so much in 2019-2020 and so much. We're going to reach this desired number. Because, Mr Panagoulis, we have not closed our eyes to anything. We have no reason to close them. And what the Greek people will do is their job when their time comes. Now that you're saying that we won't be able to do anything, because we're going to leave and the others who will do everything, think about it again when you say it. We are therefore establishing these positions according to the capacity of the municipalities. But I would like to say this and end here, Mr President: every August, when the two phases of the programme are not finished, and it is well known that this huge social unrest and the enormous terrorisation of mothers, which do not reach them, are also suffering. Unfortunately, there is a repetitive political impulse that creates anguish for mothers. We'll do anything, and mothers know it. That is why we have increased our rates to respond to what we believe to be the alpha and the omega of child protection, i.e. kindergartens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department the issue of Thursday 13 September 2018, which reads as follows: QUESTIONS (Rules 29(1) and 130(8) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 38/7-9-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The risk of Elia staying outside the national motorway network, based on the Government's instruments on the many paths of Patras - Pyrgos". 3. The Question No 39/10-9-2018 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation with the student homes". 4. The Question No 36/7-9-2018 by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Restoration of frescoes of the Holy Church of Agios Ioannis Theologian Municipality of Acharon". 5. The 31/4-9-2018 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Evaluation and upgrading of children's camps in Draghole and Kastania of the Prefecture of Karditsa". 6. The Question No 33/5-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Was there any US involvement in the skeptical issue? " The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-11-S2-commons.u51	The meeting on Thursday 13 September 2018 at 9.30 p.m. is closed at 18.53 p.m. on the subject of the section's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
