ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question under number 1232/5-3-2018 of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: 'The investigations into loans to parties have been completed'. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, the government itself had expressed its intention to break the 'Third Triangle of Corruption', as it called it. We arrived in March 2018 - after a committee of inquiry - and the subject seems, on the basis of the journalistic information, to be at the last stage of judicial investigation. However, we have not seen anything else on the substance. We are listening to and seeing, I repeat, only journalistic information saying that in the next few days the proposals of the prosecutors for the responsibilities of political people and bankers involved in party loans arrive. This is yesterday's "KYRICATIKIKIKI KONTRANEWS", which says all the conclusion on maritime loans of EUR 400 million: "For a felony of New Democracy and PASOK and bankers". So is Gianna Papadakou, the well-known journalist at the “KOKINO”. I will also testify what she says about the litigation she says comes from the Financial Prosecutor and not from Mrs Toulupakis. However, there are other issues which I think the government should pay special attention and have this responsibility for action so that it does not record as passive an unsuccessful unsuccessful effort for society, which will be a cover-up. To be specific, even if it is true that the Prosecutor's conclusion does not finally relieve those responsible of the fraud against the public, is that enough to force Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Gennimatas, to return the sum of about 400 million euros borrowed by the wrong banks that forced the public, namely the Greek people, to recapture? Mr President, it must be heard here today in the House and throughout the country and this paradox, but it must be true. The PASOK after its mutation to Democratic Partnership acquired, he says, a new VDU and thus now travels through the slope into debt write-offs, since sharing among the partners only lets the borrowers withhold. However, I imagine that the new party, the Change Movement and if the government does not take any legislative initiative, Mr Mitsotakis will be in the vicinity. And who's gonna pay the marble? The Greek people. So I personally, Mr President and Minister, not only do I refuse to engage in any kind of silence in any kind of muddy deletion of the seashores, of course, and of the responsibilities, but I also believe that the government is also due here and now, as Papandreou said, to legislate so that those responsible do not manage to avoid justice but also to prevent the Greek people from paying for the broken and shredded shredded shredders of the lofts. I believe that I am not the only one in this Chamber or in the whole society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The flag of clearance, I know it's too heavy and you know it, Mr. Papagelopoulos, because you've been on your side lately. Allow you guys to move the finger, the ones who put it in the honey?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Nicolopole, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. But one of the whole people has been picking up this flag, waiting for years to find out who ate it and finally see the pimps returning the stolen ones, even if the villas and the dough must be auctioned. I hope you don't allow the story of party seafood to be another story with a glorious end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u6	Minister Papagelopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicolopoulos raises two questions with this timely question, namely whether the investigation has been completed - obviously the prosecutor's point of view is that there are criminal responsibilities against people involved in the granting of loans to the parties - and, secondly, whether there is a public prosecutor's proposal to refer to former ministers and officials of parties who do not return the loan and do not offer guarantees, as all borrowers do. The text of the current question shows that it is in the knowledge of the MP and all the readers of the publications that Mr Nikolaopoulos invoked that the prosecutors have not completed their actions. However, in reply to the timely question, I will repeat the self-evident thing that I have said many times, namely that the Minister responsible and myself, because of my prehistoric history in justice, do not intervene and I am not informed about the actions of the prosecutors and judicial authorities in cases in progress, despite the fact that I am extruded in preparations, consortia - internationally, indeed - to which I have been exiled. My position, but also all of the government - and indeed it is an unmoved position - is justice to complete its work unreserved and unaffected. That is what we are following and the results are already visible. All justice needed was to open up some sealed windows that some had meticulously sealed and lighted and aired. Now, as far as the two specific questions are concerned, I have to say: For the first of these questions, I can answer that we have requested information from the prosecutor's office, who has informed us of the fact that, as the investigation is at the stage of the pretext, the following: 'With regard to the content of the question that has been sent to us, we know that the relevant case-file which has been formed in our service is at the stage of the preliminary examination. As bound by Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we cannot provide you with any further information on this.’ That's just the answer of the prosecutor financial crime. It is well known that the public prosecutors have provided information on the course of cases investigated exclusively in the context of provisions deleting the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to ensure the effectiveness of their legal actions. It is therefore not permitted, in accordance with the law, to provide any information to anyone on the course of any investigations. As far as the second question is concerned, we are aware that the relevant directorate of our Ministry has informed us in writing that the proposal for referral back to the House until today on a matter relating to the granting of loans has not been sent to the House. So that's where we have to wait for the end of the prosecution investigations. It is known that the transfer of the case-file to the House through the Ministry of Justice is announced at the plenary sitting by the President-in-Office and we will therefore all know it at that time. In conclusion, I say to you that we have complete confidence in both the financial prosecutors and all those judiciary officials who respect their oath and in truly unfavourable circumstances do their part and duty self-evidently. I mean those judiciary officials who are not spared, who are not redeemed, who are not subject to pressure and trabuccalism, as we have seen recently. These prosecutors and judiciaries in general with the previous features that I described to you are the main allies not of the government, but of society, in order to further promote the relationship of trust between citizens and justice, which is sometimes tested by lack of respect and political or personal purposes of some. Fortunately, these are individual cases. I'd like to tell you something personal, Mr. Nicolopoulos. I do try on my side, but I also want to inform you and those who are trying to try on me the truths and the picturesque "gumbs" that I am pretty thick and I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u8	Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u9	All right, well, you know what people call it. But we too have confidence, Mr President, and Mr Minister, in justice, as we trusted in the Kaloudis findings, as twenty former ministers sent them to the stool. You know that, Mr. Papagelopoulos. But some others put it in the file. And Pepponi doesn't know where he's saying hello to us, 'cause Pepponi didn't make them. But do you know where he is? You know, Minister? You're smiling because you know where Mr. Musakiti is. I'm saying this so Mr. Mitsotakis can hear the little man where Mr. Mousakitis is, who is involved in this case. Mr President, I must remind you here that the loans are EUR 211 million to Mr Mitsotakis' party and EUR 186 million to the PASOK party. It is therefore a matter of EUR 400 million, as I said, which some people gave with a 'air', as the Psyracy said. "Air"! There had to be a fight to get this case out of the file. Mr. Papagelopoulos, I did not ask the timely question to put you in a difficult position. Ms. Papadakou, I think this is coming. And it doesn't come with "sandfootball". That's enough, now that this case is at last too, because that's the way it should be for all the Greeks. But I would like to tell you that only the practice of promulgating these parties will change the state, that they will function on an equal footing, but, on the other hand, they demonstrate this form of behaviour towards their loan, forgive me! You know, there's a moral conclusion that society has drawn. We are living right at the very time of the indiscriminateness of the status parties. This fact, however, has been brought into the river of depreciation by the entire political system. So it is enough to show, Mr President, the headline theme of the newspaper 'SECURITY REPUBLIC'. It's not SYRIZA's newspaper. It's the newspaper that supports the New Democracy. What's he saying? It says: "So "So SIEMENS" parties with 2% of each contract with the public". Where was that said? At Munich Peace Court: "Disclosures - shock in the judgment condemning Christofou". They took a bag of black money, they took borrowers, they had a party, and now they're turning back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I expect you to transfer your responsibility to the government. You know, Leon Tolstoy had said that gentleman is someone who pays his bills on paper, even when he knows he's been stolen. Now see the reversal: While the Greek people's money is stolen, the parties that have borrowed them circulate between us and represent the gentlemen. So there is an absolute need to get away from words and theories. We must also identify the sepsis and the guilty and assume responsibility. The money must be paid back, Mr. Papagelopoulos. That is why I think the debate today is looking forward to this, because people think we have forgotten about it, that we have covered it, that nothing has come out of the committee of inquiry. That is why, when he hears about committees of inquiry, he says that nothing is yet to come out. That's not true. That is the truth we all have to support until the end, because the moral conclusion must be that whoever puts his hand in honey or who does not account for the length of the bed and how much it reaches, will in the end pay and sleep on board.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u10	Finish, Mr. Nicolopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President. From the history of party seashores and all the stories of rot and corruption, not only are those who gave them, but those who took them. Fortunately or sadly, Mr Minister, the current government is also judged by a government, a government which alone has set the bar of the expectations of its citizens and will be judged by its results. After all, we are all judged. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u13	Just a phrase. We all know that the battle of good and evil is endless. The government will continue its battle, and whatever the result is, it will benefit the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the second question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neo-collection Training Centre", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Also, the fourth under number 1225/2-3-2018 topical question for the first cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Appropriate expenditure of EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The third under number 1153/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the fate of the cash reserves of "OLTH SA" of EUR 65,108.327,16 after the transfer of the majority of shares to private individuals?" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The fourth under number 1167/27-2-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To pay the former employees everything they are due to," will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The fifth under No. 1105/16-2-2018 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unscrupulous developments regarding the sale of S.A. “National” will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The sixth question under number 1112/20-2-2018, on the second question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition, Gregorios Stoyannides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Respecting the licensed number of jobs in casinos”, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The seventh question under number 976/5-2-2018 (Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Secur-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Secur-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-Second-A-A-A-A-Second-Second-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-Second-Second-A-A-A-A-Second-Second-A-Second-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-Second-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-Se-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A- And finally, the second question under number 2290/28-12/2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to advance the maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary in Heraklion (previous court building/Privatial court building)" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. We will now debate the third question by number 12665-6-3-2018, first question by the Member of Parliament Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health on the subject: 'When will a National Action Plan against Drugs be drawn up and approved?' Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for coming, and I mean it. I know that, indeed, your time is valuable. There's no sign of irony in that, I mean it. With a little surprise we saw at the end of January the Ministry's press release in which the drafting of a National Drug Plan is announced. And I say "surprise" for two reasons: One is that we know that there has been a National Drug Authority and that there has been a Committee on Design and Coordination since 2013. The second reason is that two unanswered questions, from the forty questions I have tabled, and I have not received an answer, were exactly the same topic in the Ministry: the role and action of the National Commission on Drugs, which since 2013 has been set up so far since the end of its mandate in a few months' time, no one knows exactly what it has done. So, my first question is exactly this: what has happened in the last five years, three of which concern your governance? Because from 2013 until today, we have no kind of process at all, as it turns out. This is a part of the question, if there is even a pre-process or there is a deliverable project on which the famous National Drug Plan will be based. If they have been done, if the annual reports provided by the law have been prepared as early as 2013, for 2014, for 2015, for 2017, and if they have been submitted to the Parliament. And above all, I would like you to tell us what the basic principles and prospects are from now on. How do we go from now on on about the strategic planning and development strategy of a National Drug Plan, as it is really necessary. We declare willing to cooperate at any level. Even at the level of Chiefs - at party level I mean - we can discuss, if you like. We are really willing to help and contribute to the establishment and development of such a project. But the big question is what we've done so far. That's the one. And the other is what we do from now on and on what needs we intend to move. It should be noted that I have only spoken for two minutes, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u17	My dear colleague, then, is indeed an interesting question. The field of dependencies is a very sensitive social field. The crisis has exacerbated the addictive behaviour of a part of society. We have emerging dependencies, not just classic dependencies, that is, drugs. Now we have an expanded range of alcohol - it is a great challenge for public health in the country - and we also have emerging dependencies, such as gambling and the Internet. Dependence is a complex multifactorial phenomenon and obviously requires holistic treatment, that is to say a coherent policy package for prevention, substitution, treatment, disarmament and, of course, social reintegration. There are public bodies - they are designated - that provide services throughout this spectrum and the truth is that these bodies have been doing this work quietly, reliablely and effectively for years. What existed as a great deficit - and you are right to detect - was a comprehensive National Action Plan, which could facilitate synergies and linkages between these structures, between these bodies. That's what we really miss. The truth is that in the previous period, what was prioritised for us was to ensure the functionality and survival of today's public bodies providing anti-drug services and, in general, against dependency. There was a very big effort. We tried to mobilize human resources. There was support with human resources. We have proclaimed eighty positions divided among the four main actors, namely the OkANA, the CEDEFOP, 18-North and PSY, which also has a matching structure. The truth is that the drafting of the National Action Plan went a little back. There is National Strategy 2014-2020. What remains is that the action plan should be more detailed and that it should not be just a meeting of each body's individual projects. I must say here that we have recognised that the institutional framework needs a reform. Law 4139, which was a good law, a progressive law in our view and in the institution of the National Coordinator, but also in the institution of the National Planning and Coordination Committee, had deficits that we want to deal with. We're in touch with the Justice Department. We have, at a very advanced stage, a process of institutional reorganisation in this landscape, which will also have, as a decisive element, an expanded approach to the concept of dependency. Law 4139 only focuses on drugs. And the National Commission and the National Coordinator are all about drugs. We want to give the enlarged approach, as I said before, and make these shapes a little more functional, not to have the involvement of too many ministries. Imagine that more than ten ministries participate in the National Planning Commission and the Interministerial Committee. That makes it very embarrassing and unproductive. We therefore want to emphasise, above all, scientific support with specialized scientists and people with know-how in this field and the possibility of achieving greater efficiency and flexibility in achieving the major one, which is synergy and a common design for the benefit of dependent man, the treated man, ensuring that today's structures are well managed and functioning, especially for their functional interconnection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u19	This is the third time that the question of what is happening with the National Center for Drugs remains unanswered. I don't disagree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u20	There is no national centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u21	The national authority, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u22	There's no national authority either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u23	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u24	There is a National Planning and Coordination Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u25	Excuse me, you're right. The national drug co-ordinator doesn't seem to get into the plan anywhere. I will not disagree with you on the new, modern treatment of dependencies as a whole. It is well known that the CECH has been developing such centres for the treatment of gambling, alcohol, smoking, etc. The question is, as you said, how they will be structured. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] One more minute, Mr President. I didn't hear any specific plan for the moment about how they're going to coordinate each other on this particular, KEY, OKANA, 18-NO, and how this whole story is going to happen. That's the one question. And because I want to be fair, it's true that you increased the OECD budget and grant. Although there has been a reference to the Committee on Social Affairs to the OECD report - over-optimistic, in my opinion - and it has been announced that the waiting lists have been used - and in fact they are being re-examined - the big question that arises from the figures from previous years is that, although grants are steadily increasing - and I recognise that this was necessary and are in your favour - if you see the variation in treatments, the figure is about 8,100 per year since 2013. As has rightly been pointed out, the OKANA was operating with a grant under the agency's payroll needs. However, even today the figures are the same. The simple division - the incremental index - costs per healed for 2013 2.200 euros, for 2017 the cost per healed is 3.350 euros. The number is the same. The waiting lists appear to be maintained to the same extent. The big question is: what are the differences, if there was even a qualitative upgrade of services and how is it reflected? That is why there seems to be no substantial difference in this respect except in increased funding, which I recognise has to be done. It seems that the changes, improvements, increase of Capacity - to use your favourite expression - and the efficiency and quality of the organism is not derived from anywhere. It would be a good job to see it at the level of the fact that it needs in a general context, as we have said, to see again how these agencies work, how effective they are and what exactly they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u26	And we, Mr Barriotta, are fully respectful of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u27	You've trained me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr Colleague, I explained that the priority in the previous period was to ensure the smooth functioning of today's structures and to ensure a framework for functional interconnectivity and cooperation between them. You know very well that in the past there have been years of friction between structures and dependencies that obviously had a different history, a different scientific approach, even for reasons of ideological differences. We consider that all structures are useful, all structures are necessary and there are addicts who can have proper care through all this range of services that can be provided. Many members of the committee had resigned and we had a re-recommendation. He was inappropriate for a long time. That's true. Now we are trying to restructure and reorganise. We have given as a central priority a framework for the operation of the private rehab centres, which are, unfortunately, working without a very clear framework, rules and control mechanisms. That, in our view, is a problem. We have also slowly taken the lead in the preparation of a national plan. This will go with the institutional reorganisation that I told you before. I hope that in the first half of 2018 we will have an updated law on dependencies as a whole, namely an amendment to Law 4139 and by making more flexible the organs to draw up this national plan, indeed, to go to a serious national plan that is necessary for the effectiveness of public dependency policies. As far as the central principles of this strategic planning are concerned, firstly, we want to have the maximum possible geographical coverage. Here the idea is to develop multi-powered centres which can house entities with different programmes and cultures at a common access and holistic attitude. We have anticipated funding from the current NSRP, from the regions' OPs, for this part. There is the idea of developing mobile facilities for accessing dependencies so that services can be accessed and in areas in the hinterland that have a difficulty of accessing them. We have the question of setting up two rehab facilities. There's only one public rehab unit right now in PNTH, Thessaloniki. We're going to do one in Jannah. There is an excellent job done by the "Hatzikosta" Hospital, which is a proposal to organize and operate a multi-powered centre in a building that was completed, but has never been used so far by the previous NRP. We will therefore have two rehab facilities: one in Yannina and one in Athens. There is the question of strengthening the services of psychosocial support and social reintegration. And there is also a great priority for groups of special sensitivity and special vulnerability, such as homeless people, pregnant women, immigrants and people with comorbidity, that is, people with mental illness and addictive behaviour. These are the target groups in the context of the drafting of this national strategy. Now, with regard to the part of the OECD that you have insisted on, I will say: there has indeed been a budget increase and you have made a mistake, because this budget support has been translated into additional services and I would say in more qualitative terms. At the moment we have two direct access units to operation in Athens in addition, which allowed the list to be zeroed a few months ago. There was a problem leaving doctors because there were...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u30	Five hundred are...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u31	Yeah, I know. It had almost zeroed the list, a list of two and a half thousand dependents waiting. Due to the departure of some doctors who were with a block, contractors, they came back, but the welfare is that we move quickly and in the next few years to cover in various ways, with contracts, perhaps even with a permanent call for these needs, so that we can have a definitive response to this issue. We have a very good score right now at European level. It says this in the European Observatory, EMCDDA, that Greece is one of the first countries in Europe that is curative - in whatever sense - user coverage. We have a very large percentage. More than 60% of users are in a form of treatment, approach, coverage in all types of programs. Also, OKANA has developed two intensive psychosocial support units. They're called FYROM. One is in Athens and one is in Patras which are units of increased standards that are actually supplemented with psychosocial support and with a view to reintegration. Two second opportunity schools run, one in Athens and one in Thessaloniki. Four new restoration units have also been developed in the province, Serres, Drama, Trikala and Tower. These units work, and I intend to visit the Serres unit in a few days. I would like to say that this investment has been translated into extra quantitative and qualitative - in our view - services and I think that that is what we need to do to all the other players, obviously, because the CEEC also plays a very crucial role. The Ministry of Health also has an administrative autonomy, but the Ministry of Health finances its budget as in the other structures. I think we do not disagree that there is a need to speed up the process of drawing up a coherent national action plan, which will not, as I said before, be a stirring up of each individual body's plans but serves a single logic that will facilitate citizens' access and universal coverage of their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. The first question under number 1260/6-3-2018, the first question of the first cycle of MP, Thessaloniki, the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former Karatsiou camp", will not be debated due to an impediment of the questionable MP. The first question under number 1264/6-3-2018, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Health, on "Without pediatrician for the last two and a half months, the Aegina Health Center - Deficiencies and ophthalmologists and ORLs", will not be discussed due to the invasion of the honourable Member. The first question under number 956-11-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Building a new teaching course for the Special Training and Training Laboratory (EEAEK) Mystra" will not be discussed because the Member is satisfied with the Minister's written response. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Georgios Koumoutsakos is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 13 March to 15 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u33	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 6/26-10-2017 by New Democracy MPs Olga Kefaloniann, Charalabo Athanasiou, Savva Anastasiadis, Ioannis Andrianou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antonios, Photinis Arabatzis, Anna - Misel Asmakopoulou, Eleftherios Ayggenaki, George Vagios, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Constantine Vlassi, Mavroudi (Maki) Vorides, Sophia Vultesis, Georgios Georgios, Stergiou, Jannakis, Vasilios Jogakas, Konstantinos Giulekas, Athanasios Davaki, Christos Dima, Anastasios (Tasus) Lisbon, Athanasios Kavada, Nikitas Kaklamanis, Stavanda, Stavrou Kalaklamani, Kalannis Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgios Karasmani, Georgios Karipidis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Simos, Kedicoglou, Christos Kella, Nikos Keramos, Ioannis Kefalonianis, Emmanouil (Man) Konsolas, Konstantinos Konkogeorgios, Konstantinos Kokodimos, Georgios Koumoutsakou, Andreas Koutsoubas, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Theodoras (Dorah) Bakoyannis, Christos Boukorou, Athanasios Boura, Vasilios Economou, Helenis Raptis, Konstantinos Skolikios, Christos Stelios, George Stylos, Konstantinos Tasulas, Constantou, Constantinisianos Khstantou, Constantinisiasiadis Tsiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasia, Greece, Iogisiadis, Iovosiadis, Iovosiasiasiasiadis Tiris, Greece, Iodis Tiris, Iovosiasilisiasiasiasiasiasiasos Tiris, Greece, Greece. The speech is the first questioning Member, Congressman I of Athens, New Democracy, Mrs Olga Kefaloniann, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the important subject we are discussing today, and after finally the Minister decided to come to Parliament, allow me a political comment on what is happening today in our country. We are experiencing another day of political zombies, the deep darkness of a government that has set up systems of interoperable with all the materials from the past that it once conquered. The moral advantage of this government is drowned through constant media interventions and attempting to manipulate the press, business friends with privileged relations, politicisation of football, constant interventions in justice. Last night's pictures, which make around the world, are injured once again. They give the message that Greece is a bourgeoisie democracy, with a government incapable of imposing, incapable of applying rules, defending the rule of law, defending institutions and values. But that's not what Greece was doing. There's also a bright side, that of work, those who fight with nails and teeth standing up. There is the Greece of creation, of the spirit, of optimism. In Thessaloniki - I was there yesterday - there was the darkness of all these unpleasant events. But there was also the light of art from the International Documentary Festival, the light of civilization. That's why we're here to talk about this hope today. Madam Minister, today's question concerns the unprecedented inertia of the Ministry of Culture. For once, we are concerned about the complete inability of the Ministry's leadership to go ahead with a series of important issues and problems that accumulate every day. Let's start with the fundamentals. A sector as extensive as that of culture requires two conditions to be sustainable and also an efficient resource for the benefit of the country: It requires organisation and it requires funding. As far as the organization is concerned, you've run tests and failed. Do you realize, from ignorance of administrative reality? The result in any case is devastating. In both cases responsibilities must be sought. The new Agency of the Ministry, the public manager of the cultural reserve, introduces the systematic dismantling of the central mechanism. You denounced the old organisation that applied until 2014 as an ‘anachronistic’ and ‘non-functional’. You incorporated him into your opposition speech. And now, what have you achieved? You merged the inventions of antiquities with criteria that concern most of them in favour of specific party friends and less in a functional redesign of the regional services of the Ministry. You abolished parts of the central service and the Ministry removes its central coordinating role in matters such as the preservation and security of monuments. The new organizational schedule served only on one request: it created a hundred and fifty additional positions of responsibility for your party clientele and applied it only in this respect. All changes to the posts of other servants are still outstanding. This organizational chart leads to an administrative Vabel, with all the expected results, with disastrous consequences for the cultural sector, a Corfu for the informal, non-institutional partners of the Ministry, aiming at a weak ministry, to undertake the management of the cultural reserve. Madam Minister, all the supervising bodies of your ministry are showing you a rapid downturn. In particular, I mention the Athens Concert Hall, the State Theatres - which are still pending the locations of directors - the State Music Ensembles that have been sentenced to extinction, the Polypathic Greek Cinema Center, the PPC and so many others. The Athens Concert Hall, identifiable location of the city, has been in a functional descent since its management was assigned to the Ministry. Its public funding is not sufficient for its maintenance and development. There is no strategic plan to ensure its viability. He's in danger of flirting in spite of the valuable efforts of his staff. The museums, the visiting monuments and all the cultural chambers operating under the supervision of your Ministry are in a similar fate, both at the same time and at the same time in the face of the challenges of the 21st century and the needs of the country. The top of the cases of uncertainties and incompetence in management and the administration is the case of the EFF. It is perhaps the most valuable tool available to the Ministry of Culture and Sport to achieve its objectives, especially those who serve to make use of the cultural reserve and to find resources for its further promotion. Common sense dictates the upgrading and modernisation of the EDF. In fact these should be the priorities of the Ministry's political leadership. But the situation is constantly complicated and, unfortunately, valuable resources are lost. Administrations are changing undisturbed complaints. The EFF shall be devoid of an organisational programme, shall be subordinated and vital services. Here, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we also have the comicotragic that the new Deputy Secretary of State for Culture - incidentally a party compost, which actually entered to control the Minister - was carved by the Minister's decision of the Board of Directors of the EDF in the summer and was rewarded by the Prime Minister with the position of the State Secretary. Minister, funding for the Ministry of Culture and Sport from the EDF's available for 2017 amounted to 17 million euros. Where did this money have been invested, while the archaeological sites - we all know - were backing up? Within 2018, funding will amount to approximately 25 million. At the moment, however, archaeological sites lack the necessary staff to cover key functions such as safety, cleanliness, necessary supplies and the maintenance of the environment. And all this happens when the tourist season starts in a few weeks. Who's responsible for this? How will this money be made available? Why don't you use them? What's to blame and you can't program the self-evidents? Since 26 February, even the museum shops do not work, because you have not taken care of the necessary staff in time. In our recent visit to Delphi ten days ago, the sale of the Delphi Museum was closed and this is when the city hosted a large international conference. In previous years and until the end of 2015, valid programming was self-evident and recruitment of prison personnel ended in time and ensured good operation in archaeological sites and museums of the country. The summer hours of visitability of the archaeological sites and museums in the country we all know it starts on April 1st. The recruitment process of the necessary staff shall not be completed before the Easter holidays. The archaeological sites and museums will therefore remain closed in the tourist regions. This means defamation of the country and loss of valuable revenues for the second consecutive time, and you as the head of the Ministry are scandalously not. For the NSRP, we have been placed on several occasions - we will come back today - to the unjustified delay in the absorption of funds from the NSRP 2014-2020. The administrative chaos you have created does not favour the selection and integration of projects in the NRP. It is very little the projects that have been integrated in relation to the former NRP, but because of continued delays absorption is slow and there is a risk of reversal. This delay also draws together the Athens projects, and unfinished outstandings from the previous financial period are being decommissioned. In particular, the Museum of Greek Folk Art, the National Gallery, the Megaro Tsiller - Loverdou, the Saviour Transformation Church in Plaka, the Archaeological Register, the digitalization of mobile monuments, the new Archaeological Museum of Alexandroupolis, the new Archaeological Museum of Chania and the Polycentric Museum of Ages. Without central planning and coordination, these projects shall be precarious in terms of their implementation. The same is noted in projects financed by regional operational programmes. The regions have accelerated to integrate the Ministry's proposals into their programme, but the resources remain unsettled and inactive. Responsibility for this situation is entirely borne by the Ministry's leadership because it is unable to coordinate its services. The delay recorded in the registered projects has led to the transfer of fifteen projects from January 2015 to the new financial period 2014-2020, reducing the funds available for new projects. And all of this is important additions to the strengthening of the cultural reserve and there is no way that they will be financed by public funding. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's deficit management is causing economic bleeding. Despite official assurances, it was not possible to apply the online ticket to the archaeological sites and museums of the country. The state loses a lot of revenue and the visitors of the locality of culture are disappointed by suffering. At the same time, freeway tickets are rising vertically without criteria and without effective control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, if I may, Mr President, please. The canisters of the most visited sports areas have been closed during the previous tourist season and will probably remain for a second consecutive year. The only thing that is stable is the loss of income for the state. And yet, you are announcing an official increase in ticket revenues when the free will increase by 61% compared to the 2016 season. The increase in revenue is misleading because it results from doubling the cost of tickets. Another very important issue is this. Have you dealt with the expropriations of the EDF? Do you know that huge sums have been paid to private individuals without the necessary decision of the Ministry of Finance to update prices? For the Athens Festival. According to official statements, the festival was profitable at the end of 2017, with a surplus of 700,000 euros. From you we've taken the evidence. In fact, 700,000 do not result from performance gains, but from a reduction in operating costs. Expenditure on the implementation of the artistic programme amounted to 4.230,000 euros, while revenue from the performances amounted to 1,200,000 euros. So how does profitability turn out? Is that how you count the revenue? Have you evaluated the performance of the festival, but also of any other supervised body that has to provide revenue for the State? My colleagues will talk about Amphipolis. I would like to close with the issue of cultural diplomacy, because at a time when the country needs a good witness out of the way, the Ministry's leadership leaves all opportunities behind and strengthens all possibilities for exercising cultural diplomacy. The Minister herself raised the issue of the Parthenon sculptures, ignoring the real situation and eventually creating more questions for the parties involved. With great importance, too, the Ministry announces events in the exercise of cultural diplomacy, but lacking planning. They don't plan, they don't have action, they don't have a target. What was the official programme of the year of cultural exchanges in Greece - China? How do the Elefsina 2021 issues go? What exactly is scheduled for the European Year of Cultural Heritage 2018? Obviously, the policies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport are confidential. Therefore, a dead end to the Greek cinema and support for Greek producers. Neutral to the ESDP. A dead end to the Thessaloniki metro, the timetable of which becomes unclear, after the undecided management of the findings at the stations being created. A dead end is the case of the National Gallery, so Athens will be the only capital of Europe to be deprived of a national gallery. The National Archaeological Museum, the only one in the world with authentic exhibits and a list of the topics - victims requiring immediate solutions, but referred to the biennial, is growing. A dead end and the National Museum of Contemporary Art. And when we ask when it will finally work as a museum and not as a place for organising cultural events...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Kefaliannis, please complete, nine of your colleagues follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u37	Just a second. ...and at what stage is the absorption of the Niarchor Foundation's donation? Unfortunately, all the good additions that were registered until 2015 in the area of culture are in a time-lag and the account of your failed term does not stop here. I could go on for a long time, but time won't allow us. The rest, the dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers - attending them from the 2nd General High School of Zakynthos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are controlling the Ministry of Culture for inertia and for failure to coincide with the messages and needs of the times. The Greek Ministry of Culture is not a random ministry. It could be the koruna of the country's development, cultural and even diplomatic pursuits, if we were to use it properly and if we did not regard it as part of a political prestige, exile for some states, which we must set ourselves somewhere. In 1957, in the first UN political committee, in the most critical UN committee, the Turkish spokesman, the famous diplomat Selim Sharper had accused Greece of great idealism and a desire to regain, implementing the Great Idea, by military means in Asia Minor. It was when the Cyprus issue was boiled to the UN. The Greek Foreign Minister, having praised Selim Sharper for having made a brilliantly perversion speech, admitted that Greece, in fact, is interested in realising the Great Idea, causing a discomfort at the audience, in order to supplement immediately after this embarrassment that "we are aware of the Great Idea, now, not as a territorial form, but as purely cultural form". "And to prove to you," he said in 1957, Minister, then Greek Foreign Minister, Evangelos Averov, "who is the Great Idea of Greece, who is purely cultural, imagine today a country should be awarded for the best presentation - say - of an opera. The first prize would certainly take Greece, because the director of the orchestra would be Metropoulos, soprano would be Maria Callas, who would then be in the middle of it. Depth would be Moschona of Metropolitan Opera of New York and tenor the Passover of the opera of Milan." The reference of these names at the time shows that our country, and then, but now and now, always has a rich cultural reserve of monuments and personalities, which could properly exploit Greece in an unprecedented advancement, which has to do with culture, not only the ancestralism but also the patriotism of modern culture, modern international cultural performance. Today the Ministry of Culture has from the SYRIZA Government - to use archaeological term - is registered. There are secondary findings, which, after photography, because you cannot maintain them or register them, are recurred. Sometimes, there is also the contour, which is another type of blockade, where I suppose it will be the next stage, so that one cannot approach and admire the country's cultural stock. However, the potential of Greek culture, especially today when the country is economically kneeled in the development sector, is very challenging. In 2014, the Ministry of Culture prepared a study, the findings of which show, by studying 2,3 billion projects in the last fourteen years before 2014, that investment in culture of 1 million represents over five years in jobs and economic growth more than three times. In other words, it pays 3.4m euros. The krone, the pioneering, the signifiers of the cultural landscapes, the cultural findings of the country are obviously the spaces of UNESCO, the eighteen points that have emerged, thanks to a very good advance, which has been made, with the last of Philips. And yet, we see these points, these sites, these flags of Greek culture have been abandoned and proof of this is that even in Philippi, which is the last entry in the UNESCO table, the projects envisaged in the studies on the basis of which they were approved, only two technical bulletins were made in 2018 from a number of projects and a host of papers, which should have been drawn up. The imminent integrations in the monuments of UNESCO, Knossos, Spinalonga, Nicopolis and a network of ancient theatres have been completely abandoned. The same thing has been abandoned by the Ministry, Minister, and the integration of the Zagori region of Ioannina, where Ioannina were recently. To integrate Zagori as a cultural and environmental landscape of YNESCO I speak! The universe and the Ministry of Culture has been abandoned. A role has been convincingly denounced, which is due to him and which is highly charming, and which should have been taken over as a whole today, and the year of the world cultural heritage - and no one knows - in 2018, which has been declared this year by the Greek Presidency in the New Democracy Government. This year, therefore, all the initiatives accompanying it have been completely abandoned and as a result the Ministry of Culture is now building up on its regular budget, but too many opportunities have been lost to highlight this primacy of Greece in the field of culture. You have abandoned the signifiers of culture, the monuments of UNESCO and you have abandoned the programs of the period 2014-2020, so that you have only achieved seventy or seventy two memberships after a hundred seventeen proposals, when the previous programming period eventually included sixty projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Tasoula, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President, because I shall keep the second. So there is nothing to suggest, and I would ask you very much, that you take our question as a last resort, as a stumbling-up, as a grievance, as a complaint, but not a form of opposition benefactor, to mobilise, Madam Minister, something envious that you have in your hands and which will not in a moment be envious, but will be pathetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I will use all three minutes of my dentistry if I may. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to follow one of the best orators of the Greek Parliament, so I will ask for your tolerance for what I am about to say. I think we all agree that there is a national need at last to understand in the political world that there are some issues that go beyond the sterile party conflict, and that, above all, also applies to the area of culture. Unfortunately, the current government does not want to consult on any issue of culture. But there is also something worse than that, that this government puts politics, that is, micro-political purposes, above culture. And here you will allow me to stand on two occasions, condensing, if you like, the pathogens of modern Greece. The first case is that of Amphipolis, which hurts us twice the Serres. When Tymvos Kasta, the then government of Antonis Samaras, aware of the importance of this monument, followed a responsible attitude, a attitude that would keep every serious state. And what did he do? He did the obvious, i.e. strengthened the efforts of the archaeological group at the time. However, SYRIZA was then in an anti-immemorial, populist paraxism, with the constant opposition tactics of pronouncing each issue on political confrontation and with this tactic of the structural opposition attempted to reduce the importance of archaeological discovery. We all remember that the findings have attracted publicity worldwide, but they have led within the country to become the subject of discussion and division. At the same time, of course, none of us have had a serious debate in this Chamber or even in the country about what we need to do in Amphipolis from now on and how we can show and exploit such a great monument. Later, however, there was something worse. The SYRIZA government when it came to power, when SYRIZA won the election and took over the fates of this country, showed an incredible idealism and instead of recognising the global scale of Amphipolis, it showed disgrace over the monument itself. As if Tumphus had a party identity that drags with him over the centuries. For three years the monument has been completely left to its fate. And I explain: The study from Aristotle and the Democritus ceased to be funded and interrupted. Integration of the NSRF for the EUR 1.5 million for a relatively small amount after last July's government vatorium came late, but nothing has gone ahead yet. The development study and proposals of the wider region, drawn up at that time by the Municipality of Amphipolis and submitted to the then Minister, Mr Tasoula, I am sure they are also forgotten in a locker. I wonder: Is it possible for a government to be so blinded by a micro-group empathy, by an ideal in this matter? Can we not even understand the obvious, the crucial national role that Amphipolis' discovery of the current Macedonian issue could play internationally? And yet, things have to be done and they can be done differently. The major in the area in the case of Amphipolis, to which Mr Tassoulos referred, is the creation of a development model for the archaeological site, which can act as a lever for growth in economic, tourist, cultural and educational terms. We need what we say a master plan, we need an integrated grid of actions, but first the emergence of the archaeological find, so that it becomes a visit as soon as possible and open its doors to the general public. In particular, then, we have not come here to only opposition to you. We have come here to make specific proposals to you, because our side of this school of political thought honors you. We therefore propose firstly to establish a special spatial and urban plan for development with respect for the architectural landscape and the environment. And I will bring you here, for example, of Vergina, which can be used as a double compass, for example, in terms of the use of the archaeological site, but also in terms of the use of the surrounding area. Secondly, improvement of roads, so that we upgrade the nodes of Egnatia and Mesolakia, so that the monument can be accessible. Thirdly, strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, with tax, insurance and other incentives, so that traditional and stylish guesthouses can be created, not like those of Vergin, without insulting the architectural landscape of the region. A proposal made by the Development Society of Serres "ANESER" and the Municipality of Amphipolis is to reconstitute what we call "the lake Kerkinitis", so that small tourist ships can approach the area, the creation - if you want - of low-cost infrastructure in the natural port of Amphipolis, so as to connect this ancient port to Tymvos Kasta and also the promotion and use of other important sites and monuments in the region, such as Splaio Alistrati - one of the largest in Europe - the Monastery of Timios Prodromos and other monuments in the surrounding area. You know, every time I see Tumbo Casta in person, I think that in any other country his treatment would be completely different. It is therefore a challenge for modern Greece that the emergence of this monument as a whole and an opportunity to show now that we can, in principle and in large terms, set targets beyond political controversy and achieve them. The second example I would like to mention is those ancients that were found during the work on the metro of Thessaloniki and more specifically on the Venizelos and Agia Sophia stations. We all know that some years ago the antiquities that had been found in Venizelos, at Venizelos station under construction, had caused enormous inconvenience, enormous noise and great division. In the decision of the then competent authorities to raise the ancients temporarily, and after construction of the station, 85% of them were relocated, as was the case with the Constitution and other stations in Athens, many were opposed, first and foremost - unfortunately - by Mr Boutaris, the mayor of the city. 'So important ancient', Mr Boutaris said at the time, 'not moved'. The Municipality appeals to S.T.E., which after years what does it do? He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: Meanwhile, new antiquities, much more important than archaeologists, come to light at the construction station of Agia Sophia. The authorities finally consider that these antiquities should be cut off and reassigned. So what did we do in four years? We have just lost four years and so finally the multipathy of the metro project, with the main responsibility this time - and I am sorry to say it - the Mayor, Mr Boutaris, is going back three to four years and the project budget is escalating, since only for archaeological excavations have already been spent, according to estimates, around EUR 140 million. I wonder in this Chamber who will finally apologize for that. And by the way, Minister, let us make a comparison, although it is not very specific: For the ancients in the metro of Thessaloniki, 130 million euros have been budgeted, and even 1.5 million euros have been made for Amphipolis. Shouldn't we once put some priorities? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have used two simple examples showing how critical civilization is in our homeland, crucial for development, crucial for tourism, as the previous speakers have said, for foreign policy, but also crucial for the daily lives of citizens. It is time that we all realise that in the political world, and first of all you who have the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. When we talk about culture, when we talk about our ancient heritage, they don't have micro-party purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantine Giulekas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are talking about culture today. I regret, however, that, unfortunately, this is where we have to criticise. Madam Minister, you, especially man who serves art and culture in your capacity, know that culture in this place has always been a place of meeting, a place where we were all together. I don't have to say much. Do you want me to remind you of a great cultural event like this, the Olympic Games? Others took over, we as government arrived in the last phase and organized the Games. There was a consensus, because it was a huge event, where we met there, there was no controversy. Let me remind you of other cases: the major conferences we had in Delphi. The Copyright Act: Greece was the black sheep of the whole world in the field of copyright, and in 1993, Law 2121/1993 on copyright was passed, with Dora Bakoyannis Minister for Culture, with all the amendments that the opposition had put forward to be accepted, precisely because we wanted to have a modern legislative framework that would take us before an issue that we had gone far behind. And that's where we met. I am sorry, but I see that unfortunately SYRIZA is not using what he should use: at least the bridge of culture so that we can all meet together in this field. We therefore make it clear that culture is an absolute priority for the New Democracy. It's not a question of money, Minister. It's mostly a matter of priorities. I come to the matter very quickly, because our relevant department, Mrs Kefalayannis, made a general reference to all issues and the previous ones also raised a number of issues. Because I come from the Greek north, I will refer to the subway of Thessaloniki. I have already heard the report by Mr Karamanlis. The most important metro antiquities found in the contribution of the Egnatia and Venizelos roads are still kept with sheetins and the rainy waters enter. Otherwise, it is a very important finding that, as Mr Karamanlis noted, the metro works went back three and four years to decide what we are going to do and Thessaloniki has suffered a huge traffic infarction! There are other important topics: Studies. I have addressed to you personally and to your predecessors too many questions as Members of the Thessaloniki Parliament, as former member of the State of Culture of the New Democracy. What about storage, maintenance, displaying of metro antiquities? Have you decided that all this huge wealth - not just for Thessaloniki, not for Macedonia, but for Greece all - will be exposed? You know - rhetoric is the shape, of course you know it - that all metro findings are and are kept in containers? Do you know that 2013 ended the last contract with the anthropologist, who studied the anthropological findings, and today there are no anthropological studies on what we find in the metro work? On all these issues, Minister, it has never been answered on your part, I mean as the Ministry of Culture, where we are. Now we're going to St. Wisdom Station. Very important antiquities were found. It was modified, the station was significantly limited in the end to maintain the country's archaeologists, as archaeologists say. The prediction to create an extensive archaeological site in the heart of the city, which is next to the oldest temple, Acherchette, and next to Agia Sophia, and the two very important cultural monuments, finds us all in accord. But where are the studies, which provide for what will happen? When are we going to move on to this? It's purely your responsibility. It is about the archaeological research and the decision of the Ministry of Culture on how to report all these important findings. There's nothing else. Furthermore, because we are talking about Agia Sophia, in the early excavations in 2012 of the main shells of the Agia Sophia station a very large part was revealed, close to the seventy meters, of ancient Egnatia, Decumanus maximus, the most important roadblock of the ancient city. Thessaloniki has the privilege of being a city, which, for two thousand three hundred years, is moving right on the axes, which was moving when it was first built. And of course, depending on the periods of acne or decline, we also find important findings, which show us when Thessaloniki was in very high periods of acne and when it was in periods of decline. Then the Central Archaeological Board approved the secondment of the road, repositioning it inside the station. Despite the discussions held at the Central Archaeological Council a year ago, regarding its reposition and the proposals for its final position, we have so far not learned what the solution has been found. What exactly are you going to do? No one's ever told us anything. Of course, here we must note the great contrast that exists: in the case of Venizelos there was the decision not to extract the ancients - good to remain there, because it was finally a solution, but we had a huge delay - and in the case of Agia Sophia they were seconded and repositioned. I do not understand why there are two standards in similar cases. In any case, however, that is a matter for archaeologists. What have you decided on all this? Why don't you tell us? Shouldn't Thessaloniki know? And of course, beyond that, there are other issues. I would like to talk very quickly, Minister, about archaeological sites and, above all, about museums. I am referring to the thorny issue of the EFF, the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations. What's the design, what are you doing with it? Closed sales. You heard Mrs Kefaliannis earlier about the Delphi Museum. In museums, for one thing, where there are generally closed rooms. If possible in Greece of culture our museums have closed rooms! ‘Towards the sales, the shelves, some random exhibits and from there on, no programming at all. There is no computer record of revenue, no digital recording of visitors and there is no more than what your Government had been advertising since Mr. Xydakis, since June 2015, the famous “electronic ticket”. So, we don't even invest in culture? And all this money, which is finally derived from various cultural resources and which are intended for these purposes, why are they not given for them, which we all point out are very important? Because we talked about museums very quickly - because I'm trying to make a very brief reference - I want to talk about the National Museum of Contemporary Art, which is really a modern shame. If possible, such a jewellery, has not worked in its totality, and even on an axis that now with the Faliikos Delta and the new Acropolis Museum, it can truly be a great cultural walk and a great cultural axis, unfortunately, to be in service! I am not going to talk about Tumbo Casta, because Mr Karamanlis mentioned earlier. I would like very quickly, Minister, by closing down - and because I spoke about museums, which are a first-class opportunity for cultural diplomacy - to ask what you have done to that end. What is your proposal for culture as a whole? Today and because, as I told you, I come from Northern Greece, Skopje questiones and navigates Greek history. Albania, for its part, presents Greek findings as Albanian. In Sofia I myself visited the National Archaeological Museum, where the stolen objects from the twenty-five are found, which even say they come from Greece. They have the inscription "Kosciche", which no one can understand and translate that it is from the 20th century. There are too many findings, which have Greek inscriptions on them and say, of course, the tour guides are the "an ancient Bulgarian monuments". They even add that the Bulgarians then used the ancient Greek writing. What do we do on our side? Should we not take advantage of a huge advantage which our country has: culture? Should there not be a national policy? Shouldn't there be a design? Should there not be a policy of cultural diplomacy, that is, mild politics, through our museums? Have you planned something? Is there a permanent exhibition in various museums? Is there anything that can advertise Greece culturally everywhere and this thing, multiplierically, can bring the results, which we all want? I'm telling you this, why? Because, while you are not doing anything, that is, not the official state, too many bodies are making considerable efforts. I will report to you the Onasios Centre of Greek Studies at the University of New York, the Hellenic Centre of Culture in Paris, the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice, even the Painting School of Constantinople, organize conferences. Over the next few days, a conference on Theotokas is being organized in Istanbul, by a very gifted man, the Director of the Painting, Mr. Yiannis Demirtzoglou. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Should the official state, Greece, not follow these examples? Shouldn't he do something? What's your proposal? What is the proposal of the culture we have? Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Giuleka, the tritology is over, which doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I don't want to talk about the Theatrical Museum, because this is where I break open doors. You come from this place, you know them better. I just want to say that I'm honestly ashamed of it because it was found down in the trash, along with mice waste, the letter of Nikitaras to Papapless in 1823, I think, which he was saying to make a theater, Jamie in Nafplio, then. She was thrown on the floor, as thrown away is everything inside the Theatrical Museum, where our cultural heritage is sinking and destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Giuleka,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I shall end. Wait a minute or a second, so I can close my word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u50	Don't give up on me, because I'm hypersensitive, and I might get off the Chair if I'm unnecessary. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u51	No, you're not unnecessary. I'm telling you, I'll be done right away. I heard you and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u53	I think, Minister, SYRIZA's party suit doesn't suit you. It's too narrow. Take advantage of your quality as a man of art and indeed make culture this place, which will bring the exception - if you like - to the rule followed by the SYRIZA Government to make culture a place of meeting. We're here, if you'd like us to propose some things for us. We're ready to work together if you want to do that. We are sorry, but we see that the government is not in such a mood. He's probably using culture to take care of 'the other side'. Look at all actors and all institutions, all heads, who have been placed by the SYRIZA government, are all friends to the SYRIZA. And that's all I think it's helping to draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, just after your ministerial duties were taken over, at the end of 2016, during a timely question debate here in this House, I had expressed my hope that you, a man of culture, will put an end to the cultural unrest, which had to do with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's "projects and Days" in relation to Amphipolis. I pointed out that we hoped for an end to the ideological and narrow party governance of the most brilliant sector in our country, culture, by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which obviously considers as civilisation only what is found on SYRIZA governance, leaving Amphipolis on the margin, which was, of course, politically renounced, as in the last three years, that you have been ruling, not because it was not entirely important and important - regardless of the identity of the deceased - but because it was unfortunate to discover about the former New Democracy rule. We are talking about a governance that has systematically and in every way undermined, over the last three years, this super-historic historical and cultural monument, on the one hand, by its dating, that it is not Macedonian. I wonder today, Minister, how all those who questioned the Greek monument, today that the unscrupulous and perishing moods of the Skopje are more timely than ever. I wonder how all of these people feel when the scientific community is pooled, excavators and positive scientists - geologists, statics, seismologists - explicitly and unequivocally said that the monument dates back to the last quarter of the 4th century BC, a position officially published for a six-month period, a position that Mr Gregory Chokas repeated yesterday at the Archaeological Conference of Thessaloniki. This is a governance that undermined the monument, of course with its total abandonment, both at the level of continuation of the excavation, but mainly at the elementary conservation and protection projects. Since then, Minister, it has been fifteen months, 15 more lost months for Amphipolis and the flagship burial complex, fifteen months, spent on a trip - you will allow me to describe it - in Amphipolis on 11 May 2017, where you came, you have seen and left. It was a visit, which, unfortunately, remained deeply engraved in our memory, for that terrible folding of yours in the dating of the monument, for which you initially stated that it was Macedonian, but then, in order not to mislead your companions, you made a press release and said that there is a sense of Macedonianity. Of course, there you have been able to advertise the projects of the NRP 1.5 million euro. Of course, it followed the 'cass' of rejecting the ESRB dossier, like the other four dossiers, from the Region of Central Macedonia, due to the immunities of the project and serious deficiencies in the completion of the studies. You have attempted, of course, to make this fiasco a deficit of understanding, as you said, by the Ministry of Culture and the Region of Central Macedonia, without taking any responsibility at all, consuming and fighting the whole society there in Amphipolis and, of course, Macedonia, as to whether it will be adopted at the end of the day. Adopted December last year. You are now coming to advertise your cultural footprint, essentially by caring for the money of the NSRF, and even the money, the 1 million, the INTERREG, which, of course, as you well know, has been prepared by the Municipality of Amphipolis and the relevant contacts with the Bulgarian side. Also, Minister, you should admit that from the INTERREG programme only EUR 87,600 relates to walking routes around the Kasta hill. At the same time, Minister, when the previous government and the former ministers - I see Mr Javara and Mr Tasulas - had also made available from their ministries, but also from other ministries EUR 580,000 to finance the Amphipolis, when no one believed what treasures the Macedonian land contained in its hands. I would like to stress this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just gonna need a minute. I call for your tolerance, Mr President, because I want to use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u56	Are you going to take the dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u57	Just give me a minute, if you can. I'm stressing this to you, why? Minister, from the Archaeological Resources Fund, which finances the Ministry of Culture, you received in March 2017 EUR 17 million as the Ministry of Culture. I wonder: Didn't 1 million find it available for Amphipolis from these 17 million - and without any dissent - when you gave 800,000 euros to the Imathia Antiquities Agency for the Ottoman bath in Veroia? You have done well, and you have given it, but there will be a proportionate equality, Minister, for such an exquisite monument. I'll come back to my dentistry. I would like to hear, Minister, after the 'forty waves' which the PSE has passed, at last what is the timetable. When will work begin? Because the heavy Macedonian winter has, unfortunately, fallen on the back of this burdensome monument. When will work begin? Will people be hired in the area to work in the NRP? On what criterion? Tell us the exact timeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr. Ioannis Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry, too. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin with the events in football. So today we are living another black day for Greek football. Such hours, of course, great words do not help. What is for granted, however, is that targeted initiatives are needed to strengthen credibility, justice and confidence in the rules. Greek football or it will attract families back to the platforms or it will not break out of today's stall. During my term of office in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, I had taken the initiative to draw up a new sport law on equal terms, strict compliance with fair rules, clearly formulated and universally implemented. Unfortunately, the next SYRIZA - ANEL government took some steps at the beginning, fragmented, but without dare to complete and implement the necessary institutional framework. And not only that, but whatever steps were taken, in the course of the course they were turned backwards, after they fell apart, devoid of provisions which you had just adopted. Over three years, Minister, nothing has happened to the important part of amateur sport. So there may not be any problems in this important part of sport, in amateur sport. There is not a single provision here to correct wrongly the texts and problems that exist in this area. Also, Minister, having been nurtured at the Ministry of Culture and Sport, I can only highlight the extremely serious problems, the problem at many levels, but especially at the cost of many projects, which had begun, had been launched and had largely advanced, up to the beginning of 2015. I would therefore like to refer to this, absolutely indicative and characteristic, in cases involving my country, Argolida, because it is a large archaeological park and indeed a mirror of problems in the field of culture and they do not find solutions. Despite the important contribution and the valuable efforts of the director and staff of the Department of Antiquities, as well as all staff in the archaeological sites and cultural sites, as well as in the Peloponnese, I begin with the Archaeological Museum of Argos. While the work of modernising the Archaeological Museum of Argos and re-exposing the collections, on the basis of already approved studies of a total budget of 4.050,000 euros had been incorporated into the NSRF for years with a body implementing the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the necessary precursors were made and the museum warehouse was created, in order to transfer the museum's antiquities there, to preserve and maintain the work, still cancerd, with an uncertain end. I say this because I say that the Prime Minister just yesterday in his recent speech at the Regional Conference on Productive Reconstruction in the Peloponnese did not make any reference to this work, and that is what we are concerned about. I would like to point out another reflection, the fact that the former Secretary-General had said in a meeting that the Archaeological Museum of Argos is not in the Ministry's priorities. I would therefore like you to make this clear and to make it clear here in the Chamber, because it is a very important cultural project for Argolida. I refer to the unacceptable image, created in the archaeological site and the Museum of Mycenas, a sanctuary for Greece and the entire western culture and monument of global heritage. The lack of cleaning staff, as well as of personal care, made it necessary to post a communication to the toilets, Mrs. Minister, of the archaeological site, which says in Greek and English that the archaeological site and the Museum of Mycenon do not have cleaning staff. I am referring to the works for the restoration and promotion in Burji, Nafplio, which, since the government took over by the SYRIZA - ANEL in 2015, have effectively stopped, so the monument has been presenting an unacceptable picture of abandonment with diffuse inert materials, machinery and cables throughout this period. It is noted here that the project had to be completed by 31 December 2015. Holocaust is unauthorized. Three years, from 2015 to 2018, they spent as a complete dead time. The work of the Competitiveness Programme just a few days ago was only part of the work of the Competitiveness Programme. I would also like to point out a very important task: the Integrated Environmental Promotion Programme of the Greater Asclipio of Epidaurus, which is also in hypnosis. In 2014, approximately EUR 5 million had been provided by the Environment Sector for the project. In 2017, 800,000 euros were barely approved. The work today is incarnated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. These are important things that I have to say and I think that these points will help to find - as my colleague said before - a meeting point in this large part of culture, the important part for our country. I would like, of course, to refer separately to the Temple of Epicurean Apollo, which is a monument to the global cultural heritage, which is part of the NSRF 2014-2017, the work of rebuilding and changing the rooftop, where only the part of restoration was completed. Contests for the replacement of the tent were scheduled for 2015, but the Ministry's political leadership remained undisturbed throughout 2015, leaving out the services and not contributing to the resolution of the problems. Today, the task of continuing to restore and replace the tent remains inactive. It has not even been submitted, Minister - and I want you to see it - the report on the integration of the project into the NSRP 2014-2020, if since 2014 resources had been provided for in its programming supplement to the sectoral ESDPEC programme, especially for works on UNESCO monuments. Finally, I stress the need to address all the remaining archaeological sites in the Peloponnese. It was said by the Division, Mrs. Kefaliannis. On April 1st of each year the summer extended hours of operation of archaeological sites and museums begin. Just a few days ago, the notice for the recruitment of temporary prisoners came out, so it is a little difficult to cover these posts up to Easter. On all these issues, then, Minister, we invite you to respond, in the belief that culture is for Greece, not only a primary comparative advantage, but in the effort for the recovery and development of our country it is indeed the invaluable component, which will give real impetus to this development, but it is also part of our identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Zakynthos. Zakynthos has her honorary here today. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Iason Foilas has the floor. You want your dentistry, too, Mr. Lightla?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, I'd like secondary. A few days ago, on February 26, Minister Vassiliade said about a fan who threw a roll of cash machine, hurting a man: "From an idiot, a team is in danger of losing the championship." After yesterday, I would say that from another 'principal' - I leave it to Mr Vassiliou, who makes the designations - a country is in danger of losing its dignity. But the relentlessness shown by this gentleman yesterday is not accidental. It is the same ruthlessness, which almost daily shows government ministers and government officials. Ambulance and status. That's what we're living today. I am closing this intervention and I would like to congratulate the PAOK fans and the team leader for their attitude yesterday and the spirit they have shown. Now we're going to today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crossroads. We were never isolated. We have always been open to all currents, to the East and to the West, and have assimilated them wonderfully, during the hours we acted like a strong organization. "My personal experience shows me that the thing that helped me was my faith and commitment to a world of living and passing people," he said decades ago, the great George Seferis and his voice sounded so timely today about our country, which is in this last of the Western world. Why did I choose those words from the top Nobel Prize, ladies and gentlemen? Because I believe that our country, which is at the border between conflicting cultures and with a neighbour particularly challenging, should, in addition to its defence armour, invest in culture, not only because this investment has great economic benefits due to the enormous cultural heritage that it has, anciently, Byzantine, younger, but also because it could contribute to the dialogue between these cultures as a bridge of friendship and dialogue. It has to show monuments and institutions in this direction. Transcript of the site of Ancient Olympia, which since ancient times has been a truce for the Olympic Games between the then-state cities-states. But what does this government do in the big picture? Has it, for example, taken any initiative to introduce the Olympic truce? Absolutely nothing. On the contrary, in the area of culture, the dominant tone is given by introverticity and the management of mixed reality, with declining budgets always falling. And the Museum of Ancient Olympia, despite the improved efforts of the whole promotion area - which have been made and which I do not underestimate - has not even been in a canister for the past three years to provide tourists with refreshments, because of the problem with the OP. Depending on problems - and Mrs Kefaliannis raised them - there are in a number of museums across the territory, with the situation in the LAG not promoting positive developments. And for the online ticket, we still hear promises. Even in younger cultural heritage, however, the situation is not good. In Patras, for example, where my city is, for a theatre of special historical and artistic value, "Apollos", built in 1872 in designs by the great German architect Ernestus Tsiller, despite the fact that through the NRF maintenance and restoration works were partly started, they suddenly stopped. What are the reasons for stopping work? Minister of State's administration with subtle responsibilities, unless it's something else, Minister. Tell us what it is and when the work will be given to the Patriots. The result is the depreciation of the theatre, its incomplete operation and, of course, the unacceptable situation in which it is today. As I talked about the theatres in the city of Patras, similar issues also exist with the ancient Roman theatre, the stage of the city. It is a monument that could, on a conditional basis, be a 'digestable' culture. Here too, all the promotional work has been frozen and neither expropriations nor excavations go any further. More generally, for the institution of modern theatres in the region, DPRKOTH, it does not seem that the government has a structured policy. However, the main priorities of a national, cultural, policy need to be the development of structures and the strengthening of the regional institutions. Instead, in the field of artistic arts, the Greek region is aided with an amount equivalent to only 3% of the total amount of CIS grants in the arts. That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u62	You do, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u63	This is the timely question that he put to you, Minister, SYRIZA's good colleague and MP, Mr. Mumulides, and was discussed in the House, where he pointed out the obvious. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the Minutes the timely question mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like an answer, Minister, for the hundreds of neoclassical buildings in our city. In recent years they have not been doing restoration work and have really been left to their fate. One of the latest flashes was in 2006 when Patra was Europe's cultural capital. Several of them today are literally devastated, which is also a danger to pedestrians passing through. Your three and a half years of governance have passed and we see nothing you have done about this issue. I shall say one more word - and I shall close, Mr President - on the issues relating to the association of culture with tourism and its various forms, where the shortcomings are really great. The attraction of tourists today to the monuments of the country combines their aesthetic enjoyment with a parallel utilization of the potential of each region, providing alternative activities. The link between culture and tourism and its specific forms, i.e. medical tourism or agricultural tourism and so many others, could become a source of very large revenue. For example, in Western Greece there is an excellent climate. Hotels, in collaboration with specialised medical units, could use this to provide medical care to combine it with cultural activities. You have not, however, even issued the DHS on agricultural tourism pending since 2014, which New Democracy had established the relevant legislative framework. I still hear promises about Easter after three and a half years. I expect your answers, Minister, because we believe that culture, in synergy with tourism, can be a comparative advantage for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. The Minister for Culture has the floor, Mr Lydia Conniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u65	I've been listening very carefully all this time. I agree with you that culture unites, culture bridges. But I wonder if forty years now that I'm living and working in this country, I live in the country that shows all the things that you're accusing SYRIZA of ruining. Indeed, culture could have been bridged, provided that we were precise in what we said and not placed in a sad manner, with elements that do not correspond to reality. Because I would like to respond to one - one of the questions tabled, as other issues have been raised, some of which are not my own competence and will be answered, I will start with one - one. I would like to refer to what we have received. We have received a Ministry without sectoral programmes, Members of the New Democracy and you know that very well. NSRF, sectorally, does not have the Ministry of Culture. We have received a Ministry whose structures have been subordinated to the withdrawal of experienced officials. We have received a modern culture with a lack of rules of operation. Even a building has rules, but not the supervised bodies for so many decades in the Ministry of Culture. We received the collapse of the institutions with continuous debt creations, a lack of organisations in the supervised entities, sudden, lifeless subsidy cuts in 2011 without prior warning, without hierarchy, with serious consequences. Examples are a lot like the Orchestra of Colours, Camerata, free theater and dance, the Theatrical Museum to which you referred, CERBI. The book policy is gone. We had a lack of regional policy, an abandonment of regional institutions, such as PPCTIs, left to their fate long before the crisis, long before 2011. There was a lack of evaluation and update of the grant of operators in the region with a dubious register of efficiency. If we say about cinema, the 2011 Act passed, except that nothing was implemented. All these years, absolutely nothing! We in this government are dealing with our strategy of the Ministry of Culture, as follows: we have two categories. There is one category that is urgent cases calling for immediate settlement and solution, cases that have come from previous governance and have never been dealt with. Such an example is the law on copyright. Since 1993, it has never been updated. The landscape of copyright had never been cleaned up. Everyone knew the pathogen except that no one intervened in this area. Well, this government started control over GDPI with the known results and goes on to legislative initiatives to put an end to this anomaly. The new agency of the Ministry? It was a priority. Settlement of work loose ends? It was a priority. To deal with the Solidarity Fund with issues arising from the management, which was necessary. The necessary changes in funding. A new board of directors and a new director has been placed. The transfer of the nursery to the Ministry of Culture was ensured on the basis of the organization. There is strategy and design in the archaeological sector, which has one of the most serious structures in the Ministry. We as a priority ensure studies mature. Since we no longer have the sectoral ESDP programmes, what we can do is prepare studies, be ready for accession. We want to have a fair distribution of resources, not some regions to get more and others to be forgotten. We also want to make maximum use of financial instruments up to the last euro. At the same time, we support the development of regional structures, along with the rationalisation and support of supervised bodies. We are seeking decentralisation at last. We seek to dialogue between the centre and the region, not to be the 'poor relative' of the centre, to imitate or not have its own identity. We have worked with concrete proposals and solutions for the DPRK, for grants, for the network of ancient dramas, cultural routes and their connection to ancient theatres. We support the linking of ancient heritage to modern culture without divisions, to stop this intersection between our glorious past and modern creation, our cultural heritage to fuel modern creation and modern creation to illuminate our past and coexist with fertile dialogue. So actions are developed in museums and archaeological sites in collaboration with supervised bodies and artists, which was not the case in the past. We cultivate collectiveity, the spirit of cooperation with the municipalities, with the regions, with other ministries, with universities. We work for cooperation. In practice, we are bridging conflicts with the good cooperation we have with the municipalities and regions throughout the country. A very good example of this is the bridge of Plaka that we have collaborated with seven different bodies, three different ministries and four different bodies. We also develop partnerships with mayors. A good example is the mayor of Patras that offers accessibility to Voudeni. The Ministry raised the monument and the mayor offered the way to reach the monument. We support diversity, identity. In a globalised environment we are interested in each region, each place to highlight its comparative advantages, to show its special personality, its special profile. Through the EDF we support local products and creations in refreshments and shops, as they are designed to function. Sustainable development is a key pillar in our strategy, the linking of the timeless heritage and modern culture with the great capital of this place, which is its only landscape and the protection of the environment, the development and support of innovation and youth. It promotes the cultural paths that offer mild, sustainable development in local communities. The EDF designs in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and Transport special routes and electronic ticket and sales support. New technology enters the archaeological sites and museums. In expropriations we have achieved an equal treatment of citizens on the basis of new rules, where the issue of expropriations has been put in a proper order. There is the institutional framework, the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage in conjunction with sustainable development, by regulatory instruments, in order to create a secure environment for the investment public and not to operate public administration in a customer-private manner. We're coming to the NSA. We inherited a burdensome situation from previous governments, because in the years 2012-2014, when planning the 2014-2020 programming period, a separate sectoral operational programme for culture, as was the case in the Third Community Framework in 2000-2006, was not predicted. This was a central government option through the then Ministry of Development that coordinated the operational programmes for all ministries. So you know very well that there is no sectoral operational programme of the Ministry of Culture and Sport at the NSR and it depends on the programmes that have other ministries, because you did not claim it as a government. Nor was there any possibility of allocating funds from sectoral regional operational programmes for their management by the Ministry of Culture, as happened in the NSRF 2007-2013. In addition, with L.4314/2014, which is the key institutional text of the NSRP 2014-2020, the Ministry of Culture Special Department of the Ministry of Culture shall be renamed to an NSRP and shall be subtracted from its powers in the management of co-financed resources. Result? The Ministry of Culture and Sport has not only provided separate resources for the cultural sector since the beginning of the programming period, but has lost the institutional capacity to claim management of other operational resources programmes, so that it cannot manage money as a programme management authority and depend on the programmes that have other ministries or regions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Here I note that a huge effort is being made by the Special Department of Culture, by ETUCOL and the cooperating services throughout the territory of the Ministry to always be on hand with studies so that they can participate in the studies in good time to be ready for any calls. Thus, the efforts of the services focused on ensuring as much resources as possible from as many thematic objectives as possible. In particular, a number of actions have been taken to provide funds for both infrastructure projects and actions in other horizontal areas, such as research, technology, communication, education and entrepreneurship enhancement. The NRP final structure shall participate from the beginning of the current programming period in all procedures for the design and specialisation of operational programmes, with meetings, with work, with committees, etc. It shall work with the competent management authorities and shall ensure the timely adoption of the relevant calls for proposals for and inclusion of projects to be financed by sectoral and regional operational programmes, and shall take the necessary steps to promote legislation on co-financed cultural projects. For 2007-2013 and the transition to 2014-2020, the majority of the Culture Sector projects implemented under the ESDP 2007-2013 were completed. In particular, six hundred and fifty-four projects totalling some 597 million were carried out with an absorption rate of 97%. In particular, until 31-12-2014, the natural object had been completed in a hundred and twenty-six projects and only fifteen integration decisions had been issued for an equal number of projects. After 1-1-2015, the remaining integration decisions were adopted, six hundred and twenty-one in number, when the SYRIZA Government now took over. Finally, I should like to mention that a number of flagship projects in the 2007-2013 programming period have been found to be very early that it was not possible to complete, due to the insurmountable difficulties of the previous period: delayed studies, therefore, there was no maturity, intensities, so less time available for implementation and delays in the project, the absorption of funds, etc. You know all that, of course, very well. The first committees to specialise the new projects of the period were under pressure to continue these projects in the new period 2014-2020. The successful management of the topic and the coordination of the Ministry of Culture with the relevant ministries for the NSRF 2014-2020 resulted in the integration of projects of a total budget of about 42 million, i.e. 34 million projects of phasing and 8 million euros, which were not completed or even started in the previous period. These are projects which have been part-financed and will be completed in two phases. The National Gallery belongs to these phasing projects. With the effective response of the problems arising under the contract with the contractor, it is planned at the end of 2019 to complete the expansion project of EMAS and at the end of 2020 to reopen the National Gallery - Alexandros Sutsos Museum in the new buildings. The Museum of Greek Folk Art, the Megaro Tsiller - Loverdou, the Polycentric Museum of Ages, the Alexandroupolis Museum, the new Archaeological Museum of Chania, the Archaeological Museum of Samothrakis belongs to this category of works. The projects carried out were not absorbing and will be included in the NRW 2014-2020 to complete the current programming period, such as the Sami Archaeological Collection, the Northeast Tower in Aeges, the emergence and relocation of the Bourgi Fortress in Nafplion, that is to say, projects that had not incurred expenditure before 1 January 2014 and what we said about projects that never started. To date, operational programmes of the ESRB have been activated, and so far, funds for the cultural sector amount to EUR 310 million from the services of the Ministry of Culture have been allocated. In this context, calls have been issued from all the operational programmes to the Ministry of Culture and the supervised bodies for the submission of project proposals, a budget of EUR 248 million, that is, 80% of the specialised funds have been activated by issuing invitations. The Ministry of Culture has already tabled proposals for a hundred and eight projects in the budget of 165,910m euros, corresponding to 67% of the budget for the calls issued. This number of proposals is about the same as the number of proposals submitted during the corresponding period of the previous NSRP, i.e. at the beginning of 2011, which was the fourth activation time of the NSRP, despite the fact that the resources available at that time were approximately twice as high as those available today. In this period, therefore, the activation rate in the fourth year of the current NSRP is around the same and absolutely comparable without any delay with the corresponding percentage of the previous period. Of the eight projects so far, seventy and sixteen projects have already been included and implemented in the budget of a hundred and fourteen million euros, which means that the percentage of entrys relative to the budget of invitations is already 46%, when the absorption rate of the projects, expenditure on the budget of the signed projects, reaches 18%. There is also a claim for extra resources. The aim is to incorporate projects to cover the budget of specific funds. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] There are too many questions, Mr President, I have not been able to cover them. You should give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u66	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u67	There is an additional claim of EUR 310 million at the end of 2018. With this development there will be a possibility of claiming additional resources. Also through INTERREG there are projects for cooperation between Greece - Albania, Greece - Bulgaria, Greece - Cyprus, Greece - FYROM. There is also an INTERREG MED and BLUEMED programme. There are many proposals put forward for the ESDP. There are three hundred proposals for approach, and there is a great potential, as research and innovation in the field of culture develops. Regarding the organization of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, we know that the Presidential Decree on the organization of the Ministry was published on 22 January. There has indeed been a preparation of the draft organisation which was a product of dialogue. For the first time, contrary to the 2014 Agency, the views of all employee services were included through their association and other representation bodies. First of all, I remind you of the shrinking of the organization of the Ministry of Defence in 2014. Our concern, therefore, was to solve problems created by the shrinking agency of 2014. We chose not to concentrate historical addresses of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the contrary, we separated some, in an effort to avoid malfunctions and dyskinesis, huge structures, with different objects and ineffective, because of object size, action. We have not abolished or merged inventions anywhere on the ground. We have not abolished central coordination on the sensitive issue of storage and added to thirteen archbishops, which have many visiting places in their area of responsibility and a lot of visitability, security offices. And in no way did we make any amendments concerning photographic provisions on 'days', as you said. In the approved body, where repetitions of objects were repeated were abolished. Where there were shortages of structures, such as the Secretariat of Contemporary Culture, maintenance departments, services of new monuments, security offices, etc. In addition, the new organization has increased the organic positions of workers by a thousand and eighty-seven permanent private law, with an undetermined mandate and with a term of office, to meet the needs, in order to recruit staff, particularly in the neo-Algerian security sector. Internal rules of operation to supervised bodies of the Ministry. I would like to start from the Greek Film Center because it is a very special case. This regulation was one of the very characteristic examples of what was missing in the Ministry of Culture from the previous governments. In 2010, passed by Law 3905 on cinema, the "Law of Geroulanos", until 2016, there was no regulation at the Hellenic Film Center. The first government to make full implementation of that law was the present SYRIZA Government. And the previous board of directors of the Cinema Center started drafting the regulation. The Regulation is at the final stage of processing by the Centre. At the National Museum of Contemporary Art, as you know, the internal rules of operation of the museum were published. At the lyrics and the State Theatre of Northern Greece is in the final phase. In addition, the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction sent a circular for the reassessment of the structures and organisational units of individual persons belonging to the general government and other public services and the final date for the submission of the regulations was 31-7-2017. Thus, plans of internal regulations have been sent and are being processed for the State Conservatory of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki Film Festival, Library Museum, Eleftheriadis Army - Teriade and the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece. For the bill "Compilation of the three Museums: State Museum of Contemporary Art, Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and Photography Museum", CENE's observations have been sent and are being processed. It was a matter that took years. Well, we're finishing it. As far as the EDF is concerned, you have referred to several Members in this regard. This issue has been answered, but for citizens to be informed, let us revert and repeat the information already mentioned in a relevant press release: The EFF, as a legal entity governed by public law, under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, sets out its key long-term objectives and objectives. Its objectives, the main axes, are tickets, sales, refreshments, support for archaeological work with studies, publications and expropriations. A roadmap has been created where priority is given to the implementation of the necessary corrective action on these axes. Axle number one: Tickets. The application of the online ticket...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, let me remind you that you have both a dentology and a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u70	If possible, let's get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u71	Should we leave it for later? It's quite a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u72	You have secondary and tritology. You have all the comfort to say. Thank you very much. Mr Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, today - I think you have understood it - you had the opportunity from the officer's point of view to answer a question concerning the government's national strategy on culture. I think it is one of the few cases that today, where a Minister is asked, under terms of parliamentary decency and political honesty, by a party which has the constitutional and parliamentary privilege to represent opposition. The audit that is being carried out to you today, which is the nature of the question, required and still requires specific answers from you. So you will also leave this Chamber after the end of the procedure and you will be able to feel satisfied that you have fulfilled a fundamental democratic duty which the government has towards Parliament. I should, however, be very respectful of your function, to say that we did not want you to come here and tell us a typing text that - I will say it - I will not be able to resist the temptation - the one who wrote it to you, obviously, should not feel so spaciously in this ministry where you are serving what it was, which is and will remain Greece: her culture. Because if it is something for which anyone who holds your place must feel awe, it is because the Prime Minister of his country has trusted him the saints of the saints of that country. He has trusted him with a culture that has evolved under uniqueness and has now come to be regarded as one of the few cultures they still hold in harmony with their values and teachings the entire world. The whole planet - you know it much better than I do, Minister - still touches on Greek culture. And that's what we asked of you today. You should come here and tell us that this left-wing government - which, when it was Anti-Population, was fighting and saying that it has a special, special, privileged relationship with culture - is the government that opened roads to the protection of cultural heritage, which has solved problems in the policy adopted by the old governments for the return of the Parthenon marbles, tell us about which are indeed critical issues. And you have made us an account of the management of matters which are not, rather than a well-known publicity. We have all learned about the special, privileged, the Messianic country, the Messianic relationship you imagine as a party that you have with history. The stones in Greece have now learned that. What we do not see, however, is works, is creation. Of course, it is very important to hear from you in your answer that you did not find a sectoral programme in culture and that is why you feel very bad. But did we find such a program, too? We're the ones who accuse us of handing you burnt-out land, what do you mean? Burnt land in culture does not exist in Greece. No matter how disastrous the inability of any government is, Greek culture is inexhaustible. He'll always be a yeast, and he'll create and grow. So don't tell us that, because we, which went through this ministry, with the help of all the service actors and with the help of all those who are really struggling from the position of archaeologist, from the position of director of the services, managed and gave a project through the NSRF, although there was no sectoral programme, eight hundred and twenty-five projects, totalling 950 million, and the other ministers who went through did the same. A unique case, the only exception to this very growing exploitation of Community resources, in order to demonstrate, protect and exploit our cultural heritage, is you and I will explain why, with a characteristic example. Because genealogies are no longer enough to explain your inability to follow the big issues of your ministry. So a project called "replacement of the church of Epicurean Apollo in the Basses" was handed over to you. This temple of Epicurean Apollo is, as you know, the creation of the Ikino, that is, he did the Parthenon, and, as we all know now, in the construction of this temple of Epicurean Apollo, Ikinos corrected the mistakes, as these mistakes were, and if there were such mistakes, which he had made to the Parthenon. And yet, in your auction, the work was delivered and you were able to not feel the obligation that, at last, this rooftop, which has already counted its strengths and has now reached a point where it does not protect the monument, you especially left it and replied, for precisely because of the very long procedures that followed, you were unable to answer a few objections from the contestants. Finally, you know that this unique project, which is UNESCO project, has been interrupted today, these work which has to do with highlighting the northern side of innovation and which is today really shameful for any government to say that we have received from the former government burned land. Come together, then, and adapt to the needs of your role. I have had the honour of asking you at the beginning of your career as Minister if you will be able to meet both the needs of your professional obligations and the needs that this ministry has. However, I can see that, unfortunately, you are not allowed by the many extra-industrial jobs you have - and rightly so, because you are a worthy tragedy - to have fully assimilated the meaning of your role. Because everything you have told us here - I regret to tell you - is not answering any of the questions that we have asked you. They do not respond, for example, to what your position is for the fight by all governments, from Melina Mercouri in 1982 to today for the return of the Parthenon marbles. We are aware of a position you said in New York, but I was indeed surprised when I heard about it, because I am really convinced that you are not aware of the meaning of it, the racing meaning of this claim. I was one of those who, as Minister of State, set up the Advisory Committee of Sages of People, experienced scientists, to draw up a national strategy in this claim, because some people who came from various places in Australia or America had then told us stories that have campaigned for the struggle and practically distracted Greece's attention in claiming this great national issue on other issues. Well, I'm telling you this and you need to understand it: we have a strong, firm argument in this claim. It is necessary that all civilised peoples of the earth feel, UNESCO, too, that monuments should be repatriated, not to satisfy property rights, but because such monuments belong to the entire world. The monuments, therefore, need to be repatriated to place them where their creator wanted to place them from that place as well to give their messages. We, and we have one further argument: these marbles have been brutally deported from an overall monument, which has to date still been mutilated. This amputation is a disgrace to the entire world. So who will resist such a request, if you fight diplomatically and with friends in the struggle that all the people do, to gain the meaning that all these unsurpassed creations of art and culture deserve? But that's why you haven't answered us. Do you want to go somewhere else? You told us, for example, that history with the National Gallery is doing well and that we don't have to make any other peak criticisms about what you've done for three years, rather than be content with your assurance that it will end in 2018. But what you did not tell us is why it was dismantled, because of the public, this particular contractor, and after taking 780 thousand euros of the contractor from the Greek State, then the dissolution was cancelled and the contractor himself is in this work. That's what we want you to explain. The fact that this project will be completed at some point is certain. I will tell you something else and I will do so with great appreciation for the Minister for Culture in this country. You've been to China recently. We still have not learned what the outcome of the contacts or bilateral relations you have developed with this very large country is. What should have in mind, however, every Minister of Culture of this country, our country, Greece, is that the Chinese, who are the other largest culture on the planet, Greece, call it "Si-La", which means in their own language "the other civilization". We therefore represent 'the other culture' for the Chinese. In other words, we represent the other great culture. Unfortunately, your works so far are not worthy of this majesty. My humility once had the opportunity to propose to an event that we had organized at the Acropolis Museum with representatives of China's largest television channel, which had come to get documentary for our monuments, this. And I would like once in the spirit of unity and in the conditions of unity to defend the common case, which has no class divisions, that is to say, it relieves you of the stress of the class struggle towards the enemy, of the anxiety of self-discrimination as a young person against the old, to respond to me. This is the culture, which gives us the right to say that Greece and another seven big countries have come to unite a union called C8 "Culture 8". In other words, in line with the G8, the planet could have a union of the eight major cultures that still affect our lives and have fuelled our lives with meaning and values. And through this very union, under the direction of UNESCO, we have the opportunity to give the tuna to the whole of this very great effort, which man must make today to resist the neo-barbaricity that he is taking, and we all understand it. Yesterday's episode on the Toumba stadium is a sign of the times, that neo-barbarianism also makes it possible for you, unfortunately, not only to tolerate it, but also to experience it in a variety of ways. The Prime Minister's words from this Step or from where you sit still speak in our ears.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, with great respect for your function, but with many reservations about the way in which you perform your duties, I have to tell you today as a conclusion in my speech that I see that through your words you seem to be innocently confusing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Colleague, My colleague, Mr Themistollis Mumulides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Let me welcome my fellow Members at home, since, from what I have heard in their speeches, it is clear that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u78	Are you a host?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u79	I'm a speaker, Mr. Javarra. I listened carefully and commented precisely on what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u80	Because you welcome us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u81	From what I heard from your speech, it is clear that you have been absent from the country for years and have appeared in the last three years. That's obvious. That's what I understood. The reason for the timely question is clear. It is for purely communication reasons that this form of timely questions allows the questioner to have a spectacularly long speaking time, while on the contrary, the respondent speaks much less. I shall start a little by the unfortunate, in my opinion, on the subject of your topical question: 'Inability of the Government to develop a strategy and address cultural issues'. It is an unfortunate title, but appropriate, correct communication, after starting aggressively: "Government Inability...". This is what you are doing in this attempt to degrade every activity of the government project. I assume that in the next period as a party you have chosen a bar of questions in other areas, because this is very much a topical issue. The text begins as follows: "Culture constitutes a huge comparative advantage that Greece has". A prototype! Yes, except for the party of Officerial Response, culture operates over time and as an excellent pre-election slogan, many times empty content, which as a party he duly honoured and which he always forgets. He continues the text: "Due to the insurmountable government manipulations and lack of strategy, the policies for the sector are nonexistent". I should like to point out that culture, as you have been mistakenly missed, is not an area, but is a national, development chapter, as you rightly said by your speaker, by Mr Tasoula, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u82	I wasn't abroad. I was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u83	I'm so glad. We also have a follow-up: 'Culture is praising...'. Because the tragedies have been heard, and because the tragedy has something to do with Euripidis, Aeschylus, Sophocles, there is also their adversary, who is Aristophanes. Is the text still going on while you're telling us? That in your governments he was obviously magnifying: "...the moment that he should act as a coherent element in society, to produce wealth, to create jobs." In other words, to remember a loved one of all of our heroes, Hamlet, words, words, words, words that have never been made in your government, because the truth is that culture has been praising and disgraceful for some decades and therefore the recovery effort we are trying as a government is extremely difficult and that is clear, much more in times of crisis. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that as a government you have never really dealt with culture. On the contrary, you have allowed all this sub-culture phenomenon to develop and grow, created by the uncontrolled and uncontrolled operation of private television channels, the easy television product, which for some of you, unfortunately, is also a cultural asset. And if we should make an account of your own governments, you have to show, as the Ministry of Culture, a party leader, a prime minister, a potential prime minister and a leader party as the ministers of culture, and your government partner by January 2014 has to show a party leader to the Ministry's leadership. Why is that? Because for many of you, employment with the Ministry of Culture has at one time highlighted an important political symbolism and, at one time, it has been a painless transitional stage for someone's political development. Personally, I would listen with interest to one of your speakers defending the work of your governments with typical examples. That's not what they heard, because you can't defend them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will definitely need a minute more. I continue with another generalology of your text. You say, 'In parallel, cultural entrepreneurship, instead of being strengthened, is constantly being blamed for the more general governmental decisions'. Other than others! Let one of the speakers explain what you are talking about, what you mean by 'cultural entrepreneurship'. Because if you are unfortunately referring to the area of modern culture - I hope you do not - hypocrisy will be revealed there, but, unfortunately, lack of self-awareness, since it is a space which you have literally broken up and led to the incredible inflationary phenomena in the arts sector, with the unemployment of Greek authors exceeding 95%, which we did not create. We're trying to collect the uncomfortables. Also, with industrial relations being looted and effectively abolished, due to the damaged work field. Ladies and gentlemen, the cultural sector and culture are not available for communication toys. I am going to stand on two other points, because time is extremely short and inequality. You also mention: ‘In other words, the establishment of a special secretariat for contemporary culture is being promoted.’ And it goes on to say: 'An additional position for someone who is 'neutral' is institutionalized'. This is where the "Look who's talking" sticks! You are supposed to know, as a pro-European party, that the respective foreign ministries have all created secretaries of contemporary culture. I don't know what model you want to deal with. After all, the secretariat of modern culture, in order to develop modern culture, is a constant and time-consuming demand of Greek creators. There is no other way to function and develop modern culture. Your comment on the establishment of this secretariat is repeated: "Extra infarction in a problematic and inefficient management system", which was an administrative system for who created it? Obviously, in your text there are signs that move in the area of unbearable lightness and political amoralism. In closing, you will proceed to findings on grants. "Many of the sufferings" - you say - "are in a failure to function." I would like to ask you: which are you referring to? Because you are obviously possessed by incredible ignorance of space. You talk about modern culture and you do not understand what modern civilization means. So tell us: To which of the sufferings are you quoted as falling and having difficulty? In which of the two thousand tribulations your policy created in this country? Anybody who wants to answer. For you, the grants were part of a political perception, a toy without rules, which led to the performing arts in a historical deadlock that we are trying to prevent, so that entire professions are not abolished. That's where we're here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to the criteria for grants, to which you refer, it is obviously offensive to the procedure, because it is clear that you have not studied very well what is true on the part of the Ministry and what has often been announced. Therefore, follow, through your communication policy tactics, roads dangerous, streets of deception.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, don't go on. You've reached seven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u87	I conclude by saying: In the eighth question, which says: "Who is the Ministry's more general planning on the interconnection of culture with tourism?", it would really be worth listening to how you as government linked culture to tourism, when the Minister has been mentioned several times in detail in a project. In conclusion, I say that it would be very useful for your current question to have been another process, a process of substantial, dynamic dialogue between all Parliament's forces for the future of Greek culture, so that we can prove that we are all interested in the present and future of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u88	Yes, thank you, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u89	I would like to congratulate - and I am closing down, Mr President - the youngest of the speakers, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, on the spirit and content of his speech. He was the only one who made proposals. I wish this conversation would follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Comrade, please complete. You've been talking ten minutes. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u91	Good, Mr. President. So today's question for us is "a shirt empty" and even without Helen. This is a hypocrisy recital, irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u92	Yes, thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u93	Madam Minister, as the Greek people well know, the Ministry of Culture is also the Ministry of Sports. I think what happened in football yesterday has nothing to do with culture. Why am I saying that? Because it is a timely morbid situation in the field of Greek football and, of course, what your Deputy Minister has announced - and today he said it - that the government has fought great battles to exalt football for three years, not really, and all citizens know it. They haven't seen any battle, they haven't seen any change. On the contrary, they have seen, once again, intertwining business interests that plunge the soccer room into our country. Yesterday's images actually expose our country internationally and it is time, finally, that the laws of the state and the relevant regulations are fully implemented. Discontinuation of the championship has been announced indefinitely. I would say that it is possible - because I see something in front of me that is going to happen again - to stop the championship for a few weeks, then forget the subject and continue as if nothing had happened. In addition, we have lived in our country many times - the same things have happened. Will the government finally take an initiative in this country, even now, even in five and really, to try to restructure and regulate football in our country, or to continue a situation that runs through our country internationally? Of course, these events are not just about football, they are not just about sports. They are directly mirroring and stressing the general problem of the country, which is the depreciation of institutions. What happens to football is also happening to society. This is the case, he is a mirror in fact, and we cannot continue to tolerate this. The country cannot go this way. I read today an interview with you in a newspaper today, if I'm not mistaken. In fact, as I have learned, according to the News, the newspaper now passes exclusively on to Mr Savvidis as an exclusive shareholder with the changes that have been made, because I am connecting it to the previous topic. I read your interview and I was really surprised. I give you characteristic examples: As far as the Greek is concerned, you say you are very satisfied. Very satisfied with all this delay and all that has happened? Don't you have a word to say, don't you have anything to say that the CRA hasn't done as it should have done all this time? You are replying to a question about your predecessor, who, as the question says, considered the possibility of artistic directors being chosen by a committee and you respond - and I say self-evident what you say - 'possibly this might be useful for some ministers who have other expertise, or have no such contact with the space as I am moving within it for forty years, I know people and things. And I'm at least enough for some advice, if these are more specific things." As an authority, did you answer here the question the journalist asked you? In fact, is it possible - we are talking about the former Minister, the question refers to your Government, to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, does it not refer to another government - to answer 'the former Minister did not know so well about the issues, I know them very well, and I do not need any committee that has been proposed to me'? And to connect this and an amendment that you had brought here a little while ago - Mr. Skouriakos if I am not mistaken - to appoint an artistic director without a degree, I ask: is it reasonable to be able to pass it, to change the bad texts and the passions of the past?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u95	Sure. In an amendment on a specific case I referred to, which has also been criticised in particular. I now come to another question concerning contractors. It simply regrets that two hundred EDF contractors were fired. He just feels sorry for you! For the online ticket, I note that your Government has announced it pilotally since May 2015. I have heard you say several times that you have received a Ministry. I imagine that you were referring to three years ago and not by the previous Minister. But if you are referring to three years ago, I would like to ask: are you three years in the government of the country and say that you have received a Ministry? It's over four years. Will you finish and say "we received a Ministry", when we criticise you when questions are asked by the Opposition? Is it possible to move to this country, in this way, not to say what you have not done these four years, in the four years that you have undertaken, and to answer 'we have received a Ministry' as if you have three months? At first, I really thought you were referring to the previous Minister. Madam Minister, civilization passes through the entire social body. It concerns attitudes and behaviours, stereotypes and standards. It reflects the conscience of society, the way of life and perception of the world and its relationship with others. That is what makes him the most appropriate field of policy. As culture is inextricably linked to aesthetics and ideology, it is also the most revealing field for the policy maker. That is why I mentioned these characteristic examples. It is an area that, unfortunately, has not been relieved of opaqueness, of a customer perception. And, of course, cultural education at all levels of education must be upgraded and not degraded. The examples are many and revealing. I don't have the time. Not only you, but Mr Tsipras also said three days ago that he would now make the productive reconstruction plan and the development plan. This is also our criticism in your Government and in the area of culture and, more generally, that you are planning the new development plan now and so many years. Is there a national cultural strategy? That's what you need to answer. How do these priorities - if they exist, why do we not see them - correspond to the Ministry's establishment plan, but also to the establishment plans of the supervised bodies? And how, on the basis of this plan - if we accept that there is - are you dealing with cultural issues? Many are typical examples of the essential upgrading of the services offered, which has not been done. What have you predicted about the hours of the museums and archaeological sites beyond the Acropolis? Shouldn't it be enlarged? What have you done to develop digital applications that will facilitate access? I mentioned the typical example of the online ticket. You're delaying everywhere. And, essentially, what connection to the tourism industry? What are you doing about modern creation? You stress that you are subsidising suffering, when you do not have a coherent framework for strengthening primary creation, and it seems that your state-run thinking often does not allow you to promote innovative entrepreneurship. And lastly, but perhaps the most critical one: Culture is not limited to the field of the creation of cultural goods and their dissemination, but is about the day-to-day experience, the essence of the quality of our lives. And I would really like to ask you: How do you understand it when you are not using culture as a lever for social cohesion, as a tool for protecting and respecting human and individual rights, of diversity? Ladies and gentlemen, its cultural policy and its link to sustainable, sustainable development is a challenge to which we must respond. For us, the efforts of cultural regeneration of our country go hand in hand with the struggle for an open society, a society that is progressive and participatory. That is a national objective and my position is that we should all try to achieve it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Antony Gregos has spoken since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. To say something very fundamental: other thing, multiculturalism and another thing, culture. Culture is a treasure, multiculturalism destroys every element of culture. Also, a minimum sign of culture is what you should do immediately, turn this money back from the so-called loans to the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK and return it to the Greek people. With regard to the topical and urgent question tabled by the New Democracy on the impotence of the Government in defining the strategy and addressing cultural issues, let me say this. In a similar way, as with the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, this government also continues to deal with the issues of culture in the same disastrous and disastrous way. You first taught the so-called "National" according to New Democracy, which, on the basis of an organized and very dirty plan, proceeded with the great destruction of the internal centres of large cities, in the face of the economic benefits, creating today's monsoon cities, which in no way compare to other European cities, which have fully maintained their cultural heritage, which - notable - was and is much smaller than ours. In the course and so far, useless and indifferent ministers provided examples of cultural issues, such as desecration, abandonment, destruction of archaeological sites, museums, foundations, monuments, etc. A description of the examples of the Salaminomachus Tumvos, the archaeological sites in the center of Thessaloniki, which have become an vast dump, the destruction of statues and monuments in the center of the major cities. Here, let us say that the respective mayors bear a great responsibility. I'm talking about the useless mayors, Bhutari, Kamine and the others. Here we remind the case of the Mayor of Athens, who, with an unprecedented and incomprehensible move, withdrew forty-nine sculptures placed on various parts of the city, following constant cases of vandalism and the the theft of mountain bushes from your favourite children and known "sensitive". Here we have a double admission of incompetence by the mayor and the Minister responsible. This has been the case by the competitor Cassidiarios on the Municipal Council. Illustrations of shame are seen throughout the country and, indeed, spaces of enormous archaeological and historical value have been occupied or destroyed by protected illegal immigrants. We've seen shocking images, there's been complaints from institutions and residents, but of course nothing happens. Attributes are the cases in the castle of Chios or in the walls of the castles of Thessaloniki and in many other places. Of course, university institutions have their honour, with daily catastrophes by the brains and others known. The issues that concern today's question are a lot and the issue is a very big one. We have asked too many questions about all these issues. Question to end the work in the municipality of Amphipolis and the delays that have been made for obvious reasons. We really want to ask the Minister this: can we visit this monument and, if so, how? Make a node or let us know in writing. We have asked about the return of the stolen Sculptures - Sculptures and not Marbles - the Parthenon in Greece, question "outside the NRP Amphipolis for a third year, the monument was set out". Another question: "In a stalemate work for the completion of the National Gallery despite ministerial assurances". Another question: "To abandon the archaeological site of Hero in Marathon". Another question: "Tragical image of Salamimanca Tymvos in glorious Salamimana" and many other questions tabled by the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. They are issues which also demonstrate the inability of the governments of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. These include delays in the NSRF 2014-2020, absorption rates, issues relating to the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, issues relating to the conservation of monuments and museums by modern barbaric raids, issues relating to the residual functioning of museums and other spaces. These areas are often closed due to a lack of staff. There are little examples of archaeological sites in Attica and Crete which, during the tourist season, did not work or remain in service, as either the archaeological guards carried out strikes, claiming the entrepreneurials, or because the prison staff were not numberly enough. It is also very suspicious that the monument of Amphipolis should be depreciated - and these are issues relating to the renovation and expansion of the National Gallery. As far as the Music House is concerned, we must point out that this is an extremely challenging situation. The House changed page after the Minister decided in December to donate to the funds of 60.4m euros in order to settle his debts, debts arising from the granting of guarantees of older loans and the Greek State acted as guarantor of these loans. Let us recall that you have brought an amendment which relieved the company of the obligation to produce proof of tax and insurance information on debts to the public. In practical terms, this meant deleting his debts. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, when the New Democracy had taken the corresponding amendment in 2014, you voted against it by blaming the then government for opaque procedures. You still do the same. To be clear, we are not, of course, opposed to culture, to the functioning of the Megaron, but also to any other cultural body, provided that it does not do so in a challenging way. It's a moral matter. The money that you are spectacularly scattering for the'mothers' project and for the maintenance of a corrupt system should be given in favour of the tested people, the retired and the unemployed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Other themes are the unacceptable state of the National Archaeological Museum, as I said above or the findings at Venizelos and Agia Sophia stations on the Thessaloniki metro. Last point I shall raise is the issue of the Parthenon sculptures. Once again, Minister for Culture of SYRIZA - ANEL argues that we will legally claim the marbles of the Parthenon. And the predecessor of the current minister said the same thing. It is clear, therefore, that the government's intentions to repatriate these cultural goods exist. Yet the claim of the Parthenon sculptures was another programmatic promise that proved to be waste. Considering that we incorporate a directive on the return of cultural goods, we were given the opportunity to create a legal framework not only for the Parthenon sculptures, but also for any other archaeological treasure stolen, for example during the Occupation. You have not taken advantage of Momentum, but by sacrificing this opportunity on the altar of European cheques only for the benefit of other Europeans, who naturally did not bring them such an addition, especially if you consider the revenue that is present annually from the demonstration and promotion of these treasures in our museums. It is truly tragic that the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA despise our national monuments and our culture, our history that is clearly far superior to other peoples. As much as you fight against the demonstrations of Greek culture and Greek history, as much as you despise it, no matter what you do to degrade it and abuse it, you know that there will always be a group of true Greeks that respects the Greek nation, Greek culture and traditions and distribute them orally into the mouth and from generation to generation. Only in this way will we move forward, inspired by the heroism of our forefathers, and strip the bonds and shadows of the last decades. Let the Greek people not make the mistake of separating these parties - I am talking about New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA - because even in the area of culture it is one and the same. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Hellenic Chamber VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and two trainers from the Experimental Gymnasium of Lifelong School of Ioannina (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Culture, Minister, it's sport. Except that everything that we could not accept last night in Toumba and we are seeing them for years on Greek courts is not sport. It's not even soccer. Or rather this is the downside of the big business football, who, with the tolerance and support of all the governments, play their own political and economic games on the backs of the teams and fans. It's rumored the end of the championship. So what? Will it be the first time? It was neither a solution nor a solution, of course, to the current situation, which is not only exaggerated, but is constantly going from evil to worse. One thing is needed and he now understands almost the whole world. It is necessary to abolish all business activities in the football field, in the field of sport and in the field of culture. From this debate, it seems, once again, that the well-known meaningless scenario of contrast is chosen, so that the real essence of confrontation between the government, the New Democracy and the other parties does not appear at all to be the best manager of the interests and the pursuits of capital and culture, as is the case everywhere. Even the title of the New Democracy question itself, which refers only to the Government's inability to deal with culture, confirms this conclusion, that neither in culture exists any substantial, i.e. strategy, difference between the Government and the New Democracy. We are now coming to the very contents, which further confirms what we have said before. As long as we look at about nine pages of the text of the question we will not find a single word about the real causes that have created these serious problems in culture, it will not find a single word about the commercialisation of cultural heritage, it will not find a single word about the enormous shortages of staff in the Ministry of Culture or in the museums, nor of course about the tradition of the arts in the speculative bourgeoisie of business circles or about the relentless state of full impoverishment of many people in the cultural sector. And he will not find out why very simply all this has been caused by the policy of all governments up to now and with great vigour since 2011. So neither on the government's part does it make sense to expect something better, since, with the policy that has been pursued so far and in culture, it applies the European Union's strategy, of course, to satisfying the demands of businessmen in the area. The reaction of this policy, Minister, has given us several times to reveal it with several questions, but also on the basis of bills or amendments tabled by you and voted in Parliament, such as last year on copyright. But we also have very recent examples of this anti-popular policy. A few days ago we had the intervention not of your own, but of the Ministry of Labour in favour of employers at the theatre, and not of all the employers, but of the most powerful financially, to lighten them by the pressure of the struggle of the associations of the space, the Association of Greek Actors and the Pan-Hellenic Music Association. What do these people have been asking for and what these people have been fighting for months, these actors and musicians, through their unions? They demand the simplest and most basic for their work: a collective work contract at the theatre. And yet, the Ministry of Labour comes in and tries to apply a working contract, says, in favour of employers, a vehicle with the POTO, the Pan-Hellenic Federation of View and Accuracy, so that the great employers of the theatre area can apply the hourly wages to the performances and thus perpetuate the unpaid rehearsals into a gallery regime. One will say here, of course, and why should employers not follow this practice towards workers when the state itself treats its own workers in the same way? For example, the musicians in the orchestras and the Municipal Associations of ERT and municipalities, of whom about half are contractors and many of them are even rewarded with the song, namely the concert. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little tolerance, Mr. President. So, what policy for culture can a government be boasted by either a New Democracy or a SYRIZA when the percentage of the ordinary budget for culture fell from 0,15% of 2012 to the unlikely, to the degrading 0,04% of 2018? What cultural policy can boast urban parties when they literally hand over the cultural area to the hug of large business groups and their foundations, when the cultural heritage itself is commercially exploited, through the integration of archaeological works into the NSRC or in the regional operational programmes that have as a key criterion the increase of revenue through visitability and, in particular, the exploitation of cultural heritage by attracting business groups around important archaeological sites? But see what kind of work relationships arise and what employment arrangements are being introduced through either the region or other bodies: a large number of contracted hostages that are growing at the expense of permanent work, delays in payment, failure to recognise pre-services, redundancies, terrorism of workers, working conditions without the slightest measure of safety, shortages of logistics, problems in the workplace and so many others. Meanwhile, many museums, including some in the capital, Athens, remain closed due to a lack of staff. We have a very same perception of the closest to the Byzantine Parliament, in which due to a lack of staff only the exhibition of the characters of George Varlamos works. The same cause keeps the National Museum of Contemporary Art closed, beyond its administrative problems. And now I come to the EDF, the archaeological fund, and the apologies. We are not underestimating his administrative gaps and problems at all. We believe, however, that even if these are solved, there will still be its most serious problem, the problem of nature itself, since the orientation of this fund is firm in the context of and the conditions laid down by the NSRP, namely extroversion, attraction of individuals, entrepreneurship, privatization, price increases, returns - which are well known - and even though the government insists that it ensures the maintenance of its public character, the EBRD is not a tool for the development of culture for the benefit of the people's population, but rather a lever for the benefit of business investment and profit. And here, of course, is the well-known "DIZOMA" and its role, which is, in fact, a private archaeological service. And, by the way, we should ask what is going to happen with that 1% of the budget that public buildings should have for their artistic decorations, a provision that has been passed for twenty-one years since 1997. We have brought an amendment and you rejected it last year. What are you going to do about it? The second example is that 1.5% of television channels have to pay for the production of films. To date, not a single private channel has paid this amount and no energy has been done to make it compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u101	I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. What cultural policy is it that allows in the 21st century uninsured industries of creators who, while taxing themselves from the first euro, such as visual artists, and with a tax of up to 52% of their wages, eventually go to public hospitals as insurers, with a 25% share of medicines? We could say too much, Mr President. However, what we want to note is that for capitalists and politicians, of course, cultural heritage and arts are another field of business, a valuable source of profitability. For us, for the JRC, on the contrary, cultural heritage is a source of knowledge about the development of human society and a study of the conditions that have highlighted ancient civilizations, moral and aesthetic values and is an invaluable tool for understanding the past in order to address today's problems in the interests of the vast majority. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. When you see fifty-seven MPs from the Officerial Response Party asking this question, the self-evident gathering that some great harm is happening in the field of culture, some very great evil comes. Let's see, is that right? Austrian Ernst Fisher wrote history with the book - "The Need for Art", which describes situations intact for a lot of people. Let's see what he said in this book. Arts, whether we like it or not, are one of the main pillars of culture, it is not the only one, but culture. So it was when Ernst Fisher said in this dreadful book that when Beethoven built the Ninth, he was swept away, yuhajed him. When Van Gogh painted "Heavy" with wild faces of the farmers at the time and the necklace, no one had ever taken a hampari. And when Dominikos Theotokopoulos painted the destruction of Toledo, few understood what was going to come. Art has always been a precursor of the reality that will follow, the real art. Are these related to the timely question? In my opinion, they do. We are living a reality, I would say, that no one disputes it, where everything is almost equalized on the altar of profits and money, everything is populated worldwide. I'm not just talking about Greece. At least they have customs and customs. Everyone works, like, by a common rule. Values have been thrown away, everything has been abolished, appear offshore, economic heavens, etc. It's time for art! So I am surprised - and I welcome it - that fifty-seven members of the Officerial Representation - and I say it with respect, not with ironic tone - are dealing with the issue of culture. But let's see, is that right? First of all, when Mumulides spoke, I felt awe, because I have met him as a great artist, a shocking artist, as well as the Minister. He grew up as a director in Art and Mrs. Connordos as a student of Carolus Koon, who we know very well whether they have offered culture or not. I say that art and culture was when Hatzidakis at the "Fleshed Grove" made the composition "The Smile of Jokoda". Culture, rather, was when Kavafis wrote "Ithaca". Culture was when George Javellas made the "Callical Pound", a shocking work. Culture was when Michael Cacoyannis made "Stella" or "The girl with black". But I want to remind you of some unpleasant memories. In Macronissi, Nikos Kundouros has been prospered. So respectful they had for this man those who deal with culture! And I'm not talking to you. So is Manos Katrakis, and so is Thanasis Veggos and many others. When we read - and were shocked - "A child counts the stars" of Menelau Ludemi, we could not imagine what this man had been through in Macronisi. And yet, the great peacemaker, Gregory Lambrakis, who died in a dirty, immortal way and his only flaw was that he fought for peace from the first to the last minute and was a Schwitzer in his place. Who, really, are they responsible for this? When Kazantzakis was mingling all over the planet, some were blaming him. Who? I could speak endless hours about who really created culture in this country. I don't put on labels. I have listened with great respect to Mr Tassoula - he is not in the Chamber now. He knows about it. Is that enough? I say, no. In a society where money, profit has leveled everything, it's a form of oxymomile. The Greek, for example, had to be done? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What was heard by your party: "You do not finish the Greek". Isn't it culture to respect monuments? It's done, and the investment is done. Isn't it culture to guard your environment? An entire county, Halkidiki, is suffering. The whole world knows. Shouldn't rules be in? Is it a culture or not to protect the environment? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not want to say much and I do not think I will need more time, Mr President. Words are easy. Acts are difficult. Three generations, which you ruled, have grown up with meals, with gossip, with a powerful private TV, which distorted every concept of culture, leveled everything. I'd be glad if you'd done anything about it. You've done nothing. And if anything happens today, she's getting cowardly in a bankrupt country that's getting back up slowly. I don't dream. Remember, he had a German occupation when Angelos Sicilyanos - the one who first established the assembly in Delphi, for those who do not know it - when the German weapons were at the funeral at the time of the great Kostis Palamas and wrote a shocking poem, "Sound the Payanes". This is a culture and not a levelling-up, which we today accept as a reality, and I am very sorry that some are not doing anything. We're trying to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Ioannis Saridis, from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read the current question of the Members of the New Democracy and I agree with the timeliness of its character. Unfortunately, however, the text would have been equally timely, five years ago and ten years ago, and I fear very much, even worse, that it would be topical in 2025 or possibly in 2030. I will avoid special comment, where New Democracy has identified him, on the points where he has been identified. It is great, believe me, that the temptation to turn against the government for its failures and for its omissions to the NRP programmes and the operation of museums. At the same time, however, there is also a great deal of temptation to ask the colleagues in the New Democracy why the establishment plan of the EDF became old, anachronistic and outdated within three years or why in 2014 we did not have the electronic ticket in our country. I believe, however, that it is more useful in today's debate for the Central Association to take a different approach, putting its own questions in a more general context. I ask, then, without necessarily waiting and answering: do we really give as a political staff and as a citizen value to our culture as much as we like to proclaim? Do we understand that our culture is one of two - three elements which makes us Greek, at a time when our values began to be tested in forgotten ways? Do we understand that cultural development cannot exist if our culture is not part of education and education, but with a modern marriage, which will be away from both ancient academia and pseudo-neutral isotopeic perceptions? Can we understand - and of course we can prove it in practice - how stateism, which in the field of culture - is really suffocating, is in fact more strangling than protecting the emergence of our culture? Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our problem is not the recording of problems in the field of culture. The New Democracy has done so with its question: Recording of the problems. Our problem is not even a lack of planning to deal with them. Fine announcements will do when the time comes, Minister, fine announcements will be made for the future design by the Ministry's leadership. Unfortunately, our main problem is how we treat culture as a tourist product or a parameter of our national economy alone. We have collectively forgotten that the legacy of our ancestors and modern creations is our right to be part of our well-being. When the governments concerned have a policy in the field of culture, as is the case in the last thirty years, it has been doomed to fail. We are neglecting ourselves as citizens and neglecting ourselves as politicians. To change this, culture must deepen education. If that is the case, our future colleagues - representatives of a generation who I am glad to see that she is more concerned than my generation - will have the hope of repeating today's debate in a more favourable context and - above all - with a completely different target. Minister, to give you the essence of today's debate, I will tell you what I was reading before I entered the Chamber: "Close museums and archaeological sites in Attica and Crete. An archbishop strike". I know it's part of your responsibility. You will manage it and you will find a solution to it, because it is within your responsibilities and is within the time of this government. Minister, you will allow me to say that if you cannot answer the four questions I have just asked you, after you have evaluated them, then I very much regret that a second responsibility you have, namely, to take the country on other roads to future generations, you will not be able to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Department of the Experimental Gymnasium of Lifelong School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, George Mavrotas, has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. In six minutes, of course, and I will not be able to deal with the eighteen questions of the New Democracy question, but I have a few questions to raise. Yes, culture for our country can be a development tool, just as long as we see it without nibbles and blocs and see how we can optimise its role. Culture involves essentially two things, cultural heritage and culture production, modern culture. We have the privilege of cultural heritage to be one of the most gifted peoples. But have we exploited it? That's a time-consuming question. It is not only about the three years in which SYRIZA is governed. Do we have the right structures and procedures? For example, what is the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations, the famous EDF? Is what former President Aspia Luvi said six months ago at "Kathemerini" in her interview or by Philaretos Alikaridis a month and a half ago in "AFTER"? I am referring to this so as not to say that I have one-sided information. What about the online ticket? Are there groups that react to transparency, control and accountability because they have been reconciled with a transparent regime? With simply Greek, can public money be handled without control in the year 2018? Is the ministry hostage to strike threats and closure of archaeological sites? What about the archaeological refreshments? Let me just go to the NRP: given the inherent difficulty of several Special Management Services, the so-called EEAS, to meet the requirements of the cultural projects, we have also heard the reasons for the fact that there is no specific sectoral programme for culture, but there is a risk that projects will not be completed in the current programming period, with a negative impact on the absorption of the NRP resources. Can the final structure of the NRV of the Ministry of Culture, ESAOL, perform the functions of an intermediate management body or require legislation? And if necessary, when do you see her? Will the entry of ETAOL directly to the Minister not create more delays and bureaucracy? What is the extent to which projects carried out and phasing projects? As for the National Gallery, will it be possible to implement it without the sponsorship of the Stavros Niarchor Foundation? Concerning Tymvos Kasta in Amphipolis, the decision to join the project clearly shows the delay in approved studies. Approximately 2/3 of the studies are missing. Is the project finally going to be implemented? As for the National Archaeological Museum, is there any provision for upgrading the region as a whole? It is an area that, as we know, is adjacent to the historic building of the National Technical University of Athens, a building which unfortunately often becomes an intrusion of intrusion. However, we should also go to the implementation of the actions relating to the area of contemporary culture and entrepreneurship in the cultural and creative industries. Has the implementation of the actions been carried out and what is the time provision for their integration? What actions do you intend to take to speed up the implementation of these actions that are important to modern culture and its professionals? Modern civilization, in all its appearances, is undoubtedly the great victim and the election announcements and promises. It just survives the lifestyle and the honor of some people. There was no politics, no vision, no mood for continuity and serious planning. Of course, all this leads to introverty, rosététés and a system of customer relations for grants. The example of the theatre is characteristic. In grants, the logic of "sharing a few to many" creates dependent customers, but without giving potential to the space. We need criteria, transparency, accountability, to get away from the "meterocracy" that does not account to anyone, and that also applies to the administration of the Ministry, which, if it is the case with the other ministries, we are seeing more and more frequent notices that adapt to the qualifications of the chosen ones. The dismantling of public administration does not mean ‘restriction’. In 2021 we will have Elefsina Cultural Capital of Europe and it is an opportunity to marry ancient history and tradition at the modern glance. We're running tests there. Let me go to a field that we have not exploited as much as we could: the synergies between sports events and cultural heritage, when in Greece we have global sports brands, such as Marathon, because of the Marathon, the Panathinaikos Stadium, where there were the first modern Olympic Games, Olympia, but also dozens of parts of Greece where we can combine sports events with cultural routes. In fact, the Council of Europe is preparing a report to which I have undertaken a rapporteur entitled 'Strengthening the relationship between popular sporting events and cultural heritage'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute more, Mr. President. This is, of course, a matter for the Council of Europe, but the great potential of our country in this area must also be demonstrated. In conclusion, as we are in sport and sport is culture - as far as it does not seem, as we saw yesterday - let me refer to yesterday's incidents in Toumba. In the overall disapproval, let me as a former athlete praise the athletes of both groups who stood up to the occasion. The PAOK leader, in fact, refused his president's encouragement to leave the team. Unfortunately, however, the way we have done it is not these protagonists, but the players, sometimes couriers, fans, lawyers, judges and the media. As long as football is not played in the field, but in the courtrooms, so the people will be removed and the people responsible must go home and watch it from TV, which I hope will continue to show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three colleagues from the honourable Members, Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, Mr Konstantinos Tasou and Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, who have secondary dates. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for five minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u109	Madam Minister, I think the procedure was revealing. It was revealing the act and the wrong choices that are always following your ministerial service. This inappropriateness has also been expressed from the time of the following verbs: 'We support','support', 'develop', 'grow'. After a year and a half you've been at the Ministry, it's done on a very lasting basis, I guess, I'd say, to inertia. But the inertia commission never solved any problem. I wonder: Is this inappropriate, these wrong choices were that the Prime Minister rewarded in the last remodelling? I wonder: Does he know what really is going on in your ministry? Madam Minister, you have not convinced anyone today. You are obviously not aware of the scope and substance of the administrative mechanism of the Ministry, in which you head. There is no excuse for your nonexistent political reflexes. During your term of office you have been invited to deal with matters of particular importance to culture. So talk to us about someone who has rendered it. None. Stop talking about the past. That's the easy one. The issue - and the difficult one - is to deal with the present. You still haven't managed to put a series of important issues in it. You act as if you don't have contact with reality. You also know from your art that culture requires vision, design, timing, know-how. It is therefore regrettable that you are dealing with the major issues in the area of culture with such a handfulness, in the same way as parliamentary control. I say this so that SYRIZA's representative can hear it. This timely question has been tabled on several occasions, but the Minister did not consider that he should answer it. It has been tabled for the first time in May 2017, for the second time in October 2017 and we are discussing it today, in March 2018, after ten months and of course the issues are running. The world of culture expresses its concern. I repeat that the new organization of the Ministry was structured solely on the basis of the ambitions of your party friends and not the needs of modernising the sector. The supervisory bodies of the Ministry have been left to their fate with administrative gaps and inertia everywhere. This is the case in the FAA, the executive arm of the Ministry. There is no organisation, there is not enough staff, there is no development plan, and instead of putting the issue of the EDF as a priority for your planning, you downgrade it and you collapse it, proclaiming ongoing controls. Really, Minister, what's your goal? Is it the dissolution of the EDF? We told you about the revenues too. You're not even able to invest them properly. Last year was 17 million, this year 25 million, which have not yet been collected. In April, as we said, the tourist season opens. You have not yet completed the recruitment procedures for seasonal staff for museums and archaeological sites. Have you realised that for the second consecutive year the canisters in the most popular archaeological sites will remain closed? What are you going to sell and sell in the archaeological sites? Nothing at all. Overall incapacity is shown by making use of the means offered to upgrade the cultural sector. And don't tell me about the sectoral programme, because the culture only had in the Third Community Support Framework. In the NSRF 2007-2013, there was no sectoral programme, but we had OPs and Competitiveness and 654 projects were carried out by the Ministry. I repeat: With RDP and Competitiveness. While in December 2014 we secured from the European Union for 2014-2020 340m euros, from these three years later you have not activated half. You cannot absorb the funds of the NRP to complete programmes and actions launched by previous programmes. I wonder: Have you realised that these funds will be lost definitively and irrevocably? Have you considered the damage? Do you have any bearing in mind that the projects will remain incomplete? The same topics exist in the case of GNI, a chapter in which you divest for your absolute indulgence, while the creators are struggling for the money they are due for and for their future in terms of wages for their spiritual creation. You have just brought a legally controversial parliamentary amendment a year ago on the appointment of a Commissioner for GNI. This was supposed to be an emergency measure until you brought the law in the summer. You have brought the law to which you do not actually give any solution, in fact you have been improvised, you have ignored the spirit of the Community directive, you have taken no account of what we have said, of transparency, accountability and the defence of the public interest, and since then you have still brought in emblematic solutions, and you are actually trying to keep the matter to 'do not dig'. All in all, then, there is no strategic plan, and all you do is make continuous announcements of euphoria, baptize failure, loss of income increase, lack of organization. You only give systematic commitment is misinformation. But my final question is whether your strategy for culture is summarised in the dissolution of the structures of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and its delivery to some extra-institutional saviors and all-readers. And whoever is here knows what I'm talking about, knows very well what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is the property of the country, it is a public good, and you as a representative of a left-wing government have had to serve it. But we said: Another myth collapsed with an unpleasant conclusion is one, that the Left in power seriously harms the culture of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Constantine Tasoulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u111	Madam Minister, I have heard your answer. They are purely serviced and reminded me of an account of an exorbitant club and not of the Greek Ministry of Culture. There are issues on which there are time-consuming responsibilities. One point on which there are time-consuming responsibilities for the fact that the Ministry of Culture does not do everything - and it does not only concern your own governance - is that it is - and we must admit it - that the term of office of the Ministers of Culture is usually too small. We like it, we do not like it, there is a personal element in the exercise of politics in Greece, so when three ministers have changed in the last three years, as in the previous years every minister has changed, this results in fatal and time-consuming - it is not the present problem - to have an impact on the Ministry's performance. You see that we see things in good faith, but it is supposed that the coming of the Left was not to repeat the mistakes of the past, but it was done for undoubted reasons, but we do not see them. So since I did this self-criticism, I have to tell you that lack of sectoral programme is not a problem at present. The last time there was a sectoral programme for culture was with the CSF for 1999-2004. Since then, the Ministry of Culture has lacked a sectoral programme. This is due to a choice made by the European Union, which does not prefer sectoral programmes, but also to one initiative, to a Greek priority, which did not favour it. But, from 2004 onwards, what you are all bound up with is lacking. However, they are competitively claiming programmes from both the regions and the Ministry of Development, which they manage to get in much larger numbers. You said the absorption of the previous program reached 97%. If there wasn't the total inaccuracy of 2015 that you weren't Minister at the time - the absorption would reach 107%. The fact that there are works such as the Museum of Samothrace, the Museum of Alexandroupolis, the Museum of Aeges or other museums, such as Chania or the National Gallery, which absorb resources from a previous programme, proves that 35m euros from the previous program are satisfied through the new one. So the EUR 35 million is lacking as new projects, because they exactly cover the needs of the previous ones. This is mainly due to the total inappropriateity noted by the Ministry in 2015. So it's not that simple. It is a crucial service for the absorption of funds. I would also like to say to you that there is still time in the context of the European Year of Cultural Heritage, which is clearly and silently spent, as part of the 2020 strategy, Europe is convinced to implement a cultural programme, since it is convinced that this also favours the development of countries. This issue was raised by the speaker, Ms. Minister, at the Summer Palace of the House of Savoy in Turin in autumn 2014, presenting this famous study by your Ministry, which demonstrates that 1 million investment in culture brings, in a five-year perspective, an excessive impact on the economy, the fight against unemployment and the improvement of the competitiveness of the areas where these investments are made. And since Europe, well or badly, is now oriented towards economics and growth and economic criteria and not only on ideological or theoretical criteria, this study must be returned to the arsenal of our arguments for new programmes and new resources, vertically in favour of culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Tasoula, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u113	I'm still in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u114	You're not in your time. I was wrong, and I put you five minutes. It's three minutes your dentistry. It's okay. Just finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u115	I conclude, because we are talking about culture, making a correction, which was obviously inadvertently heard. But because we are talking about culture, we have to talk about that. The Delphi Days, which Sicilyan and his wife Eve Palmer did, did not happen during the Occupation. They took place between 1927 and 1931. Indeed, it is very interesting, because I heard the spokesman of the Communist Party, that "RIZOSOPASTIS" was one of the newspapers that fought the Delphi feasts, describing them as "excessive events of the urban state". The shocking lyric of Sicilyan at the funeral of Palama in February 1943 was not "speak pagans". It was: "Sound the trumpets... Cambane brothers, vibrate the country all the way... Voga played! The flags of Lefteria, unfold in the air!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you said in your prology that you listened to the New Democracy Members who were very patient. If you listened to us with great patience, I would like to inform you that the patience of the inhabitants of Amphipolis, the inhabitants of Serres Prefecture and, of course, the inhabitants of Macedonia has been saved, Minister. And, you know, he's been saved, because three years now they've been collecting insults, sometimes wishing wishes, but surely the common denominator is abandoning the irradiation of this monument. And you know, Minister, I tell you because this weekend, I was in the Amphipolis region, and I assure you there was no resident, a citizen who wouldn't tell you not to exclaim a vast, 'why'. Why this abandonment? Because, Minister, you have not found the time in twenty-five minutes of your speech, in your densely written management speech, to give an answer. I would like to believe that you will, of course, give your dentistry and I look forward to listening to you. I repeat, when will the work provided for in the NRP finally begin, to which we entered in a sense? What's the clear timetable? And what phase will you deliver the monument, Minister, if the budgets and timetables are respected? Will the monument be a visit? Because that's how you let it spread. We want a clear answer, then, Minister, not only for maintenance, not only for the protection and promotion of this grand monument, but also for the fate of the most important programme of bone analysis. It is a programmed contract of EUR 236,000 committed by your predecessor, Mr. Tasoula, between the Ministry of Culture, the Democritus University of Thrace and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki for the examination of a thousand skeletons, namely nine hundred ninety five skeletons from the area of Amphipolis and five from Lofos Kastas, dating back to 100 BC. Until 200 C.E. It's a study you buried in the drawers, you let it go untrue until July 2017 and you didn't bother to inform the masters and teachers of its fate. A study, Minister, which would be another valuable, indisputable, historical argument for the Greekity of Macedonia, another abstract response to the counterfeiters of our history. You have not given any response, too - and I am ending with your tolerance, Mr President - to the wealth that you have deprived of my prefecture, from Macedonia and from all over the country - I shall dare say - of the failure to exploit this golden monument. At what time, Minister, when, according to the latest SETE data on central Macedonia, 21% of arrivals are projected, 15% increase in costs, while the number of visitors to cultural tourism is expected to exceed that of traditional sun and sea tourists? Do you consider, in the Ministry of Culture and the Government, what the gains that have been gained from the abandonment of this monument for tourism, for investment, for jobs? Do you think of your responsibility, Minister, that you lack resources and prospects from a society and an economy that, with your fundamental policies, is being purified? Answers, Minister, because here!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u119	There are so many questions that we should have a whole day at our disposal to answer seriously and fully. I would like to stand on what has been said. Indeed, culture, especially in today's era, is the compass that helps shape Europe and the world tomorrow's image. We have been filled for years to hear how culture is the heavy industry. At the moment, however, it is a common conscience, especially of the countries of Europe, that culture is a key factor in the formation of tomorrow. At all the meetings in Europe and internationally a key topic for discussion is how we create the new Europe through culture, how we create a new world that we want to live in, have a social person and not be delivered to greedy profit. I would like to return to more of our issues because they have been raised. And I have to answer not because we lack vision and great breath, but these were the things you have asked and I think you want to hear the answer. It's not just communications. I would therefore like to tell you about the Archaeological Resources Fund. Many wondered about the online ticket. There's a big difference. Right now, there's a contractor. At the moment it has submitted the implementation study and a full schedule. At the end of May, therefore, there will be an electronic ticket, which will be piloted in the areas notified, and its implementation will be an example of the extension of this application to other sites, if resources are found. Epicurian Apollo is also an issue that goes ahead. At the end of March, the technical bulletin from the LAG Ilias, in collaboration with the central offices of the Ministry, for the roof and the restoration. And here I want to agree with you, Mr. Javarra. At the moment, the services of the Ministry of Culture, people who work nights for all these works understaffed, the Egos are making heroic efforts, so that we can catch up with all these projects. I would remind you that there are other projects arising from the major technical projects, which require new excavations, new resurgences and preservations. I'm coming to Amphipolis. Amphipolis is a story that undoubtedly represents one of the most important archaeological findings in Greece. But we believe that the way the monument was revealed did not respect the archaeological times. Here I say very often that archaeologists are taking centuries and handing them over to centuries. So archaeological scout needs quiet, calm, it takes its time. Here there was an emphasis on the communication track and there was no sufficient time left for this monument to be revealed gradually. The services of the Ministry of Culture did their duty, because the monument, having been revealed, had great needs for fixing, supporting and intervening in the rainwater, so that they could not destroy the monument further. The monument was under pressure from a different level and weight. As long as it was in the earth, it was protected. Now it's completely unprotected. That is why the services have emphasised the protection and fixing of the monument. However, as you know, this monument has now entered the course through the INTERREG and through the ESDP, in cooperation with the region and, therefore, has been in the process of making the restoration progress so that it can be delivered to the inhabitants. We really believe with you that a monument is an issue, a possibility of developing the region and working in that direction, but we cannot lie that this will happen tomorrow. It takes time and we see it from other such flagship monuments that take a year to restore, be a visit and give to local communities and visitors. It has now been mentioned very extensively on the subject of cultural diplomacy and the contacts that have been made abroad. There is a very large activity, which has actions that follow. It is not just a signature of memorials and words, as was the case with Russia and China. There is a large number of activities, exhibitions, exchanges, theatre, dance, traditional music, exhibitions of archaeological and contemporary culture. We should have eaten a lot of time for this, but I can assure you that there is a very great and interesting program that will be unfolded in 2018 and, as we agreed with the Chinese Minister for Culture, our desire to continue in the next five years. Also, there is a very interesting collaboration with Italy, which will already be implemented this summer, with the cooperation of the Athens Festival and the corresponding South Italian Festival, a similar to other actions with Opera Rosini and the Lyric Scene, with our National Theatre. There is also Serbia with the two national theaters with which they will cooperate. For the first time, however strange it may seem to you, there is a memorandum of cooperation with Cyprus. I would like to emphasise an integrated programme that we have done around the theatre: we take the children out of the schools, which no one knows and who no longer have the opportunity - and here I reply to you, Mr Deli - to pay some place to rehearse and give the infrastructure of the Ministry of Culture and indeed the Congregation of Music to these new, unknown children. Almost fifty shapes of dance, theatre and music made their rehearsals free in these great places of the Concert Hall of Music. These new children presented their work, again completely free of charge, through our collaboration with Piraeus Municipal Theatre. With the grants, we stopped this curse and the enormous difficulties that had arisen in the free theatre, which is, in fact, the nursery. This is where the new theatre forces are born, except for our great state theatres. We had to reactivate grants for theatre and dance. But that's not all we did. We have passed a code which will now permanently ensure grants to the free theatre - and hopefully also to the dance - so that it is not something that will happen, that it is not something that the Minister will want, but that it is a constant cultural policy for free theatre and dance. Also, with extroversion and with the support of the PPC, through the previous but, above all, through the current programming contract, which includes incentives and rigorous evaluation criteria, we upgrade the work in the region, focus on young people, focus on jobs, focus on cooperation between PPC and other relevant theaters abroad. The incentives are precisely economic, so that we can support these initiatives, so that the institution of the PPC is upgraded, which is a very important institution for a true democracy in the area of culture. It is triggered - because this question has been raised - by the sponsorship of the "Nearch". There was an application to cancel the dissolution by the Contracting Company and thus the contractor's work will continue with the activation of the sponsorship "Nigarch" in the Gallery. Culture is a public good. We are working intensively for a culture for everyone, inclusive, socially throughout the country, with a spirit of cooperation, extroversion, transparency and, finally, rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Because, Minister, I do not want to blame you, in fact, for having to admit that you were much more accessible and more understandable in your dentistry. I think we have received answers on several issues. But secondly, I would like to point out a very serious issue - in my opinion - which you have raised in your prototype, that of financial aid or - better - the guarantee by the Ministry of Resources to strengthen local film production. You realise very well that these hours of the economic crisis of the creators in the cinema area is of enormous importance. Because cinemas beyond their aesthetics come across the country and a number of secondary consequences, which are profitable both at economic level and at cultural level and at a level that makes the whole world look after Greece. Received a law, Law 3905/2010 and a ministerial decision of August 2012. In these two regulatory texts ERT, subscription channels and private channels are obliged to give ERT 1.5% of its turnover, and private channels are obliged to pay 1.5% of advertising revenue to boost local film production. Instead, with Law 4487 you have come and reduced and limited this resource in terms of subscription channels and limited the basis for calculating only 1.5% of advertising revenue. Because you accused us of handing you a very low-level situation that you were no longer able to create what you wanted and prevented from the badly holding in the Ministry of State, I would like to ask you this: What have you done to date to collect this money and to return it to the creators? This question I had asked Mr Xydakis as well, and he had promised me that he would indeed be active, coordinate all the actions needed so that the film makers would once get what they deserve. And if you haven't done anything yet, I won't hurt you, because I know there's strong resistance from the channels. However, because you are all people who must join us in giving a struggle to become culture - not only the ancient one who has surrendered to us, but also the modern one, which our country daily creates - a high priority in all the efforts of all political parties, so I tell you to try in this direction and you will also have our support.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Madam Minister, do you want to comment on something or give an answer, why are we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u123	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u124	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u125	On the subject of the Cinema Center and on the subject of cinema in Greece, as you know, a cash rebate law has passed, which gives 25% for production and foreign and Greek and this is a very important aid in the development of producers in Greece. I would like to stress that the Film Centre for the Hellenic Film Commission is currently the first director. This is a very important step, which had not been activated since 2010, as foreseen by the law. Since March 2017, the Hellenic Film Commission operates as a primary contact point for professionals from abroad and offers them information, possibilities for contacting film licenses in the country and connecting them to Greek producers. The Hellenic Film Commission has also been active strongly at the Cannes Festival, the Berlin Festival and other centres where there are activities around cinema to promote our country so that it can promote the wealth of the landscape in our country and the opportunities for this country to become friendly to cinema. The Ministry of Culture supports the Cinema Centre to the extent that we can, work and make a great deal of effort to ensure the percentage of advertising revenue from television stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on topical Question No 6/26-10-2017, on 'Inability of the Government to develop a strategy and address cultural issues'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-12-S1-commons.u127	With the consent of the House at 21.13 p.m. the sitting for the next Wednesday, 14 March 2018, at 13.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
