ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 194-2018 authorisation, its minutes of Thursday 19 April 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the President of the Council, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Constitution of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the Competent Authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’.]] Fifty years ago, democracy, the city that was established in our country centuries ago, was hard hit. She was tested, but once again, historically, that her foundations are so strong that they can withstand the larger waves of division. It was April 21, 1967, the day when the Greeks and Greeks woke up seeing the tanks in the streets of Athens and the reptiles stepping on their souls. This drama would last seven years and unfortunately it cost us dearly. The invasion of the Turks in our testimony Megalonissos, our Cyprus, was the culmination of the drama that our country experienced over the days of the junta of the colonists. These nightmare memories we must all unitedly prevent them from ever living again in the future. The moments that our country is going through today are just as critical. The so-called 'neighbours' show us again ready to take advantage of our slightest mistake. Under no circumstances should we give them the minimum right, but at the same time defending every inch of the Greek land and every inch on our beaches. Our teaching must be the policy drawn up in 1974, with the return of a great politician of modern Greece, Constantine Karamanlis. Proof is that the country has then returned unreservedly to democracy, with the help of aggregations of the political forces at that time. So we have to think today. Because, I stress it again, the days are dangerous and demand that all of us walk along with wisdom and harmony. This is the path they have shown fifty-one years ago, the fighters of the anti-Digitatural struggle and whom we are honouring today for the battles they have given so that democratic values can be held up in the Greek web. Despite the enormous economic difficulties facing and facing our people over the last eight years, it has shown in every political test that democracy is its only option. While an important part of Europe turns to the most extreme solutions, Greeks and Greeks prove why this corner of the world is called a valley of democracy. We are a country which has earned its role within the European family and which is a strong and equal member of the European Union, ready at all times to defend its borders, but which are also a European border. Our only aim is to achieve a better future with our partners based on the values of peace, progress, security and democracy, away from the catastrophic division that has cost us so much, as I said before - the loss of half of our Cyprus. However, I would like to stress one more point here. Greece must not stand alone against the nationalist storms that come from its side of the coast. We are members, at all costs, of the European Union and of the Atlantic Alliance, and those who want to call our allies to prove it not only in words but in practice. Speaking of which, we're full. The Greek Parliament, with all the attacks it has taken, continues to be the guardian and the basis of safeguarding the democratic principles and values of our country. It is the highest service to democracy and the nation, which we can offer to those who have lost their lives to live free and have kept democracy upright in our country fifty years ago. Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate I would like to make two announcements. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House on 13-3-2018 a criminal case law concerning the Member and Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Secondly, the Minister of Migration Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Interior, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Health, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign and Maritime Policy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics submitted on 19-4-2018 a draft law: ‘Adjustment of Greek Legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013 and other provisions). Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer. Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions.’; It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Monday 23 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1517-17-4-2018 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1510/16-2018 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Mr.Joyaka, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Project for the abolition of the Department of Business Administration of the Epirus TEI and the operation of the Intercultural Communication Department in Igoumenitsa". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, dated 1498-16-2018, on the subject: "The need for an initiative to strengthen anti-crime policy following the recent occurrences of violent crimes in residentials and the lifting of the unfair nature of the acts of victims' reaction". 4. The 1516-17-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 5. The 1519-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the debts to IKA/EFKA. 6. The question by number 1504/16-4-2018 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the Athens Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Adjustment of late debts of employees and pensioners towards tax in up to 120 instalments'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1509/16-4-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1489/12-2018 of the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The self-defense following an attack inside the house." 3. The 1515-17-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 4. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. 5. The 1511/16-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Summary of patients from the EKAB to private clinic Intensive Clinics Units". 6. The question raised by Mr Andreas Loverdos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Lover, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, only two topical questions will be discussed. However, I will first mention the topical questions which will not be discussed. There is a letter from the Secretary of Government on the grounds of the absences of the Ministers. The fifth under number 1378/22-2018, a top-level question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the hazardous waste of the Hellenic Republic FRYSOS in CHYTEA, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member of Parliament. The question under number 4126/217/3-2018 and application for the submission of documents by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the public contribution to cover part of the debt of natural persons in borrowing housing loans and the need to extend the contribution to the guarantors will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Ioannis Drasakis. The sixth question under number 1261/6-3-2018, the first question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Publics, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Bioscosy of the Factory of the Greek Industry of Sugar in Orestia", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. The first question with number 1792/4-12-2017 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of a programme of cross-border cooperation between Greece and Italy (2014-2020) with regard to the Municipality of Paxos, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis. The third, with number 1388/23-2018, topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turks conduct smuggling of tobacco within Greek territorial waters", will not be discussed as a result of an obstacle by the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis. Because he's going to be in Alexandroupolis. Also, the fourth question with number 144-27-2018, the first question of the Dodecanese MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Construction within areas of jurisdiction of the administration and port exploitation", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis. Because he's going to be in Alexandroupolis. We are now starting with the debate on the first under No 1508/16-4-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of “Egyal corrosion and impacts on coastal areas of the prefecture of Achaia”. The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Socrates Famelos. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the phenomenon of coast erosion in the northern Peloponnese is extremely intense. From the Black Stones, which are basically the border with Corinthia, Igira, Longos, Sellianitika, all this part of the Corinthian Gulf, and on the other hand, on the west side of Achaia, on the part of Brahneika to Kalamaki, the problem is really very intense. On the one hand, there is a need for a scientific study on what we should do and how restoration should be, on the other hand, climate change has brought about huge problems. Public and private land is being lost, public and private infrastructure is being destroyed. What I would like to know is for the Ministry to take care of the other, which is also important, if there is State or European funds so that we do not really lose our shores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsaniotis, you have indeed raised a very important issue, a modern problem. Coastal erosion has been a phenomenon which has been very much concerned with our country in recent years and I must tell you that it is not just about Achaea. I have here evidence to show us that in Crete, for example, 756 km from 1.142 shores have erosion issues, as they have problems in central Macedonia, which I found some numbers. We can tell you that about 30% of Greece's coast has effects of erosion. But to talk about dealing with the causes too. The causes are three: one is the climate, which you mentioned, and the intense changes in climate. Climate change has brought about changes in the conditions and rates of corrosion. But there are also consequences, if you like, because of anthropogenic interference. The interventions made by man over time on the beach, the uses of land developed, some of the port projects that could have been carried out without planning and, in general, an arbitrary nature that existed in the field of the management of the Aegean Sea and the failure to regulate this area is the second cause. The third is the natural phenomenon of corrosion. You know that the coastlines over time were shaped by natural phenomena and by the movement of sea streams. There are also functions of the sea that cannot be suspended. But the important thing is the prevention that the state is doing. You will allow me to ask the state and give it the prevention issues, namely what we are doing for climate change, for anthropogenic interventions and for the suspension of natural phenomena and to see the locality of responsibilities. So we think that the institutional framework identifies and is clear. In order to be able, if you like, to plan actions, I will refer to three strategic studies carried out by the state. One is the Plan for the Management of Water Residue River Lefkos, which was completed at the end of December, has been ratified with FEK on our own signature and is a design that was missing about six years from our country. That is the delay on the basis of the European Union. I would simply point out that on this issue, the European Union has already imposed a heresy on resources for flooding, anti-corrosion, irrigation and sewerage projects, which have been completed. The second is flood risk management plans because the flood is linked to water erosion. These are validated next month. It is the first design that is being planned in our country, because until now our country has not prevented this European directive, and in the past the administration has not chosen to implement it. There are responsibilities, but I will not go into them. The third is the plan to adapt to climate change. And here is a law that is the National Climate Change Adjustment Plan. There are specifications for regional plans for climate change and there is already the start of a study in the region. In turn, then, I can tell you that the project "Revised waste water basin management plans" provides for measures to be implemented, that is, in the country's operational plan, the measures to be taken and the studies to be carried out... [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, you will allow me to continue. As also in the Law on the National Climate Change Adjustment Strategy, Law 4414/2016, along with the approval by the Greek Parliament of the Treaty of Paris on climate, there are corresponding strategic forecasts. Two are the areas where we have the greatest erosion phenomena: the delta coast, where the river delta ends, and the soft sediment coast, where we have the highest erosion factor. Of course, we also have some rocky beaches or hills where I think the problems are smaller. In the National Customization Strategy, we have found it - the regular management of the issue of corrosion. Perhaps I do not have to go into scientific terminology at the moment, because in the response of the region, which we are going to give you today, there are studies carried out per coast, environmental conditions licenses and cooperation with the University of Patras on the issue of corrosion. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, what I think is more important is to tell you that the Region of Western Greece has recently started drawing up a study - and as I know, the award has been made in February - on dealing with and adapting to climate change that is the local study, as you said, on which shores there are erosion phenomena and how to deal with them. And we chose as a Ministry along with the Region of Western Greece and recently submitted a Life project to adapt to climate change last week, claiming other funding for the region, if you like, and your own and wider knowledge. May I take some time for both the funding and not to abuse parliamentary time or now, Mr President? Or should I make a smaller second speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u5	Go on, Minister. But then Mr. Katsaniotis should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u6	All right, I'll make my second speech smaller. As far as the funds are concerned, there are two sources of funding: the operational programme of the EMFF, which currently has a budget for this action of 17.32 million, for the specific action which is studies on the impact and adaptability of ecosystems on climate change - as you mentioned, it is the issue of corrosion - and at the same time, in the region's operational programme, there are two measures. In the thematic objective 5, as far as I can see, which is a reduction in the flooding and the erosion of the coast, there is a specific measure which also has a budget of EUR 12 million. This action has been specialised, it is 5A1.1. - I tell you, because you may find it in the MAGP budget - and it concerns projects by the municipalities, the public and the region. As also in the thematic objective 6, there is a budget for investment in the protection of protected areas and the restoration of soil and biodiversity, a budget of EUR 3.5 million. Thus, financial instruments that have not yet been activated exist in both the EMEA and the MFF. Perhaps a result of our debate could be the speeding up of the study - already carried out by the region since February - and the proclamation of these measures along with the studies prepared by the region. If anything needs to be done, I'll go on with my denology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u7	Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u8	Minister, since I thank you for the answers you have already given - anyway, it is important, you know, that the ministers are here and respond to the Members, and you are one of those who are always here, I would not say the same for all your colleagues - what is really important is that studying the water resources that were not there, there is. You are absolutely right when you say that in Greece, unfortunately, this part has been neglected not only for six years, but for too many years. But what do we have to tell the citizens, who really lose their property, and they really see their lives becoming too difficult? If you pass, Minister, from areas such as Rio or Long, you really see them being "bombed" areas. The region, three and a half years now - nearly 70% of its term of office - has not done anything. So, for our part, there must be a pressure, so that we can move forward and accelerate both on the regional side and on the part of the Ministry. You know, it is too bad for there to be funds, for there to be a problem, and the citizen really does not see that the state respects it, the state thinks it, the state gives it a solution to his problems. So what I'm going to do from now on is to push to free the funds and complete the studies, so that the problem can be solved, and I'm sure you too will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u10	Very briefly, Mr President, I would like to say that we are indeed in this direction - which is why we are also pressing for the completion of the climate change adaptation plan in the regions - we have incorporated the West Greek Region into the special programme that we have put as Ministry. It is an important option that we have done, because we want to speed up action on climate change. I did not say to you, too, that at the level of prevention - to be, if you will, and full in our responsibilities - we are preparing and in 2018, a draft law on the management of the Aegean Sea, investment and infrastructure projects in the Aegean Sea will be presented, which is very important and solves issues, if you want, the rule of law. Like the land register, forest maps, land-uses, which clarify what can be done where, so the haemalus must be cleared, the areas of investment and environmental protection must be delimited. I am saying this because we are obviously interested in preventing arbitrariness and we must take measures, but also because you are referring to its issue - and let me read exactly what you say in your question - 'unexistent investment activity'. I must therefore, for reasons of order, inform you that in 2017 there was a significant rise in foreign investments, but also in Greek investments. As far as I can see, we have 4 billion foreign investment and around 29% foreign influx growth in our country, while 3 billion have been invested in tourism. These are very important projects. I will see and report to you the Tesla Hub, which has just happened. But what matters is that we also look at the report of the European Central Bank. There, therefore, it says that investment and exports contributed to the growth of the Greek economy in 2017, when we had gross investment of 15.7% in Greece, when the Eurozone worked at 3.7%. There is a possibility, then, that we may change things. It needs a complete design. We need to have prevention and activity adapted to climate change as well. We, for our part, will try, in cooperation with the regions, to intensify the measures, which - I agree with you - are necessary for the safety of citizens and their property in the coastal area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u11	The region of Western Greece is the last in everything you have said: both investment and tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u12	That's not what the Minister is responsible for. He's the district chief. The second question under number 1403/27-2018 will be discussed at the time of the first question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No discrimination in the bank supply of credit and debit cards". The Secretary of State for Economy and Development, Mr Pitsirlas, will answer this question. It is a very interesting question, if we are even getting answers today, because in the written questions which have been answered they have not yet been received by those who have submitted them. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, first of all, to supplement your initial reference to the black anniversary of 21 April today and to highlight the tone and the historical depth of your statement, which Parliament, all of us Members, honours. I would just like to add a reminder, a retreat to the minds of both the MPs and the citizens who are following us, that unfortunately after so many years of blood and pain that have passed so much for the fixing of democracy, we see in Europe a dynamic return to the extreme right and neo-fascist speech, applauded by the citizens, a new form of fascism, and unfortunately we must remember and tell our citizens, who hear and judge us, that in this Chamber, right now, in 2018, there are in Parliament the deniers of democracy, praisers of the junta and heirs of Papadopoulou and the seven-year-year-old.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u14	As you can see, I've tied you time. You are now starting to ask the timely question, because you have rightly made this suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u15	Minister, early September 2017, we had tabled a written question, which I had written and signed fifty-five Members of the SYRIZA, concerning the non-discrimination of commission rates on credit cards or debit cards. The question is very simple, you know it very well, you are also a market man in policy management. The average supply is about 1.5%. The debit card has a zero credit risk, zero credit risk for the bank, and is the card, which all micro-employers and pensioners have in their pocket. In practice, a man with a low income in the years of the crisis is not going to get a credit card. It's very difficult. The time that the credit cards were handed over to the supermarket funds has passed. I ask: small businesses are burdening their client and they are also charged with the same rate of commission in credit and debit. In order for the citizen to be tax-free, to be included in the tax-free, he is almost obliged to use his debit card. Large companies are able to negotiate this. It's not a flat rate in the micro-magazine that makes 500,000 cigarettes and in the big retail chain that makes cigarettes 50 or 80 or 100 million. This creates market distortion and unfair competition. Is it the government's policy to support small businesses, to help them survive, at least not to have unfair competition and distortion from this side? Because the state imposed the use of a credit card and the generalisation of POS. Six hundred fifty thousand POS entered after the capital controls. The tires at the POS are 18 billion for 2017. Our previous Minister had responded with a number of regulations, with references to regulations which did not give any answer to this question, except an answer, which had been given some hope and hope, that the Ministry would ensure and act to set up a procurement monitoring centre for banks, which could work for the benefit of both companies and the Greek consumer. Minister, I expect you to tell us where we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr Xydakis, first of all, I would like to thank you for your insistence on the question and its re-entrustment. The answer I have to give you is as follows: we have spoken with the Banking Union. I recognise that the written answers to most of them were the general question and not that question. So we talked to the Banks Union. We agree that there is a matter. The Banking Union has agreed the same. There is a technical issue, which we are starting to discuss with the DIA at the moment, on how to resolve technically and how to distinguish. So I will be able to tell you the final solution very soon. But I repeat that our position is that there is a matter. That is what the Banking Union says. It is not a question of banks, it is no longer a technical solution with DIAH to distinguish these charges. Secondly, as far as the Observatory is concerned, the specification of the project has been completed, in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Trade with the Economic University, and we are ready to proceed with the proclamation of the project and the search for a contractor for implementation. I therefore think that very soon we will be able to give the final answer. The Observatory should be entrusted to a contractor, in order to implement the issue of charges too, to have the technical solution, in order to implement what we are saying now, that we are committed to finding a solution and to distinguish between two kinds of cards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all I thank you for the preparation and preparation that has been done to get here and give these answers. I think that in the first phase it is satisfactory and show that we are moving. I would like to ask only two things in the two arms of the answer: if you can - and not necessarily me, not even in the Chamber, but with a public disclosure to the citizens - give a schedule for the Charges Observatory, which will be a tangible and effective help to the citizen, his daily relationship with trade, consumption and his economic life. Secondly, if you could - to hear from us the citizens who are following us - tell us a little more about what steps the Banking Union and the banks are going to take, because technically they have enormous potential. Banks collect about 200 million a year from commissions. A small part of this can't reinvest it and provide a solution that will relieve their clients. Their clients are Greek citizens. With their blood they pay the banks. Also, they should stop giving cards. Some of the large systemic banks along with payroll accounts, give people EUR 500 a debit card, a cash card, with an American international badge, which half the stores don't get. They only take it from the gas stations and the big supermarkets. People are found with a card, which they cannot use as a debit, but only to collect cash. This comes out of the general economic policy of the government, which is a major reform in the enforcement of plastic money. These are the two clarifications I wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me say that I am committed to this information immediately. I said before that, with the Banking Union, we have cooperation on this matter and there is no disagreement about the need to do something about it. Together with the Banking Union we will organise the debate immediately in the next few days, with the DIA to find the technical way to separate the charges on the two types of card. On the occasion of the general issues you have raised, however, I would like to say that on many issues relating to consumer protection, with immediate priority in matters relating to the operation of information companies, there will be initiatives in cooperation with the Privacy Authority to improve the whole system for the benefit of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY We will discuss No 1/1/5-10-2017... Is the date wrong? Is it really from 2017? The correct date should be 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u24	It's not wrong. Since 2017 it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u25	It's 2017, since the previous Session.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u26	We'll talk about it in good time. I have to say I've never seen this before. I do not know, Mr Scandalides, if you remember anything similar, because in the same years we have been here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u27	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u28	Anyway. I'm on it. There will therefore be debates No 1/1/5-10-2017 on the topical and urgent question by President Fotini (Photini) Gennamies and Members of the Democratic Group in the PASOK Group - DIMAMAR etc. Georgiou Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras), Kefydidos, Yiannis Koutsoukou, Dimitris Kremastiou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Maniotis, Constantine Barriotas, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantine Scandalidis, Michael Celebrate and Friday Christophilou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The government is persecuting major investment from the country: incapacity or ideological obsessions"? We have the list from the party that has tabled the question. These are the colleagues, Mr Constantinople, Mr Scandalidis, Mr Manatis, Mr Kefalidou, Mr Jellonis, Mr Papatheodorou, Mr Kegeroglou. As far as I can see, there hasn't been any change. Of course, the parliamentary representative is Mr. Loverdos. Any colleague from number two wants me to incorporate the time of his denology into his prototype, to tell me. There will also be a slight tolerance, because we have time today. I will only give Mr Constantinople tolerance, because as the rapporteur he will also want a second word. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. As you would have seen, our question has been tabled on 5-10-2017. The ministers have changed. Mr Pittsorlas was then a competent State Secretary. He didn't come back then. She came seven months later. Mr. Minister, I would expect Mr. Drasakis to come today. I'm not underestimating you, but so intense political flirts are you sending us, Undersecretary? It's important to send us a minister, to understand that flirting at least has some value. Didn't you send us the right messages?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u30	The right bridger sends.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u31	Now let's go to this. Mr President, I am very pleased that you are here today, because you will remember that Mr Pitsirlas, when I asked a question about Golden Visa a year ago, was committed that in a month's time he would be setting up a committee to talk. It's been a year now, Mr. Pittsorla, and a commission for Golden Visa you haven't done. Sadly, you, too, are thrown into SYRIZA's lies and populism. You didn't do it at first, but "Tell me your friends, I'll tell you who you are." Mr. Secretary, after seven months, I'd be waiting for Mr. Drasakis to see this long-lived development how it started, how you thought it could be implemented. Your first commitment was the development bank. It was announced by Mr. Drasakis immediately after the elections. Four years later, not only a development bank does not work, Minister, not a single fund. I shall submit a document on the Minutes. Secondly, because your favorite issue is the Greek, which was one of the biggest investments, I would like to remind everyone - because it is worthwhile - that delays are not done because that is just the mechanism. It is because Mr Tsipras as chief of the opposition officer was at the gatherings and said: "The Greek is not sold." I'll testify the photo in question. Today, in an hour, the bill comes for the sale of PPC. I think there is no more epic photograph from your Chief in Komotini saying: "They sell water, sell PPC, they will soon sell Komotini". I'm going to testify for the minutes this photo. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this, has the government done something essential with which growth could progress fast three years now? The Government announced in 2015 the new development law. In 2016 he filed him. To date, Minister, is there an investment in development law that has taken a euro? Not even an investment! If there's an investment, please deposit it. Not two investments! An investment with the development law that has been financed! Mia! As far as the other instrument is concerned, because the tools that the country has are specifically, it is private investment - unfortunately you have come to answer for others too, but what to do, it is a general issue - it is development law and the ESDP. Minister, some time ago, the entire parliamentary group tabled a provocative motion, I would say, for a government press release, which said that on the basis of the figures sent by the Government itself, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, on 31 December in the European Commission, it was only 412 million. It's the official document. If you want to see it, we've testified it. I wonder why this is happening? We as opposition are not just denounced. We made specific proposals: First, you are incapable of creating a computer system in the SCA and until 31/12-20117 you had not paid a new investment in PAENEC. Is it true, Minister? You didn't make a statement to disprove us. You have to give us a business up to 31-12-2017-a business! - of those programs you've made, which has moved forward? Oh, no! We said why there is this problem. It's the Spirtzi Act and the problem with the State Aid Information System. Let us now see the great investments, like the Greek one. We're in the fourth year of governance SYRIZA - ANEL and it's still not implemented, even though you're asking to get bolts inside. But let us see other investments, such as waterplanes, for example. I shall submit to the Minutes, which reads as follows: 'They are interested in investing 250 million in water routes'. Mr. Spirjis, from time to time, says he'll solve this problem. Do they work this year after three years of hydroplanes? Okay, the previous government was too bad! After three years, are waterplanes operated? How many years do you want to take a responsibility? You want ten, fifteen? How many years do you need to take political responsibility for not doing so? You're in the fourth year of governance. We shall now proceed to the major issues relating to financial instruments, Minister. Financial instruments are a very big issue which concerns both private and public resources. I saw the Prime Minister the other day photographed about the Investment Fund, the Equifund. What does that mean, Minister, so everyone who hears us can understand? This is a fund for small and medium-sized enterprises with EU money and private money. When was the study for these funds ready? It was prepared since 2014, it was sent to the European Commission and in 2015 it was ready to go ahead. Mrs. Cretsu said it was done. Where are we today, Minister? In 2018. Has a euro been given from this fund, the Microcredit Fund and all these funds? Not a single euro! As for the Yunker Packet - because we are making a mistake in general and the opposition and the government - I would like to say that the Juncker Pack has nothing to do with the state. The Juncker Package is a process where companies themselves can - and if they need help - get money. Many companies, for example, CRETA FARMS, TERNA and other companies, who have started the proceedings long before. Now I come to yours, because you have competence too. We as a party, as a PASOK, as a Democratic Association and a Change Movement, are proud to talk about public-private partnerships. I am pleased that Mr Manjufa, who has chosen us as a government in 2009 - and that means worthy - you have kept him - just like the New Democracy - in coexistence with you. Indeed, it is an excellent example of sovereignty in the country. Minister, is there a PPP signed by you? The majority of PPPs have been signed since 2009? All of it! Do you want me to remind you of the garbage of the Peloponnese, which is the most problematic example and said so quite rightly when you voted for what you had voted on a while ago? All the rubbish was signed by the PPPs, colleagues of SYRIZA. The only thing that didn't go on was the Peloponnese PD. It didn't go any further because when you were opposition, you said it was a pharaonic project. We signed it as a government. When the new government arrived - think you signed it after four years - brought a law with which you took the responsibilities. And then the New Democracy voted. In other words, you and the New Democracy have voted to take responsibility. That's never happened before! They're also unprecedented for the New Democracy. And you come after three years for the same work and again give the authority to move forward. This has never been done for you and for the New Democracy! That's hypocrisy! PPP projects are a more successful model. In fact, as you know, public-private partnerships have recently been recognised by the European Commission. But, in order for entrepreneurship to go ahead in this country, regulation is needed on'red' loans and on the extrajudicial compromise. We warned you about the extrajudicial compromise. Do you know how many operations they've been in, Minister? They don't exceed 30.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u32	Twenty-eight!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u33	Twenty-eight! Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Do you know how many people are assigned to the mechanism you set up for the relevant procedure? A hundred. We proposed a specific plan and told you about the bad bank. Bad bank was our suggestion. Even the Europeans have said 'no' and today everyone is talking about the bad bank, because it is the only way out to overcome the problems. And now we've reached the red loans with the specific issues. Minister, I will present today to you and the latest information from the European Commission on the ESDP. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, from the Syntagma Square and the well-known slogans of your Minister, I would like to answer and finish what you yourself said outside the House, with the banner you had outside the House: you are destroying the country. Get out of here now! I am taking the relevant picture of the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u34	We continue with our second colleague, Mr Constantine Scandalidis. Mr. Scandalides, should I count your time of dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u35	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u36	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it seems that it is the government's hooey to discuss seven months later, deferred, time-consuming questions. This is a timely question. It's not even a question. So timely, it had to be discussed seven months later. In the meantime, things are getting worse all the time. I think Ulysses wrote it all down in detail. We have a development law that is essentially inactive, we have high-profile programmes and bureaucracy that triumphs in the financing of the backbone of the economy, which should be the small and medium-sized enterprises, there is a chaos between the objectives and absorptions of the NRP, an absolute inappropriateness for the large investments, of which, if some have started, stop in the middle and show an unprecedented lack of will to go ahead with them. And it is unnecessary to talk about any development resources that require synergies, such as the Yunker Pack, because there is now a completely out of control or process. I, therefore, decided to stay on the central issue of memorial Greece, which is reflected in the success of the Prime Minister's success. What's that story? Development came, the country comes clean and self-sufficient from the memos. The position I support is that neither growth has come nor is the country coming out of the memoranda. As for self-sufficient, it is evident that only as a constellation can it be taken under the bundle of lenders and by assigned the management of public property for the next 100 years. Already in Brussels, the plan for the holistic development strategy presented by the Government seems to be rejected as a general one and without substantial commitments. Unfortunately, we in the newspapers have also heard this and without any debate on the substance of the matter, even though the political forces should at least join in a debate that would define the new national objectives. Unfortunately, they are talking outside about an extension of the agreement, even though it is disproved - and it is well disproved today - or a new agreement with a debt clause, which means a gradual reduction in conditionality and enhanced post-mortem supervision. This second - in my opinion - is a one-way road, as things are going on, because you have not taken the political responsibility of proposing a realistic, and at the same time a reform plan. Because that is why they blame you for not having a trace of reformist logic and changes that are needed today for the next day of exit from the Memorandum. I do not know if you have noticed this, but almost all the political forces describe the same words, the same objectives, almost the same words, the much-needed new development. You describe them, too, very nice. Who could disagree with objectives such as the reversal of population ageing, the return of the potential that leaves the country, the attraction of investment, the upgrading of businesses, the improvement of the entrepreneurial environment, extroversion, the reduction of social and regional disparities, environmental redesign? And I refer to the terms of the project you have proposed. Nobody! That's what you're recommending. However, you are talking about the means you will use and there is obviously an absolute contradiction. Although the objectives are good, they are wishful if the instruments and practices of the government do not guarantee their implementation. It is therefore a good report of ideas, because the objectives and objectives of their implementation are met. First of all, this plan has been drawn up on the basis of macroeconomic assumptions which in practice prove inappropriate, for example, the revisions of the forecast rate of downward growth that have been systematically carried out in these days lead, despite the government's forecasts, to the simultaneous application of tax-free cuts and pensions as from 1 January 2019. I would like to say here that in the next few months you will be shaking for election time, but it is not here to talk about it. Yesterday, reliable houses in Germany, Austria and Switzerland agreed to drop the target to 1.5%. The Bank of Greece took him down to 2%. The Communiqué from 2.5% a few months ago dropped him to 1.9%. What does that mean? It is far away from achieving surpluses of 3.5%, with which the government has chained the country for the next six years. Too far! Secondly, the proposal requires that the means of implementing the Programme should be changed and that, unfortunately, they are foreign to the practice of the government, for example, the upgrading of the public administration with evaluation, merit, transparency. What's going on in practice? Numerous election assignments to parties. How will they trust us? Thirdly, the proposal requires an optimisation of the financial system and a development bank. Odysseus Constantinople said it earlier. Instead, there is a dismantling of small and medium-sized enterprises with a tax lot and a repetition of wishes, a total lack of liquidity on the market. Fourthly, the use of public property is conditional. Already here, we don't have what to say. Fifthly, the proposal requires comprehensive development planning. What design? Laws adopted and not implemented? Policies that are announced and not implemented? Decisions taken and lost along the way to the offices of the Ministries? What do they look like? Unreliability of the country, unreliability of the government and therefore difficult days after August for the Prime Minister's success story. It's been a long time. Like all the issues, unfortunately with the national issues, another language is used toward lenders and another policy is implemented within the country. This is seen by the naked eye. This is where everything is subject to the election intimacy. I would like to mention one last point. I attended the euphemistic regional conferences which the Prime Minister took part in and saw his speeches. They seemed to me poor performances of the government troupe. What is their footprint on mobilising and shaping the productive potential of local societies? He talked to Rhodes about works and services, which he gave from here and there, and at the same time Kos, one year after the earthquake, the churches are not working, the port has not made any progress, with the result that tourism is now beginning to have huge problems. No damage recovery took place in the monuments and wherever resources from the European Union were claimed by the government in order to cover the damage. I'm telling you a specific example. And the Prime Minister goes there and says: "Let the municipality take over the port." A year later. If you wanted to talk about strategism and mobilisation of productive capacity, you need a long-term regional strategy, brave decentralisation of governance, a new wave of reforms in self-government. Instead, wishes, gifts, whispers, promises and, at best, electoral laws that lead municipalities to paralysis and transaction. Unfortunately, every day that is going through more and more, you are inferior to the circumstances. I will repeat something I have said many times here: You have born the hope of the new man and you have proved the last act of the old.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u38	We're moving on with my colleague Mr. Maniots. Mr. Maniatis, I assume you will follow the same practice. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll start with today's press releases. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what the press says today is saying: 'Christine Lagard: the International Monetary Fund has not called for so much cuts in public spending'. The 'Mom' of capitalism, free markets, the International Monetary Fund, Minister, blames you, the government 'first time left', that you are more reckless than the International Monetary Fund, because public spending is cutbacks against society. Today's publication: PricewaterhouseCoopers publishes its report on the future of investment in Greece. What does this serious global company say? In the next five years, Greece should have 208 billion euros to follow the growth rate of the rest of European countries. With the data so far, what does this company expect to be the investment in Greece? The estimate is for 98 billion. We lack 110 billion euros of investment. And if we continue what we have with a SYRIZA and ANEL government, 110 billion investments will never come. And all this to follow Europe's growth rate, not to gain the lost territory of the last three and a half years, just so that the gap does not grow. Third today's post: Your favourite best-served contractor, Mr. Kalogritsas, to whom you assign as government - the Ministry of Public Works - the first four pieces of Patras - Tower street, the breakthrough. Today, then, the Municipality of Dionysus says that it is likely that Mr Kalogritsas may be declared a discount, because he has not been able to complete the waste water project of Dionysus for two and a half years. It's just over 35%. You, Minister, have given this man, apart from the pastures, except television, and half the road Patras to Tower. Fourth observation: You say that the country will come close and strong on the markets. In other words, it will be able to borrow more expensive money than money borrowed by partners and lenders. But how will the markets lend you? The markets will lend you not because Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos or Mr. Drasakis, but because they will assess that your growth rate as a country will be such that it will allow a fundamental optimism to get back the money they lend you. We, that is, your government, what are you doing? You have an extra-real cannibal primary surplus of 3.5%, i.e. you draw everything from the real economy from all the taxpayers, and instead of having the rate of 2.7% provided in your budgets, you end up and fall into the sad and miserable 1.5%. Do you know why I made this first introduction? I made this first introduction on the basis of today's publications only to emphasise that we have before us, colleagues and colleagues, another great political fraud. The term 'fraud' is now over. This is a political fraud, which has the name 'clean exit', which is all clear. It is, however, accompanied by the sub-cost ‘memorandum follow-up’. Do you know what that means in the Syrian terminology? This means that we will go out on the markets, we will have no protection net, we will borrow more expensive, and we will have a memorandum without cheap money, but we will have supervision. Here comes the next subcoding. You have named the proposal that you will be tabling for Greece after 20 August 2018, you have given this plan the word "solistic development plan". Baroness, wonderful title, and when you go inside and see the suggestions, you have, first of all, the first problem: you don't have the text. However, even with regard to what newspapers publish or those that come out of the Eurogroup where they are being discussed, we have a simple wish with no means of implementing these wishes. Minister, we, as a parliamentary group, all our colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, have Mr Tsakalotos here and the Vice-President of the Government, as they have an elementary parliamentary and democratic obligation, and to inform the National Parliament, to inform the House of what this holistic programme is, which will be the main tool for the country to come out in a few months' time, in order to borrow cheaply. Is it possible, after so many years of sacrifices of the Greek people, to go out on the markets and not to know anyone other than Mr Tsakalotou or Mr Juliarakis what are the main tools on which to base the country's credibility so that the Greek citizen does not pay too much interest? So we want you to come and inform the House. You have another feature: This government, colleagues and colleagues, is the most fortunate government of post-multi-population, it is just unfortunate that the Greek people who at this critical moment governs this government. Here's why it's the luckiest government. In the last three and a half years there has been only and constantly globally growing growth in almost all countries. They are growth rates from 3% to 7% everywhere, on a global level. Secondly, Europe over the three and a half years is developing on average by 3.5%, Romania with 7%, Ireland with 5%. The poor Greece of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos had three and a half years that we did not exceed cumulatively, not annually, 1.5%. You lost the other big vision you were supposed to implement, the famous quantitative relaxation, the free, the free, the suffering money of Mr. Draghi. That's past the program. Greece was the only country that did not use cheap funding from the European Central Bank. And there's a fourth chance you had and you didn't use it. You're the only government after the Transmigration that found the price of oil at half the price that the previous governments had. Minister, in 2015, when you took over, the oil fell and remained for three years at $40 to $50 a barrel when the previous government had found it at $110 a barrel. I will give you a typical example, because it is in the news and the cynical selling of PPC units by the Prime Minister, who said that we need to move to a referendum on PPC "little" and we will not tolerate - because they will go over Mr Tsipras' body - the sale of PPC. Do you know that PPC has benefited every year from 350-400m euros of less fuel costs? We're talking about every year. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, in relation to 2014, PPC had indirect additional revenues, i.e. it had a cut in costs of EUR 400 million. Would it be absurd to anyone directly asking the SYRIZA Government "Well, with about EUR 1 billion less spent by PPC, why didn't you reduce electricity to the citizens, when all the previous ones were obliged to have double and more than twice as much oil prices"? And, of course, right, to go to the next topic, Odysseus Constantinople reminded you, Minister - you are the only one to whom this should not be addressed, because you are not an ally of logic - the issue of public and private partnerships. In 2014 I had the honour as Minister of the Environment to sign nine PPPs of EUR 530 million. One of these was the famous project of waste management in Western Macedonia. Do me a favor to see what SYRIZA said against us when we signed these works. But a year ago, Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Famelos went without a tie and proudly cut the film of the openings of this work, which they had won. Should I say about EUR 110 billion of red loans, for which we have proposed bad bank, and have you done nothing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Maniotis, this is what I ask you to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. Should I say about the thirty thousand Greek citizens who are asking for a solution from the extrajudicial mechanism and are twenty-three and all - not thousands - those who have served? Should I say about the Greek or the waterways? Minister, in September 2014 the Greek state licensed - we licensed - the country's first water route to Corfu. We know that when you start and license the first investment, all the others can have more than ten times the speed of signature. Three and a half years are waiting for twenty-five waterways to be licensed and you have not licensed one. I conclude by saying this: because the Greek people have suffered incredible sacrifices, much greater than the peoples of other countries on memoranda, we consider that it is very important for the Greek citizen since August of this year to have two basic elements. The first is an economy based on progressive reforms that will bring investment and national wealth, and the second is a national economy that will create new jobs, so that we can progressively combat the scourge of unemployment. That is why, Minister, I am sorry to tell you, but your government is absolutely inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u42	We shall proceed with the fourth question, Mr Harulas (Hara) Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u43	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about the delay, but it is something very important when we discuss topical questions to have the status of topical and urgent debate as well. The ideas that we have been reading lately and the climate of optimism from which the entire government is being blamed is good I would say to you, but to explain, with 2% growth this year and 1% of the time, with the free trader's tax of 65% and 70%, with half the population still afraid to say the word "bank", with hundreds of thousands of Greeks shaking that they will lose their homes or that their account will be seized, how do you think we will get rid of the mud that we have fallen? At the same time, the institutions raise the issue of strict supervision of Greece after the calendar end of the memorandum either in August or later, while the Prime Minister appears from Kastelorizo, but also at every opportunity, to state certain that there will be a final and irrevocable exit. It says: clean exits from supervision and programmes and fair development, which will also have a geographical definition with the support of our remote islands, as well as all the regions of the country. The Prime Minister sees, or says he sees, heaven where the pots of hell burn. Why so depreciating our logic, Minister? Your Mr. Friend had the bravery the other day and said it the way it is. What clean exit, he says, are you talking? In order to have a clean exit, at least two conditions should be fulfilled. The first is that the way out of the crisis must be accompanied by convergence of our economy with European economies. And the second is that the policies that will be implemented must close social inequalities, not widen them, not open them. If we have learned something in recent years, the state as a sovereign development tool has failed miserably. Benefit policies as a cure to the chronic economic and productive disease that agitates the country are not a cure, are simply a job. The last thing the private sector is finally the only one capable of making overcoming the economy. Greece, you know better, now needs, in the visible future rather than in the invisible future, an investment package of EUR 100 to 110 billion. Where will this money come from? That is the main question. Is there an answer? Is there an answer to how to attract foreign and domestic investments? It is now understandable that the money in the countries does not carry neither the Prime Ministers nor the Ministers. They're just sharing it. So the government's job is to build a specific legal, institutional, state and social framework in the country that makes it possible to invest. However, my humble opinion is that with proclamations in blue skies and emerald waters, monuments may come, growth again no. Development is asking for very specific things. It wants brave political and economic decisions that will run counter to all the institutions that we have grown up with. Greece needs a development shock and needs it now. Greece needs money and needs it now, its own money, not credit. Where can he find them? Colleagues who have already made some proposals, and those who will continue will tell you about our own views on the country's development potential. I would like to focus on what I think we have in front of our eyes and we need to take it immediately to give a strong growth push forward and it is no more than our heavy artillery, culture. I want to speak a little about culture, not as a theoretical concept, but as a product, as a product of precious, rare and extremely popular. I believe that culture is the core of sustainable development policies, both with economic and with the environmental dimension, is the one that can offer a holistic development and, at the same time, a humanitarian view in a society that is upset by migratory, environmental problems, economic problems, demographically. Culture has a rare capacity that can contribute quickly and substantially to increasing employment, increasing investment in research and innovation, saving energy resources, improving education, fighting poverty and social exclusion. The cultural economy, you all know, is now becoming increasingly involved in development policy studies, in all post-industrial and emerging economies. All international studies now say that it is the cultural sector which is developing even in times of crisis and recession and contributes 4.5% to European GDP, while increasing annually, above every other sector. Note that. Everything that has been done in the Ministry of Culture by 2014 - because unfortunately neither studies were carried out, nor projects - they have done an evaluation. By 2014, therefore, a thousand three hundred projects in the cultural section had been implemented with resources from the European Union. What did they show? That there is a multiplier effect on the economy as a whole. I will tell you a simple number: one million euros in a cultural project renders a five-year horizon of EUR 3,44 million, that is, the investment is more than tripled. The contribution of culture can therefore be immediate when it comes to dealing with the present situation in the country and can be enormous. But it needs brains. There is a need for a lack of hammering and development initiatives are also needed. We need to treat our cultural product as a vital factor in economic development through synergies, with dynamic productive sectors such as tourism, education, agriculture, science, entrepreneurship. There is no need for ideoleptic claws, no need for synergy policies and, above all, no need for triples. What should I first remember? The Greek where we were looking for the airway for ancient times? The investment in Afantou, the EUR 300,000, which was approved by the Court of Auditors, was published in the FEK, and then was involved by the Ministry of Culture - is Mr Baltas, remembered well - was the archaeological site of the Desert, suspended in all progress and investment and the potential investors were forced to warn with departure? The marinas have all been mentioned. Here you are well aware that five jobs are created for every 100 jobs in ports. But who needs these? Unemployment lasts well. May I remind you of the non-authorisation of the watercourses and the withdrawal of the investment interest in waterplanes? Of course, at the 13th Regional Conference in the southern Aegean, Mr. Tsipras told us that the design and licensing of the twenty-five islands of the southern Aegean is going well. But when we have arrived in April 2018 and we are still discussing a draft law that will simplify procedures and processes, as the Greek people say: "Give me and I slipped." [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by linking culture and tourism, which accounts for 20% of GDP, it employs 1/5 of the country's workforce and is the most vital one in the Greek economy and it crosses the whole structure of society, it could really take off development in the near future. However, while we have a ready-to-date solution before us, the only one that does not see it is the government. The rest of the world has exploited the slightest potential for cultural use as a development vehicle alone. The government treats culture as a tool of obsessive attachment and a synergy of the past. And I ask you: Where is the interconnection of humanitarian science schools with international universities and seminar hosting programmes in our country for the training of students and researchers? Where is the creation of joint training programmes for foreign students and scientists in the field of agricultural production, botany and agriculture, with summer programmes in the Greek region? Where's the extension project of the National Gallery? Where is the attempt to continue the excavations in Amphipolis? Where are the actions to upgrade the quality of our museums and archaeological sites? Here's no online ticket you couldn't even put in the museums. Has one thought - and this is something that I have been worried about for a long time now - how can one take advantage of Delos, a unique island next to Mykonos? Why are you laughing, Minister? I hope you have a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u44	Now did Delos grow in the Aegean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u45	And with Delos you close, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u46	When we have two million visitors in Mykonos and Delos there are only a hundred twenty thousand visitors, why so? Why can't the state think a little differently? But of course, you're busy, from finding ancient where you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, close. I've already shown tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. I conclude, remembering Mr Tsipras - May, I think - at the Acropolis Museum to welcome development, which has never come to a date with history. It is certain that if the present government cannot seize the opportunity in front of it, it must allow others to do so. The country is on fire to move forward. And it will go ahead, but not with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u49	For reasons of parliamentary order, I must mention that from New Democracy Mr. Kefaloniannis, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotaros, from ANELs Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, from the Central Association Mr. Marios Georgiadis and from Potamis Mr. George Mavrotas. Mr. Jellonis has the floor. I guess I'll give you both the time, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u50	That's right. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our topical question is central to developing with SYRIZA - ANEL. Do these happen? It's inconvenience. Development and co-government of SYRIZA - ANEL cannot go together. Why? Because you are ideoleptically abhorrent to what is created and produced in this place. And with your policies you are destroying him, starting with the abolition of excellence. Anyone who wants to create, show up, make his life better, parade, create jobs, you're after him. In fact, in recent years, we have watched the government have been indulging in an unprecedented communication operation with a central objective from one hand to the net exit from the memoranda and development. First of all, for the clear exit from the memorials: Very briefly, this idyllic scenario no longer believes. And it doesn't believe it because they know very well that the commitments of the fourth memorandum from the SYRIZA - ANEL are not only by 2022 with primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP each year, with reduction measures for the pensions of 2019 - which you do not dare now apply the Katorugalu law - by reducing duty-free from 2020 - which can go further forward - but the commitments reach 2060, unfortunately with an annual primary surplus of 2.5% and subscribing all the assets of the Greek state for nine nine years. On the other hand, we hear about growth. From the serious theory of the spring we have now passed to "will rain billions" by the roaming Prime Minister across Greece with the regional development conferences that we see everywhere raining billions. Recently we have seen this in Thessaloniki. Only Thessaloniki at the same time remained - a city of one million population - a week without water. In other words, we are watching a cheap propaganda from the side of the coup d'état. Besides, it is a matter of regularisation for you now to talk about clean exit and development and it is your dear political method of lying, because it is now understood by the Greek people that this has no basis. I'd like to give a painting, because you can't just invoke the past. You're three and a half years government. What were the European Commission's 2014 growth estimates for 2015, 2016 and 2017? Overall growth of 10.1%. According to ELSTAT's figures on 13-4-2018, instead of 10.1% growth, we had in these three years 0.9% growth. The loss of income in this three-year cumulative year is 37 billion from the Greek people. If we put in 2018, then this is escalating to 57 billion, because then there was 3.3% growth anticipated, and now 2.5% is anticipated and the International Monetary Fund recently said 1.9%. So, at budgetary level, we benefited from the budget area, on the other hand, on the other hand, which you say you won with your negotiations? These three years, in 2015, 2016 and 2017, we have additional budgetary measures against the Greek people EUR 12.5 billion to achieve, he says, lower budgetary targets. In addition, with the fourth memorandum you record in the budget and the mid-term programme 2018-2021 additional 2.8 billion meters. Only for 2018 is 1.8 billion. All in all, if we do that, they do us 75 billion with the loss of income, plus the extra financial measures, and we see that the overall damage in 2018 in the country, if we put the losses of the Greek State from the banks, it touches 100 billion, plus 86 billion of your third memorandum loan contract, you understand why the European Commission speaks of 200 billion losses from the SYRIZA - ANLE government in the country. And on the other hand, you want to talk about growth. The country with SYRIZA-ANEL collapsed. Small and medium-sized enterprises are tightening up family incomes are day-to-day worse and electronic auctions, extra-judicial compromises, unemployment, closure of businesses are the current Greek reality. However, I would now like to refer to the Greek region and your development in the Greek region. The Agricultural Development Programme of the Ministry of Agriculture is the main financial instrument for strengthening the competitiveness of Greek agriculture, where Greek agriculture is the main economic activity in the region for social cohesion and for creating growth in the Greek region. At a very critical time, with a significant lack of liquidity in the rural area, you were given the opportunity of the PASOK governments to use EUR 5.9 billion to finance specific projects, actions and actions. That's a long delay all this time. Three years nothing. The last four months have just begun to become cowardly - they are cowardly making some announcements of some measures. However, all this is so sloppy, unreserved and, above all, without being integrated into an overall planning for rural areas, which do not work. I would like to tell you that from the 5.9 billion you are making commitments in total 2.4 billion, and 1.5 billion is about unsuccessful obligations of previous projects implemented by the PASOK governments. You're the one who's just been proclaiming 900 million. As far as payments are concerned, while payments totalling 1,126 billion of these 2.5 billion were made, 718 million were paid for the previous projects. You paid only 400 million from the Programme 2015-2020 and that to young farmers and organic farming. It was a total of 5.9 billion, and you were disbursing 1.5 billion. The rest you didn't even notice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From the sixteen basic measures - I shall end in a minute, Mr President - you have announced only for young farmers 3,100. You waited for the Prime Minister to go to Thessaloniki after six months of anxiety among young farmers to say "we will incorporate you". You still haven't transferred funds. It's still a promise. We're keeping this, so we'll see what happens with it. Improvement plans. What can we talk about now with zero liquidity? Producer groups, organic livestock farming, denaturing: Procedure, re-procedure, take it back, you don't know how to plan it. The other 12 meters you have not touched at all. There are important measures. When we talk about growth, then we are talking about innovation and the dissemination of knowledge, which are key factors in growth and the rural economy. In the Rural Development Programme you are weakening these. Let me give you an example: The system of agricultural advisory, which is our European obligation, you have not announced it. You leave an irresponsible regime of consultants, which are paid by farmers. I don't know where this will lead and where you're targeting. Perhaps, last minute you can give it to some 'days' business. But they have knowledge of all this. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that with the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict it is not possible for there to be growth, because they do not know either how to plan or what to do, but are concerned only with their ideas and their obsessions. I would like to mention an example from northern Greece of what growth means for SYRIZA - ANEL. In northern Greece there was a unique industry in the country, the Greek Sugar Industry, which produced, covering the needs of the country, two hundred and eighty thousand tonnes of sugar - so much domestic consumption. You, with your unfortunate choices, with the lack of policy for this industry, led the industry to final closure a month ago. I reiterate the definitive closure of the Greek Sugar Industry, without doing anything at all this time. As long as I can tell you that in the three years of government of SYRIZA - ANEL you have changed five administrative boards. What planning could be done for this industry? The course of this industry is a long way to go. You had time, however, to have a strategic plan, to find investors for the industry, so that the industry today could offer Greeks and the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u51	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u52	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to say once again that this government, as in everything it cannot do in the area of development and unfortunately this is the most negative. Because, to get out of the memorials, the country should produce wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u53	Don't open a word now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u54	To produce wealth, new jobs really need to be created, new jobs. But you cannot in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Michael Celestes, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u56	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are moving on with our late colleague, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou. Come on, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think that when you discuss with foreign investors, with potential investors, they identify you with the three main problems of the Greek economy and government policy, as they do when we discuss them with them. The first problem, then, is that it is pluralism and bureaucracy. These two are identified. The second problem is the government's lack of support for rapid investment projects. And the third, which matters, is that an investment from the moment it is planned would like a period of rapid processing, so that it would bear fruit. Of these three, Minister, and I am not personally talking about your role, but about the role of the government - I think that so far we have acknowledged, we have found that none has been overturned. That is why the investments are at the point where they are located. Based on what the government has announced, the reform and development plan should have been presented before Easter. Instead, the known shadows around the country’s clear exit from the memorials continue to remain. The creditors disagree with the degree of settlement of the Greek debt and with the delays in the preparation of the so-called'social development plan'. They shall even disagree whether the Greek Government is able or willing to complete the obligations by the end of the memorandum. That is why some - I do not wish - start and talk about an extension of the memorandum for a few months. For us, for the Change Movement, a national development strategy should include measures to attract and increase investment in Greece, modernise public administration, a friendly and stable taxation, to stimulate growth, but also measures to gradually reduce non-performing loans. That is to say, it must include measures ensuring that large investment in the country is ensured and that new investments are created. Even for taxation, which is for Greeks too big a rock, large investors can discuss when they are given a framework of pro-investment in the process of investment development in Greece. But development is not ordered, as many people have said, and it is not possible, as I think - I think - to leave Qatar's enthusiasm after too many adventures of the investment he wanted to make in the Ionian Islands. Thus, in the position of such a programme today, the Government is constantly blocking development with the inexorable delays in the concession of the former Greek airport for its development and spatial renewal, with the suspension of works in the mines of Halkidiki and the marinas and ports of the country. Three years now, Minister, despite the fact that I know that we have had an acceleration in the procedures for waterplanes from your side, the Government does not go ahead with the development of procedures for the licensing of waterplanes or the port of Patras, as is the wider area that was from the candidate regions to take this development activity. Three years now we have reached a deadlock, that is, nothing has yet been done, despite any small developments which do not work. If such an investment takes such a long time - which is simple to invest - and we deceive investors, you understand how difficult this will be for large investment. Also, with unemployment being plagued by the country and touching desperate rates, and with small and medium-sized enterprises being set up for lock-up, growth is still not possible. With citizens watching day after day their incomes shrink desperately, to stimulate consumption we also don't have. With a society as a whole losing hope, when it sees the new generation looking for a better life off-border, when instead of jobs and income and dignity, it gets notices for auction seizures and again there is no growth. In my very short time, I would like to give you two prospects which the government should have - beyond our political disagreements - had run down to now. The first is development through the development programmes for education. Is it possible at the University of Filippopolis, Minister, that we have four hundred students? Is it possible for five thousand students to leave for Cyprus and we should refuse, your Government should refuse, any developmental direction to the Greek universities, so that they can build classes in foreign languages, create common curricula, undergraduate studies in foreign languages or even in Greek, with partnerships with foreign universities? These are data that today allows Article 16. Is it possible to have such a capital leak to the outside, to countries such as Bulgaria, Turkey and Cyprus? Of course, Cyprus has set up a very specific programme to attract educational investment in the country, at regional level, and has become a attraction. Is it possible for Greece to fail to do so, because the SYRIZA and ANEL Government and the Ministers for Education have so far rejected all such prospects? Is it possible in 2018 to think like this? And secondly, Minister, can we not have made progress since we left it in 2015 in electronic justice at the 'e-Justice'? The investors tell you: we need transparency in decisions, we need speeding up decisions, we need an interconnection between the courts, we need modernization in the administration of justice, beyond speed. In these two areas, with all those of my fellow Members mentioned by the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, there were no three years, Minister, anything you think is right and you can implement it so that the country's development rates can go ahead. I think that leads things to a huge dead end. This is incompatibility not between the ideological perception, but between the government's apology to a narrow partisan core, which, in order to accept growth, we should talk about growth with justice, as is often called also with healthy businesses, as if those who come to invest in Greece are not healthy businesses. On the other hand, the need to justify that delay is part of this government's policy. That is what I think it has worked as a brake. That is why we are on the point of being here today. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u58	And we reach the last question, Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. In 2015, Minister, you received the country without primary deficits and at a positive rate of growth, even small, after a great recession. Of course, I would remind you that we received 24 billion primary deficit in 2009, 36 billion in total and over 15% of annual deficit as a percentage of GDP. What else did you receive? A launching programme of the ESDP, secured by 20 billion. An outdated Rural Development Programme, with 5 billion. A development law in progress. A Yunker package, which came next. And an additional 7% increase in the advance from the European Union, which came this summer of 2015. You have also received a number of submitted major investment projects to the Directorate for Strategic Studies, which can be discussed in detail, public investment in progress, start-up and mature projects in all respects. So, one wonders: What is the fault of this, after 2014, has things been reversed in this great effort that has been done so far, and indeed in the heart of the crisis? Fourth time government SYRIZA or SYRIZA - ANEL, as you prefer, and things have been put into growth and investment. And, of course, there is no such dynamism that had been announced by you as a launch. Remember the missiles that were launching the Easter last year or all the rest that you had memorized us with. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Is it only Mr. Tsipras' first semester of policy? Is it only because in productive reconstruction a competent Minister was Mr Lafazanis for a whole seven-month, eight-month period? Is it only because, in any of the Thessaloniki programmes, "The hope comes", and, of course, in the programme that you prepared after the June 2016 conference, is nothing really involved in promoting growth and investment? So you have no policy to promote investment development, because none of these documentaries, as you say, includes anything. I'll testify all three as copies for the record. Can we see the faces? Mr Stathakis as Minister of Economy and Development has been released. He didn't make it, he got expelled. Should we think that after that, you said something to bring investment from abroad? Of course we should have brought a minister from abroad to bring them along and put Mr. Papadimitriou in. You tried that, too. And you saw that zero plus zero equals zero Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Papademitriou multiplyed it by zero and remained zero. However, in order not to blame Mr Stathakis, he managed and sold TRAINOSE instead of 300 million, which he himself told us was little, 45 million. Don't blame him. He did something. Instead of making an honest account on the part of the government and seeing that what is missing is not the face so much, but the political will to promote development, what did it do? He found that method with internal history, through SYRIZA, which was done with rent and devastated Mr. Papadimitriou and took over by Mr. Drasakis. Yes, sir. Drasakis who was supervised in this failed cycle of economy and finances by the fourth year of governance of SYRIZA. Of course, Mr Pitsirlas, who has an experience - we must say it - from private professional activity in the real estate and has made some speeches. But all these things are fragmentary, they are issues which do not affect the overall inertia, they do not promote any, but none of the projects that were in place, have been announced and are necessary for development. There is not one project planned, launched and carried out by this government. What is being done is ongoing from the previous ones and I am referring specifically to it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the Ministry's site at this time, the balance sheet of the NSRF is hanging and it says 20,075,000 euros - that is correct - that was guaranteed by the previous government. Payments to date: 3,428 000,712 euros. The Minister responsible - and Mr Pitsirla will tell us soon - has announced a 25% absorption, that is, about 5 billion. The 1.5 billion do you know what it is? They are advances granted and are deposits to the Bank of Greece and money parked in institutions and funds. That's the absorption of 25%. And, of course, we must say that even in development law things are not better. I will tell you a simple thing: a tripartite group of investments, either of old law or of the latter, to get money for people: the two are defined by the district, the third by the Ministry. Uh, for the third guy from the Ministry, do you know how long the electronic draw takes? About three to four months it takes the Ministry to pay the third assessor. And do you know how much he's got? About 50 euros. If the investment is far from Athens, as you can see, it doesn't go or, even if it goes, a phone number "but, where are you exactly, they designated me as an evaluator and you know it's hard to come and open some streets to the Ministry, only these streets we don't want, streets of abnormal practice. So this is something that has been denounced, that we have made it through parliamentary intervention and that has not been corrected. The second big issue to do with development law - and I close with it - is that it announces a particular small amount, discourages investors to submit plans, and when they submit proposals, then retrospectively increases the amount. He doesn't like it from the beginning. This - and I will submit the documents - concerns the notice that took place on 19 October 2016. A call was made for 150 million, 80 aid and 70 tax exemptions, and it comes on 19-1-2018 and says "I approve all the projects that have been submitted with a large amount". So he does a puppy policy, without transparency, and he tries to join specific people in this way. What the place is experiencing today, while it takes a leap in growth, in the economy, that is to say, the government itself to put a stop to small and large investment by overtaxing small businesses, with high insurance contributions to professionals and the world that it wants to produce, while putting a brake on agricultural production, and at the same time we are striving for how we will actually be able to have a period from now on and beyond where wealth will be produced to cover and restore social injustices, shows that the government only aims to stay in power. Her whole problem is the electoral route for the municipal elections. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister Stergios Pitsirlas has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantinople, I must first say that it is right to comment on the delay in answering the timely question. I had no competence until recently on this matter. But that doesn't mean anything. The Ministry had to answer. Of course, this delay may have made the main issues raised in the topical and urgent debate unresolved, because they have been resolved and the debate today has taken a more general one. I want to make a first political comment. At the moment we are in a very critical and delicate phase of negotiations for the completion of our rescue programmes and for our exit. It is therefore obvious that this negotiation will be difficult and will contain many pressures at the expense of the country. So I'm not going to go into details. It is important that at the end of the day it will be judged whether the negotiation was successful and whether the exit is what we want. But there is a central question, and that is about our objectives and the objectives of the country. Mr Maniotis said from now on: 'We will go out on the markets and we will perhaps borrow more expensively than we now borrow from our partners'. So the question is this: do we want to continue borrowing cheaper than our partners, as we now borrow? That's what we have to answer. The government does not want to continue this regime because the continued lending by our partners under the current conditions entails commitments from our country and new Memorandums. And I don't think anyone really wants it, just for opposition reasons. So the aim is to get out of this way of borrowing and to be able to meet our needs in a decent way by producing and lending from the markets so that we can avoid new programmes and new commitments. The Government will therefore be judged at the end of this negotiation with the regime it has established for the memorandum period. So let us wait for the anti-population projections that have been made almost at all stages of the negotiations have not been very successful as to whether the evaluations, which have been completed so far, will be completed. It is also clear that there is a distrust among the partners towards Greece. This mistrust, of course, has not arisen now. Distrust is years and is due to the country's overall course, due to the fact that we have now reached the need for the memorandum and it is not only about the current government. On the contrary, I could argue, invoking statements by too many officials, that in recent years there has been a better picture. I would like to start with the issues raised by the question. A further colleague said: 'Let's see where the investments are.' So I will start from the themes of the Greek and Greek FRYSOS, because they are two very characteristic examples and I will say two words about two other projects. The government was very critical of the delays in the implementation of the Greek project. But let us see if it is really a delay or a very big project that has been done. I claim that on the government side it has been achieved in a short time, I would say, a very difficult project and I will explain it. You will obviously remember very well that around this project there was a very great discussion throughout the Greek society and in the political system of the country. It was not just SYRIZA, who, as opposition, had disagreements with this work. Very strong economic groups and publishing groups had disagreements, all municipalities in the region had disagreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u62	But he had moved on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u63	Wait a minute, I'll get there. Don't worry. All municipalities in the region had disagreements. I, when I received the project as president of the GOI, all three municipalities - and they were not all SYRIZA, rather, when I received it, no one was SYRIZA - had disagreement with the project. All three! Where was all this due? They were due to the fact that the project started in bad conditions, with very bad conditions and we were due to resolve too many problems. So what do I mean? When one goes to buy a plot to build a house, the first thing he does is that he has a topography of the land he buys and then goes and takes an act of characterisation from the forest if he can build or if he can't build. Here, then, there was a competition to sell seven thousand acres of public land without topography, without a denomination. And when I say topography, it doesn't matter where it is. And outside of the plan to be, you have to have a characterization act, you have to have topography. You have to have topography, because topography has a few secrets. It must record the streams, for example, which did not exist in the Greek. There has also been a contract with too many sects to implement this convention. So what did we do? The first thing we have done is that we have negotiated the terms of this convention again and improved it very much. The amending contract came to Parliament and was voted on by everyone. It was also right to vote because it has improved the terms of the Convention very much and the consent of local communities and municipalities has also been ensured. Secondly, we have come to the point of issuing the presidential decree and even unanimously from the S.H.E., which means that it has been done a very detailed and careful job. And the Convention-based Presidential Decree is the prerequisite for the completion of too many other posts provided for in this Convention. And so we are now in the process of implementing these sects, which means that there should be too many CCIs to resolve the issues of urban planning and the issues of the development of zones beyond the casino. All of this was foreseen in the original contract as a result of the adoption of the Presidential Decree. Therefore, ‘LAMDA’, the company that will build the project, will complete the submission of the studies in order to issue these acts in June 2018. Why am I telling you this? I tell you why there is a reality that we need to recognise. All major projects in Greece so far have had huge problems and huge delays and we need to explain why this situation exists. If we do not solve the structural problems which have the effect of these delays, we are not serious about it. In a country where there is no Land register, which does not exist archaeological register, in a country where these elementary data have not been solved, it is very reasonable to have huge delays. The big investment, the 'COSTA NAVARINO', took 15 years to be licensed and SYRIZA did not rule at that time. Others ruled. So in Greek, we've come to the end. And very well today you have not referred to yourself, because you know very well that we have come to an end. By September, October, all the CSTs will have been published to start the project. Already after the adoption of the Presidential Decree, which has already been done, is for the implementation of the project. The company "ELLENIKOS FRYSOS S.A.", is also not a new issue because we have been concerned for too many years. However, this issue has also been resolved at the end of the day. The government followed a line so that it could give a definitive solution to the problem. Recently the arbitration decision, which the Greek State appealed to in consultation with the company, was adopted and a framework was established which now enables us to renegotiate with the company the final settlement of the matter. Let me tell you the two main points of this decision. The first point is that the company is obliged to produce clean metals in Greece. So far, that has not been one of the major objections to this project, it is that the condensates in Greece will be produced and exported and therefore we will bear all the costs without any real benefit from this activity. So this is a huge issue, which has now been resolved. The second issue that has been solved is that the company is obliged to respect a very strict environmental framework for European standards which has not existed until now. And with the modification of the mining and mining code, conditions are now being formulated so that this issue can be resolved. I am thinking in particular of this because - I repeat - investment is a candy that we all call it. If we do not create a stable background, however, the institutional basis, there will be no promotion of this objective, whoever is in power. I could mention two more examples very briefly. The theme of "Aster" Vouliagmenos and the theme of Afantos mentioned. At the "Asteras" of Vouliagmenos there was a delay of about one year for the implementation of the project. Do you know why? Because the plan prepared by the previous government and went to the VCU, provided "Star" with the opportunity to build up to a hundred houses. And, of course, the CoR rightly rejected it. What does that mean? I'm coming back to the same subject. It means that on the basis of delays there are political choices, there are structural weaknesses that need to be addressed. To Afantou the same. In Afantou there was a proposal from the Local Antiquities Authority to declare the site as archaeological interest, which had been buried for ten years by the Ministry. And when he came to the surface, where he couldn't move on to the process, the problem came up. But this was also resolved by the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation. At the moment, your test sections on the plot are being completed, and we will probably not have any problem and will proceed immediately. One investor from the two is already preparing to start his investment. There are therefore very important institutional issues that need to be resolved. The current government, in my opinion, has started to resolve these problems in a methodological way. And for the problems of the register, to complete the register, on a regular basis, both on the issues of forest maps and on the issues of codification of legislation. On too many points we have gone too far. The codification of tourist legislation has already been completed. Where are we today? I will only mention to you the elements of the Greek Bank for Foreign Direct Investments. In 2016 and 2017 we have achieved record targets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u64	With the "FRAPORT" inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u65	What does it matter? I don't understand. Don't say that. Apparently, there's always there. However, the 'FRAPORT' for completion also required a huge effort from this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u66	And crying from Mr. Spirtzi!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u67	The "FRAPORT" to be completed, as did Piraeus to be completed and Thessaloniki to be completed, required a great deal of effort from the present government. And I doubt they'd be completed by the previous governments. I doubt it very much. And that is why they had not already come to their conclusion. So we have a chart. If you see it, foreign direct investment in 2017 is at the best point after 2005. That is something that cannot be ignored. In 2016-2017 we have reached levels very high for Greek data. But what's the problem? The structural problem is that foreign direct investment in Greece has always been too low, and when the parties that are now in power are ruling. It was, on average, about 1% of GDP. This is a rate of extermination for the Greek economy and obviously has causes which are not related to the current government, because, I repeat, it is time-consuming. And these causes must be addressed. As it has causes, the fact that our country's exports were so low. These are issues which, I repeat, are structural and need to be resolved. The fact that we have reached a time of crisis at these levels means that something starts and changes in the Greek economy and that has to be recognised. So what's changing? It changes the fact that there is a particular burden on attracting foreign investments, which did not exist before. I will take a long time to describe the system that exists to attract foreign investments and the system that exists in the public sector to promote exports. It'll take a huge effort to be able to rationalise it. We have not yet managed to do so, but we are in this direction. I shall mention one example only. When a Minister of Economy left the Ministry of Economy and went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he took with him a whole service from the Ministry of Economy and took it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire area of the country's extroversion was broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u68	You're telling the followers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u70	I took them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u71	I'm not saying who took them. The entire area of extroversion was broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u72	It was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u73	I don't know who started it. I describe a reality. At the moment, with the attraction of investment and the promotion of exports, at least six different centres are involved by the Greek State, acting at the same time without any consultation. And that's the first thing we want to solve. There has been a great deal of effort, and I think we have spectacular results. These are recorded. It is not just 'FRAPORT'. They are recorded in the investment rates that we have achieved in recent years. I will therefore be able to say more specifically. The Greek economy has always been affected by building activity. Her desolation had huge negative effects. In the last two years we have had a very clear rise in this activity again, a recovery. Let me tell you that in January 2018 ELSTAT recorded an increase of 41.7% in private building and for the past year there was a very significant increase of 9.2% in building permits, 21% in surface and 24% in construction volume. The building activity, with peaks of tourism and peaks of dwellings, has been very much developed and the prospects are very good for both hotels and housing. You referred to the 'Golden Visa' programme. Revenue from the 'Golden Visa' programme is 1.5 billion in three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u74	We expect you to make the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u75	Wait a minute. Revenue is 1.5 billion in three years. The program is going very well. Secondly, we did a huge social consultation with all the institutions. We have come to the final proposal to amend the law and will be given the consultation in the next few days, that is, during the week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u76	You said that a year ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u77	In the course of the week, it will be put into consultation and will come for a vote in the House. What matters, however, is that at the moment there is huge mobility, there is great revenue and data on building activity and on hotels and houses testify to it. There is a great reversal of the industry's course. Between 1995 and 2015, industrial production fell by around 20%. SYRIZA wasn't ruling. From 2016 and 2017 we have a very important reversal in very high rates and investments very important in industry by major companies. These investments are because they too have become more extroverted and make use of capital borrowed by the market. The success of the bonds of major business groups over the last two years is a very important fact. I could mention a large list of investments, if I have to. For tourism, I said, and if necessary, I will provide information. You referred to strategic investments. We are implementing the programme of strategic investment and we will soon be bringing it to Parliament and amending the law on strategic investment. So I'll tell you what image I found in strategic investment. I found a list of ghost projects included in the list of strategic investments, projects that will never be made. And whoever approved them, approved them for some reason, not because it was sure that these works will be done. There is a huge issue and we need to correct it. These are works that didn't have the slightest thing to convince of their maturity. It's just that some approvals were given and you're okay. In fact, a bonus was granted to some to manage a Greek government licence, a special scheme, which, in fact, is not specific at all with today's law. I can give evidence for that, too. We have, however, moved on now, and we have all set up new projects and there is a list of major projects. But the law needs to be amended so that it can deliver. And I repeat that the law is almost ready to be filed. You mentioned - and rightly so - the PPPs. Obviously a regime was formed too good for PPP projects. Greece has a good status. Perhaps only minor changes must be made, according to our experience. In fact, however, it is a regime that works. We also have projects that are currently being implemented with our own signatures. It doesn't matter what was said before, when I asked. But we too signed projects and we will sign much more. The work of the Peloponnese was mentioned, Mr. Constantinople. Do you know why he delayed the Peloponnese project? You know that very well. But you said other things. He was delayed because all the mayors of the Peloponnese fought it. And these mayors aren't SYRIZA's, they're PASOK and New Democracy. The confrontation of the mayors with the district ruler was the reason for delaying the work until recently. With huge, laborious efforts by the government, this conflict has been settled and we have been able to resolve the problem and the convention will be signed in the next few days to implement the project, as signed and completed on the continent, as will the work on Rhodes and others. The inclusion of a large list of projects by the Interministerial Committee in the PPP project list is currently pending. I am referring also to large-scale lighting works, public buildings, school buildings and others. I think it's gonna be a very big injection in the development process. But that's not all. There is currently a great deal of investment in energy. In the digital economy too, huge investments are being made and you are reading them in the press. I don't want to keep recording, listing. All this isn't random. Someone's doing it. And for some reason now investors are investing more easily than they have invested before. Obviously there was an adjustment of the country in the years of the crisis. In the last two years, however, in particular, this environmental investment-friendly development has been more pronounced on both licensing and business authorisation. The "one-stop Service" already works. As far as licensing and control are concerned, the section that has been made with the notification and then the control of undertakings, as to whether they fulfil the conditions, is very important. Of course, the creation of institutional frameworks in too many areas is also important. I am thinking, for example, of clinical studies, of the use of healing water, of medical tourism, and I am referring to the law on medicine and industrial cannabis. A new institutional framework is being established in many areas, which allows for significant investment to be attracted to our country. Can I say we're satisfied? Apparently not. When we talk about level 1% or 1.5% or 2% of foreign direct investment, we do nothing. This must be increased very clearly. But it won't increase if the pathogens of a past great. I accept the criticism that is being made to us and say that the criticism of the Opposition is actually causing us to change, change what has been shaped in previous years. That's the challenge. Because what has been shaped in recent years, which has been shaped in the 1990s and 2000s, as a development model, needs to be changed and changed. We are already in this process not as fast as it should, but obviously it will change. Let me give one last example and close. Because we have also discussed this in a committee of Parliament, I should like to refer to the ship repair industry. You'll remember the conversation we had about the Scaramaga shipyards, maybe some of you. Greek shipowners have the largest private fleet in the world. Greece has excellent infrastructure and has not been in a shipyard for many years now. It has specialized human resources and has no shipyard that operates and has practically zero ship repair. This process has actually started over the last year. That's not what we did, but we found it, like many other things we found in this situation. My colleague mentioned sugar. How did we find the sugar? Indebted and under the control of the bank. That's how we found the Sugar Industry. And we found her producing sugar at twice as much cost as the price on the shelf. That's the picture. If that's why you're on your way, I think you're wrong. We have to solve this and we'll solve it. I assure you, we'll solve this. But that's the problem. It's not that there was a blooming operation that we destroyed. She was a problematic, overdebted, late saving her. We'll save her, though. And we'll save her in the right way. This also applies to many other industries that need to be saved, such as ship repair and others. We're in the process of solving them. Because I see Mr. Papatheodorou, I would like to say that you had come to my office once on the subject of the Patras port zone. He informed me how many attempts had been made in the past to solve it. We solved it in a few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u78	Minister, it hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u79	We have solved this in a few months and not only this, but almost all of Greece, for all the ports, for all the ports. To finish, I think we're wrong to describe the situation you described earlier here. We're much better. And we're better off in the negotiation. I believe that your predictions will be disproved and we will be going to a final result which may not be the best, but it will be much better than what you describe and will give the country a huge opportunity to develop over the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 21 February 2018 and Monday 26 February 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u81	The minutes of Wednesday 21 February 2018 and Monday 26 February 2018 were therefore validated. Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. The first is Mr Andreas Loverdos, Member of the Region of Athens, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes with the relative tolerance, you have six and three minutes later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. As a parliamentarian, I will make an extensive reference to development issues, but you will allow me, Mr President, to make a reference to foreign policy and defence issues, which are so much in the context of the Greek state, that is, both the state and its leadership and the society themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong for some - who say so - to say that on our external and defence issues our main problem is Mr Kammenos, while, if it were not Mr Kammenos, SYRIZA would do well. In fact, there is public controversy between you two government partners, but in the end, in your policies you are single, you are exactly the same. And whoever listened to Mr. Kouvelis this morning at SKAI would understand that would see with arguments and hear that you are consecrating Greece's foreign policy issues: splitting together, populism at the fall of the previous government in an anti-constitutional manner together, as well as in the philology of silver MPs who voted Mr. Dimas, in September's programs together with the slogan "or we will end them or we will end." You have won the elections, you have accepted the responsibilities of the Greek state, you are three years and three months now, but the only truth of all this is that you are really finishing, because you have deleted your clean exit, not the country's clear exit from its suffering, but your clear exit from the country's governance and from the parliamentary majority. I would like to stress that for the Opposition and for us in particular, for the Change Movement, you have contradictions in our foreign and defence policy, not only as SYRIZA - ANEL, which you have - and are very characteristic, and the contradictions between the Minister and the Deputy Minister for Defence - but you have contradictions between your policies, which are sometimes expressed by the Prime Minister. Other Saturday, sultan on Sunday, Erdogan. Trying to score one week, full attack on these terms next week. There is therefore a problem for us, as a opposition, which we are doing in a very responsible way, while neglecting the division, our duties in foreign policy and defence, we have real and not rhetorical anxiety to see with what government policy we need to adapt to express what the country needs, namely its unity. One example of who we are dealing with is the current one: "Kathemerin" for the rental of two frigates of the FREMM type. I have heard Mr Kuveli say that it is a very good energy and the speech of the Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, is slowly being made available in 2013, in which he considers it unacceptable to rent freshmen and these specific ones he considers inappropriate. In other words, we have another example today on such sensitive issues of your absolute demagogue, a demagogy that goes beyond the limits and which does not respect - and it did not respect - the need for Greece to have a unified political system, at least in foreign and defence matters. We have been teaching the opposite for three and a half years here, which you continue to split and hit under the waist. Ladies and gentlemen, let us join with the voice of my own Parliamentary spokesman on today's agenda: we see, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, under what conditions, the major problem of the country which is developing is being discussed in Parliament. We're in the Chamber, and it's the Deputy Minister of Government, Mr. Pitsirlas. It is a debate that I do not know whether it will be covered by the media on the issue of development, not by other means. And yet, one would say that more attention is paid to this issue, which, unfortunately, even if it came to the plenary, at the level of political leaders, the issue of development, there would be convergences on other issues, and that, as is the case for many years now, not only would it cover a very small part of the speeches of the Heads of State or of the Members of Parliament. In general, we are concerned with the issue of development, but the political interest and the journalistic interest in it is very, very small. We are provoking the timely question and it is technically wickedness of Mr Odysseus Constantinople - and we thank him for that - for giving the issue the timely question by divorcing. Is it, uh, incompetence or is it ideality? In this way, Mr President, with the 'or' diabetics to provoke the debate on an issue that does not have a divorce, he has both. And you have demonstrated, outside the limits of incompetence, but you also have such an ideality in relation to the economy, which cannot withstand the overall operation of the overall economy, but may also include micro-enterprise cases, which are really very small, which seem to you innocent, in relation to your ideology and for which you may have been positive. You are not, however, in practice, because you have taxed them in the most cruel way and the contributions you have imposed are profitable. It's also ideoscopy, it's incompetent. It's a mixture of a murder weapon that kills. Killing combo, we would say so in order to reach agreement on non-policy terms. Ladies and gentlemen, there are very serious issues. What about the economy? See how we have drawn up the topical and urgent question, and listen to what we in this Chamber say, the Members who support our question. Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos says: development law. It is one of the things that is a small instrument when it provides for 480 million, but it is an instrument. The question and its oral position have been put to you. There's more. It is the law on the abolition of licenses that you were praised for voting in 2016 and I said that the license is being abolished. Because under a licence there are partial procedural conditions that are as they were. You can get permission and open up, but you have not been checked on whether the conditions related to the property you have exploited have been met. Were these three years delays? It's been four. The bureaucracy has increased. Take it down and the means for which you were so proud to speak here. And we have more. We have the extrajudicial compromises. Mr Constantinople said so, with the help of my colleague Mr Papadopoulos from the majority. Twenty-eight cases alone, but a hundred intakes. When was that voted? Papadimitriou Minister. When was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u83	Strategic Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u84	Strategic Minister. In 2016. We have too many cases of major issues, which prove to be other cases you have done and others. You have no idea where things are going and you don't understand exactly how the country has to work to win what it needs. Problems are a lot and some come from behind. I agree with what you said. Obviously, I agree. But the point is, what is everyone doing? You have unfortunately remembered the example of economic followers. I, when I took over the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs in 2002, received a request from 1993 to unify the diplomatic bodies. In fact, I received a service from the Ministry of Finance, which was ready to go to the courts, to the Council of State. In three months' time the agency was transferred and we now have opportunities for a home in the country abroad, in every country we have representation. What, however, did not happen in the three years and three months that you are, but in the previous months - I agree - with the exception of the Venizelos period? What didn't happen? It has not been incorporated into the duty of our diplomatic services to pay great attention to investment. This has not been done and it is very serious. Do you now blame the unification of the country's representations? You're making a mistake, very big mistake. I should like to mention to you businesses that have closed down - Mrs Kefalidou used the term "trillings" - and with your trippings. Before, however, I mention those who closed down, I should like to make a special reference to the Greek. Mr. Pittsorla, I was on a show at SKAI and you were also a representative of the GOI. Must have been in 2016. You were praised by Mr. Lyritzis, Mr. Economou and I. I happen to meet you for a few decades, and I have no difficulty in commending you, if I think I should. I said, when you left, that as I understand it with indifference, hostility - as you wish, say it - or indifferent sometimes of the whole government, before the end of 2018, we will not have seen light. We are close to the end of the first half of 2018 and the future does not see it being immediate. But when the previous government fell unconstitutional, things were timely. And who were they across the street, and did they really motivate internal conflicts within local government? You! And who did they find on you? Some publishing bands. And you invoke them today? The reality is as I call it, just as I call it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say some of the businesses that have been closed up over your days. Royal Bank of Scotland, ‘Eldorado’. I won't report because I don't have time. And what you haven't done with beatings and tripods! ‘Pepsico - HBI’, ‘Softex’, ‘IMAS’, ‘Makro Hellas&Carry’, ‘Hellenic Style’, ‘Groupon’, but also ‘Eleftherodakis’ and ‘Electronic’. We have too many problems, and if we go to GEMH, eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty enterprises have been closed down. I did not retain exactly what you said about foreign direct investment, but I retain the numbers I read, that our country had in 2016 been downgraded over your own days on the relevant lists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u85	It's not right. I gave a painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u86	You'll say it. I heard you. You'll fix it if you have any opposite evidence. In the field of thought and suggestions now. It's been an object I've been dealing with for years. I have not had the opportunity - apart from the opportunity I had at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to carry out relevant tasks in this House either, but I am also involved in a systematic manner. Does the Prime Minister wonder why investment is not being made? If he really wonders and doesn't wonder rhetoric, then he's really stranger to the subject, he doesn't understand. You would be told that the first and main problem for an investor - we all say it - is tax instability. You are not telling me: you who wanted to make progressive - undemocratic - revisions to the Constitution, I will tell you that there is no progressive and reactionary revision of the Constitution. These are discoveries of the type of antidemocratic, bureaucratic, type that if you think about it, that is to say, to transform our common rule of democracy, into a rule that is related to our parties and you tell Europe that, you would have slaps in response. There is, of course, no one here dealing with the issue - and fortunately - and all this goes as if it had not been heard. But have you thought, how could there be fiscal stability? A thought has been made in the context of the 'progressive' - anti-democratic fundamentally - a review that you are thinking about and discussing three years and you are turning it into the cafés? Have you considered whether it can be handled? Have you considered how this matter would be resolved for at least a few years, even when the Constitution was revised? You haven't thought about it. You are interested in things like this, to make fun of the world, how the President of the Republic will be elected, etc. Have you considered the issue of tax instability how the Greek state responds? You haven't thought about it. We have constantly changed the terms of investment. I had built one of the things you did at the expense of the OPAP. Do you have any picture of whether it's improved or whether the bureaucracy has progressed? It didn't improve, it didn't progress. The bureaucracy has deteriorated in the time of the crisis. Have you considered specific measures? Mr Papatheodorou mentioned the subject of universities aimed at foreign undergraduate students outside the European Union, for which there will of course be tuition fees. I had legislated four such cases. They had begun to function in the "mind" of universities, which assimilated the obligation, leading to the "Democritus" of Thrace. What were my first thoughts? The first one was in Greek. The second in tourism and shipping. I legislated them and moved on. A decree was needed when we fell as a government. Your Minister has done away with it. Your MPs have built it up. We would now have at least a thousand students who would pay their tuition fees for it. It is a very concrete measure and it is tolerated by Article 16 of the Constitution. Sleepy deep and hostility, ideological hostility, that is, ideology. Have you thought about the waste? There is no greater investment than this throughout the country. This is a constant attempt to assimilate new technologies and make money. But here in the'maximum' of the bureaucracy you have borne, a project which now relates to a modern waste management programme, when the bureaucratic process ends in five years, it will have been depreciated and two new ones will have come out. Is that what you're busy with? Apparently, you don't. Mr. Maniotis said a lot about the energy. I don't have time. I've brought his studies. If there were no "Greek Petroleum" to save the honour of this government and the efforts of 2011-2014, those governments and Yiannis Maniotis in particular, would have been thrown into Kaidas. Mr Jellonis spoke of the rural economy. I'm not an expert, but I'm looking after him to understand. I hear the Minister, Mr. Apostolos, also when the opposition speaks laughing. I'm not an expert, and I can't interfere. I would very much like to know exactly what matters are, but I understand that from the general framework of your agricultural policy you are elsewhere, where the concern of the modern farmer is. I have a lot to say, but I don't have time. Instead, we have another situation. The growth started in 2014, closed that year on balance sheet in specific numbers from you. You accepted the 0.8%, which at the time you disputed, and the forecasts of everything now after three years of constant growth, more than 3%, would have reached the people. Because in the first second year the results have budgetary imprints and concern public finances. Your Minister for Finance has never spoken of business once. Once! It deals with national accounts and nothing else. But in order for growth to pass on to the citizen, to the worker, a circle has to be made to the entrepreneur. This cycle you delayed four years, to be now somewhere far before we were in 2014, because there have been charges. And we have not been demolished, we are not slandering, we are not stumbling you from January 2015. We're not trying to divide Greek society, even though you're giving us opportunities. We did not dominate by flag the class hatred you carry from Marxism - Leninism, a concept to make it completely obscene today, to humiliate you, to walk you in a way, truly, memorable and in the Greek Parliament, George Scampardonis. I read his texts on class hate, and I'm polishing, because they really photograph you. They photograph your despair, photograph your social envy - not yours, generally the executives of the space you belong to. Everyone who is thinking of dealing with you - I do not belong to them, the Change Movement does not belong to them - that all your names, division, demagogy, and populism will be charged. They will regain "SYRIZA live stars". Because you are such a case, which is reflected in the Greek political system. You'll look elsewhere for insolent co-responsibles not to us. We have drawn up a line and we are unanimous and this conference has been captured. It's been captured that we're looking at our own selfless, autonomous course. Anyone who thinks he's degraded with who's going is fatal. And our party is being elected, because it is just trying to draw up an autonomous and self-evident course. Take these into account, as far as defence, foreign affairs, the economy and civil management are concerned. I close with this: you yourself said, one by one, one by one, that in taxation, in fact, there were weaknesses, mistakes, corruption. But you are stars of transparency, of skill, of purity. I just want to show you one thing. Borgians himself for his list says he's very unhappy with your low collections. Even where you acted as archangels, you could do something! So I'm closing up with that thought. The package of issues is all in your hands. You're three years and three months in power. Would you please sit down? You know how long you're gonna sit down. But find them among you as government for how long you will sit and the time you are lacking, it is time for you to do something about what we have mentioned today in our current question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA and MP Kozanis Dimitris Dimitriadis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, Minister, the question of the Democratic Reconciliation raises questions which she herself considers to have responded historically and probably incorporated them into her physical knowledge. The question of "experts or ideas" indicates first of all how it considers its relationship to investment and privileged and given. It means its governance has always been within objectives, transparent, developmental and the best that it has had high investment rates. He's filing too much insinuation alone - why? - about what we didn't do or what we're not going to do to attract foreign investment. None of this, however, is confirmed by their institutions, their representatives and international actors. None of the previous ones is confirmed either by the data or by the economic indicators. The opposite is true. That is why this group does not use any figures and does not tell us any of its own examples - for what it has done - in order to defend its restrictive policy of subjection since 2010 and then either having autonomy in 2010-2012 or with New Democracy and LAOS or with New Democracy and DIMAR. The restrictive mixture applied by today's Democratic Partnership when it was in the government, along with its neighbours that I mentioned to you in previous years and which led the country to a downward cycle of reduced domestic demand, increasing unemployment and reduced availability of income, seems to be of no concern to them, as if others did. They do not concern the loss of 1/4 of GDP, the loss of 65.5% of the volume of investment between 2008 and 2014, the average annual decline in Greek domestic demand by 6%, the decrease in household gross nominal disposable income by 7.5%, the huge unemployment rate reached 27.5%, while the average wage was reduced by 17%. It's not their creation, but someone else might, just because they want it and because they think so. They finally think it's enough to give in to others so you can transform yourself. The fact that he is asking the question, he accepted the surpluses he has never been able to carry out - has accepted 6.5%, 4.5% and 5.5% of the surplus each year - with only a single signature for the evaluation. The fact that he never met the agreed growth rates, which the next day when he signed them, challenged the basic terms of the agreement that he signed, this fact is asking this question, the fact that he eventually lost all credibility. We managed to keep the economic sizes from the devastating catastrophe they had taken. We have achieved surpluses quite simply from the previous ones last year, 4.2%. In 2017, the freezing capital ratio marked a significant increase of around 10%. We have closed the evaluation without new measures, and we are finally closing the committee's cycle. The country, in short, comes out of the memorials, which does not fit into their own perspective, which they dare not even confuse. We are completing the medium-term debt arrangement, the next one, while remaining firm, because our lenders have accepted our pursuits, which is a growth and sustainability clause. You will allow me here and a clarification. Based on the programme, by 2018, which we have agreed, the surplus that we achieve, however large it may be, is reinvested within the economy and is not impaired for the benefit of the debt, as was the case by 2015. This will also happen in 2018, capitalising on the growth of the economy that we have achieved for the benefit of growth and exit from the vicious cycle of austerity. It is given that the "Financial Facility Agreement" programme is completed with the institutions, so stability, credibility and the positive sign are the constant and lasting features of our national development agenda. Our strategy for exiting the crisis was served by four main goals that we have achieved and established. EC countries, economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe economic statistics, foreign trade, Nimexe, Nimexe economic statistics, The most important figures for 2018 also have a very positive sign and confirm this steady course. The growth of the Greek economy, positive growth, the growth of the economy by 12.5%, the increase in exports far over 10%, a surplus close to 4%, a reduction in unemployment to 20.5%. In 2017, Greece re-marketed through a bond issue and a very successful swap in November 2017, while in February 2018 it issued a seven-year bond of 3 billion at a yield rate of just 3.5%. Revenue from GDP therefore rise significantly and consistently in contrast to previous years of downwardism. At the same time, however, we are using all those development tools at our disposal and we have organised them. Development tools are not only the Public Investment Programme, the Development Act, as has been rightly formulated, but also additionals aimed at the greatest possible leverage of public and private resources to boost investment. We aim to attract, support and guarantee foreign investment, under the terms and rules of the modern and prosperous state that we are. Because we don't identify ourselves with specific elites and complications, we're nobody's clients. We do not regard privatization as investment, especially when they are similar to divestment or transfer of public funds to private individuals. We are laying down clear common rules of law to all who are, firstly, governed by the protection of public wealth, public space and common goods, by the protection of social and labour rights, by the protection of the environment and our cultural heritage. We guarantee healthy competition, fiscal stability and a prosperous outlook, and we respect investors themselves and protect them from domestic interoperable systems. In the context of these principles, we have managed all private investment, as well as those that have dealt with us in the previous period and in this Chamber, precisely because they were inaugurated by you, but were remodeled or changed by us clearly in a more positive and stable version. It is worth pointing to these flagrant investments, which demonstrate our differences in management and development strategy. The most characteristic example of our different pursuits is PPC’s example. The specified divestment of the country's largest public company and the transfer of this public wealth into the hands of a few private individuals, that is, we prevented it. You consider it still an advantageous and functional investment! We rescued the operation from bankruptcy. We have maintained public control and strategic importance in national energy planning. And this with very difficult budgetary conditions, with suffocating control and a drug-drug-drug approach. At the same time, we authorised and supported the construction of Ptolemais 5, a project of 1.4 billion. EUR 700,000,000 with financing from the German Investment Bank. As far as IPTO is concerned, we maintained public control by abolishing privatising it, and we have achieved far more important economic exchanges, beyond all expectations, from the strategic partner that participated. Fourthly, regarding the Greek, legal procedures have been completed, the Presidential Decree was adopted and the next steps concern joint ministerial decisions, casino license and evacuation of the space. The EPC is another example where the alleged investment previously agreed by you was waste and irregular in breach of European directives and of public interest. The new contract participates huge companies, plus 150 million more, with 34% more in public control and a number of advantages in the administration that ensures the public interest. As far as the TAP is concerned, a simple transit agreement was transformed by us into a development project and a tool for strengthening our geostrategic position. PPA: investments of around EUR 500 million are planned for the next decade in the port of Piraeus. As far as the EGF is concerned, the competition is over. The total price of the agreement is 1,1 billion and includes, in addition to the offer of 232 million, the direct price and compulsory investments amounting to EUR 180 million soon. As regards "Greek Gold" in Skouria Halkidiki, from the three questions to the arbitration, the two responded unanimously that firstly, the production of pure gold and copper is an integral part of the overall contract and secondly, that the non-production of pure gold - copper constitutes a breach of the contract. In the third question, which was answered by a majority, the majority answer is that the company has not yet breached the contract and the ministerial guidelines are therefore expected to do so. The public finally expects the investor to prove that he will produce pure gold and copper without environmental effects, as the contract provides. In short, we expect self-evident and legal. Direct foreign investment in Greece - as my time has ended, I will be brief enough to do so - is an area that has always been problematic. It was almost never more than 1% of GDP. However, in 2017, according to the Bank of Greece, the net influx of foreign direct investment in Greece amounted to 3,590,000,000 euros compared to 2,774,000 of 2016. In other words, there was a 30% increase. In 2016, the increase was 82% compared to 2015, which was, indeed, a bad year in terms of foreign direct investment. The acquisitions from foreign companies in 2017-2018 are about EUR 1 billion. Here we need to add the acquisition of DONSKOY TABAK by JAPAN TOBACCO, 1.6 billion, which includes the company 'SECAP', and that is why I am referring to it. The privatisation investments are: ‘FERROVIE ITALIA’ investment for ‘TRAINOSE’. The 'FRAPORT', which has been completed with us. With regard to 'Eleftherios Venizelos' EUR 600 million for the extension of the contract. Investments in industry and energy: The investment of 400m euros for a second production line of alumina was announced by the "Mytilini Group" and the proposal to PPC for the financing of the Amyntaios Group in exchange for a long-term electricity contract of "Aluminium of Greece" as well as a second intervention of 300m euros was announced. ‘PHILIP MORRIS’. The EUR 300 million investment was completed by Papastratos a year after its announcement and this is very important. ‘ELVAL HALKOR’. EUR 150 million investment. ‘Athensian Zythmia’. Investments amounting to EUR 67 million. "Greek Brewery of Atalant." EUR 10 million investment. 'Terna Energy'. for 2018 EUR 280 million investment at the Hybrid Station of Amario Crete. ‘Plastic Thrace’. EUR 29 million investment this year, following on from EUR 57 million in the past two years. 'Andromeda Group'. EUR 40 million investment. ‘AEGEAN’. EUR 3 billion investment. In tourism there have been huge investments of several billion euros, which I will not mention over time. Everyone knows them. Twelve contracts totalling 633 million have been signed in the PPPs and another three have already been approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u89	Don't give the wrong information to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u90	No wrong evidence. The evidence is here, Mr. Comrade. I would be happy to ask a question in my dentistry and give it to you in writing. I have it with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u91	For the PPPs, tell us about the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u92	The PPPs here are the painting. I'll testify to him now. The PPPs that have been made are 12 contracts worth 633m euros and have already been approved for three other schools in the Municipality of Chania, the building of a personalized medical facility in Athens and the renovation and exploitation of the Nisyros Municipal Loutras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u93	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u94	I'm filing them with the paintings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Constantinople, he's filing it. Mr. Colleague, we've reached twelve minutes. Please let's be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I shall end. I'm sorry about the time violation. So we're one step before leaving the memorials and surveillance. We're holding the key in our hands to get out of the crisis. We're aiming at credibility. We won the investors' confidence in 2017, we take off investments in 2018 and we continue. In two months' time the memorial age is ending and we will walk with dignity in a new era of growth and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Demetriades. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy and MP Rethymnon, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, has the floor for six minutes. Tolerant, of course, like everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I really do, and I honestly wonder what is more regrettable. Will a question come for discussion, which was tabled seven months ago - in particular on 5 October 2017 - or that while it went through all this famous, unfortunately remains timely, even more time-consuming than the time in which it was tabled? As far as the delay is concerned, you also agreed that this does not honor the government, but it does not honor Parliament. Unfortunately, however, this is not the first time, and I'm afraid it won't be the last one. Unfortunately, the government, with the majority of the Bureau of Parliament, has inactivated the function of Parliament and I think it would not stick to the parliamentary control, and, unfortunately, it has inactivated the operation of Parliament, precisely in order to serve its communication tactics. I would remind you that the government continues, to a very large extent, the bad practice of the late-term governments, followed by other governments, which you said you would stop it, continue the bad practice, the ministers who have to answer the timely questions are missing from Parliament. I remember Mr Constantinople waiting nine months to answer a question. The worst of all is that we see that many of the minority rights in the functioning of Parliament are not accepted. And I will mention a typical example, which has taken quite a large proportion of the work done yesterday by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. We as a New Democracy have denounced the manners of the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, in relation to the missiles, illegal mediators and Saudi Arabia. And while we had all agreed in this Chamber that this would be discussed within the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, we saw that, in an authoritarian way, the chairman of the committee, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, refused the demands of the whole opposition. In fact, when the Scientific Council of Parliament came in and gave an opinion in favour of parliamentary control, i.e. the right of its minority to control the Minister of National Defence for this convention, we saw that it was inappropriate to try to close it, saying that only the Minister of National Defence will be invited to the respective committee of the Parliament and that, for example, the mediator, Mr Papadopoulos and all other persons who would shed light on this matter. I mention all this because it is not an isolated incident of deterioration in Parliament's functioning to delay the debate on this question. Let me come to the point now. Minister, because, in fact, I consider you to be one of the few serious ministers of this government, I assumed that today you would choose to come to Parliament and answer very specific questions with very specific elements. You did something very cleverly, in other words a speech which, in the first place, shows that our economy is in a better state of being dismantled and can convince the central committee of SYRIZA, does not convince Parliament and certainly does not convince the whole of Greek society. The question is whether what you have told us responds to the reality of the Greek economy, as is experienced by everyone, by the businessman, by the free trader or by responding to the reality that this government has shaped over the last three and a half years. Because, Minister, the reality at the moment is that, while Europe of twenty-eight runs at a rate of growth of net investment in 3.5% of GDP, we see that Greece in 2017 remained negative at around 3.9% of GDP minus 4%. In other words, Greece, unlike all European Union countries, remained negative in terms of net investment, at minus 4% in 2017. And if he's untrue with that number, disobey it, please. The reality, too, is that while the share of investment in Europe averaged twenty-eight is at 20%, in Greece of 2017 it remained at 13%. It is also a number that, please, disprove or confirm it. The reality is, furthermore, that in the Doing Business index, the indicator, which measures the friendliness of a country in terms of investment, Greece remains thirty places under the European Union of twenty-eight and forty-four positions below the countries with the best five investment performances. In the World Economic Forum's Competitiveness Index 2018, Greece lost sixteen posts, at the same time, Minister, which the Europe of twenty-eight improved. Of course, as if not all of this had happened, it was the International Monetary Fund that, unfortunately, in 2018, the planned growth rate was revised from 2.6% in October to 2% - and many, in fact, say it will fall below 2% - when at the same time in the Eurozone, a member of which is, of course, Greece, the revision was positive, from 1.9% to 2.4%. Let me remind you - because SYRIZA's dear colleague also said that you have actually transformed the economy - that you received the debt to 180% of GDP in 2014 and at the moment that we are talking about it reaches 191.3%, on the basis of the data presented by the National Bank of Greece. And I am very afraid that if we continue at these rates in 2020, it will still be more. I heard one argument that between 2011 and 2014 the country's GDP decreased by 25%. Indeed, during the crisis, it fell to 25%. However, if, in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, we followed the course - what the European institutions told you, which you have made them your interlocutors - that the economy should continue at the rate we left in 2014, this ground in 3⁄4 would have covered it. By 20%, if you put a total increase in the economy between 2015 and 2018, the lost ground would have been covered during the crisis. Instead, we had a government. Indeed, one sees it, if one compares the performances of the other European countries, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus. Some of these have been "driven" at a growth rate of 5% and 7%. Unfortunately, however, because of the SYRIZA Government, the years from 2015 to 2018 were four lost years for the economy. And I am saying this because, based on all the forecasts - both domestic observers and generalists from Europe - we have seen that these years, instead of having a growth rate of 2.5% and 3.5%, as all predictions were, we have unfortunately only had a recession and an anemic growth in the last year. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a question. And as colleagues from the Democratic Integration have pointed out, attracting investment, new jobs and disinvestment and, of course, unemployment are not things that can be described as natural phenomena. They are the results of a government plan or, unfortunately, of the lack of a government plan, i.e. an absence of a government plan, which has its roots in two undeniably collective traits of the current government. And these are: First, the reluctance to support investment because of allergy to any private initiative, and second, combined, a proven inability to support even policies which are otherwise perfectly suited to an allegedly alternative left policy. Minister, I am not naive to believe that your government will agree with these assumptions, but with the figures I mentioned earlier, I think it is undeniable. You have, in fact, tried to demonstrate to us that some of these private initiatives are going ahead. Let me remind you, of course, that none of these flagrant private initiatives were supported by the fact that you came from when you were opposition. All of them were voted against: The Greek, the 'FRAPORT', all these initiatives that Mr SYRIZA mentioned. Of course, when you came to power, you turned a hundred and eighty degrees and suddenly remembered that all these investments were good. Even this and your shift towards realism is something positive for the country. Do not, however, come now as ministers of the private initiative when you - not yourself personally, I mean your Government - were those who reacted to any private initiative in every investment effort. We remember, for example, in Crete Mr Polakis saying he would lie down in the middle of the airport if the airport of Chania was handed over to "FRAPORT". Of course, we're still waiting for him, and I think we'll wait for him a long time. You mentioned in your speech, like the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRZA, that you have unlocked the investment in the Greek, that you have advanced the privatisation of DESFA, that you have completed the privatization of the EAT. It is, however, something which, unfortunately, has delayed too much, is still delaying and waiting until the final signatures fall. And we're too skeptical until the whole process is completed. You have to tell us, however, how all this is directly related to mobility, as you said, in tourism and especially in the holiday home, since when you were in the opposition you fought very hard against all the efforts made by the previous government, saying, in fact, that Greece will become a great Costa Brava of Spain. But what I expect from you, Minister, is that you accept with honesty to the Greek people that as left-wing people you do not believe these investments. You will necessarily do so because you are in government. But when you do not believe in these investments, then we fear that, unfortunately, all these delays and excuses will continue because they do not go ahead with all these projects. And if at some point a signature is dropped, you might say that 'we did something as a government'. In July 2015, Minister, you undertook an obligation to privatise EUR 6.5 billion until August 2018 when the Memorandum of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks ends. At this point, I would like to say that you have an invention as a government. While you are trying to pass the message on clean exit, just the day before yesterday Mr. Tsakalots told us this imaginary title "Memorary Monitoring Programme". If it's not supervision, what else is it? And, of course, I am sure that next time you will also find another imaginary title to tell us the measures of EUR 5.2 billion, which you have voted on for 2019 and 2020, what you will call them. Well, it's definitely not a clean exit. And I ask you: From the EUR 6.5 billion anticipated under the privatisation programme in August 2018, you currently have EUR 2.8 billion. How will you cover the remaining 3.7 billion euros in the next three months? Sadly, you seem to be going to cover it with overcrowding. Because, unfortunately, your reluctance, your ideology, your uncertainty, your inability to pay taxes from the citizens, from the country's productive web just to remain in power. And to use, Mr Minister, and one of your own words, 'Mr Tsipras's Left is released from stateism'. We don't see that thing. So is it better to talk about public investment? You have already spoken about a number of issues which, to date, seem to be unrealistic. I think it's best if we don't talk about it. But I would like to ask you this: Three years since the start of the programming period, how much euro have you given businesses? The answer, Mr Minister, is 'zero'. And if it were not for roads which were included as programmes - bridges from the previous NRP, then, unfortunately, absorption would be even more disappointing. In fact, Mr. Haritsis, your colleague, has parked a number of funds in various funds such as TPIX, Equifund, so they are supposed to appear as absorbed. I'm on it. Absorption of waste management projects: zero. Mr. Haritsis now incorporates the studies and not the projects. Organic cleaning works in small municipalities of EUR 1 billion, also in zero. Mr. Haritsis announces that he'll be all right now. If, indeed, he wants to respond to this criticism, it is important to give concrete figures per programme - and other colleagues have asked you earlier, from the other parties - and to indicate what percentages of these funds are compatible and what percentage they have been disbursed. You know, often you give evidence of compromised projects and present them as mature projects that have already been disbursed, and in reality there is a huge difference between these two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u99	Dear colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, Minister, Greek society knows very well that the country's development prospects, the liquidity of the economy, the social state, the services to the citizens, all seem to be mortgaged in the famous pillow. We are warning you from now: do not use what I have mentioned before, namely the possibility of liquidity for the economy, social policy, a possible struggle for the next six or seven months, which will really undermine the social structures, the prospects of the country. To close, I'll tell you that, apparently, the 19, 20 billion-dollar pillow doesn't come out of nothing. In fact, if you read the press today, in a presentation by PRICEWATERHOUSCOOPERS, we need 110 billion investments by 2022, i.e. some 22 billion investments per year. But when the Deputy Prime Minister comes here, Mr Liakos, just yesterday with his statement and says that by 2020 the tax rates cannot change, that is, for the next three years, the businessman will have a tax rate that does not allow him to grow, I really do wonder how you are optimistic, I really wonder how these investments will come to the country, which he so much needs. It is a statement by your colleague, Mr Liakou, just yesterday, that tax rates will not change until 2020. I conclude, Minister, by saying this: our country cannot stand any more lies and experimentations. And under no circumstances can he withstand any more fraud or fraud. You have every right, as government, to manage your upcoming defeat. But you have no right to do this to the detriment of the Greek economy and the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much Mr. Kefaliannis. Parliamentary Representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn and MP II District of Athens Mr.Ilias Panagiotaros for six minutes, with tolerance as all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to refer to an incident that happened this morning at the entrance of the House. A lady was invited to come to discuss a matter, and the Security of the House has stopped it, arrested it and brought in, because - she says - they found that she had a KOK case, the Road Traffic Code, since 1998. At the moment, this lady is between A.T.T. The Constitution and Public Prosecutor's office is obviously a case that, as you all understand, has been dropped. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Since you are so great with the new systems and pinch anyone who has an obligation to the law, you should be the same large, so that when something has been filed, someone has been acquitted, this gets on the computer and you don't have to trouble the cosmac. At the same time, of course, various others who owe to anyone speaking Greek and to many other languages are circulating undisturbed both inside and outside Parliament. Today, we are discussing the timely question of PASOK, the chameleon party, which changes its names more quickly than its underwear on large investments. We have heard the PASOK MPs, the Change, Democratic Incorporation Movement - one of them all - express their concerns and concerns about the future of investment in our country. Of course, you are in the extremely guilty past. What should we want to do first? Deinvestments? The shutdown? The departure of Greek companies abroad in the 1980s, the 1990s and the New Democracy and with SYRIZA and with ANELs and all those who ruled this place? We heard a PASOK MP speaking about the Greek Sakharovian industry. Of course, the very great evil began in the Karamanlis government, where for 80m euros, if I am not mistaken, we gave quotas and rights. And since then, the curse of the Greek Sakhari industry began, no one - neither PASOK after the New Democracy, nor SYRIZA after the PASOK - to do anything to save this huge industry, which gave jobs to tens of thousands of farmers, producers, but also workers. Remember the inability to absorb funds from PASOK in the 1980s and 1990s? Now you are all talking about the 'Yunker package'. Should we take you a little earlier in the famous 'Delor package', where was it from the times when the European Union gave Greece enormous sums and even demanded them and claimed them by your former Chief, Andreas Papandreou? You took the money, but you didn't have what to do with and they finally ended up in something Cayenne and some rural buddies. Remember the over-estimates of everything, the scandals, the seas? Remember the many anti-government laws and your governments, but - up to our days - and the SYRIZA and ANEL anti-government laws, where the only ones who benefit from are the various'speakers' from time to time, who are the only ones who make little investment in our homeland? The overcompensation of all these years and your governments, as well as of the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - ANEL, has first led to the first Memorandum, the most burdensome of all, because then the debt of individuals to private banks has been converted, through this memorandum, into a mortgage debt of the entire Greek people in third countries, with what we have been experiencing for about eight years. We also have the famous PSI that you present as a success, but that in the end the only ones affected were the public bodies and the small ones, who were timeless pillars of the Greek economy. After you and New Democracy came to power in 2015, SYRIZA and ANELs, in order to rectify supposedly the bad texts and indifferences of the past, as we were told. Instead, gentlemen of the conflict, you extended the destruction to the entire spectrum of Greek society, except illegal immigrants who live their dream in Greece. They are the only ones who collect from everywhere and give no reason to anyone and nothing. And we saw how you perceive, gentlemen of the conflict, growth with these wonderful development conferences across Greece, which you are making, and so in time, to coincide with what all of this is about. This has also been done in Rhodes, where, of course, we have seen a real growth in SYRIZA executives. That is, from tents and sleeping bags, have fun at the five best hotels. And, of course, the Greek people pay the bill! The story of the development you are selling, gentlemen of the conflict, is a fairy tale that has a very bad end for Greek citizens. The bureaucracy is perhaps the worst problem in the Greek society for anyone who wants to invest. Do not forget that Emir of Qatar came a few years ago and bought land, bought things with the facilities, facilities and blessings of the government at the time and finally failed to put a single brick, because bureaucracy in this country prevails both between the Prime Ministers and the Ministers and the Presidents of the new Greek Republic and all. And, of course, the investor from Qatar left badly. This is the case from the first to the last one who wants to invest in our country and does not insist, but stands up and leaves, apart from them - I repeat - who are'speaked' and know what is going on. Of course, even the "speakers" have problems, as is this "investment" in Greek. Remember, in PASOK, the 1996 HOCHTIEF Convention on Freedom of Venizelos, which was - if I am not mistaken - the first contract with English law, where the HOCHTIEF was not forced and paid about EUR 400,000, 000, VAT to the Greek State, was also entitled to the courts and were charged with more than EUR 50,000,000 to the law firm in which the Greek Government awarded the case? Remember and talk about the Greek, a contract at an incomplete price so far, where only - scales, whatever the "investor" may not lose, because even if it falls out, there are clauses in the contract and will be compensated. The ultimate fault, the one who will pay for the broken, anyway, is again the Greek people. And when the investment time comes, then we'll see what happens, how many jobs there will be, who will work, whether they are Greek or foreign and anything else. Remember the sale of airports, ports, trains and all infrastructures, culminating in the sale of PPC, this huge business with the trillion-euro infrastructure, where in recent years did you give them for a reasonable price at first and second? Should we go to the highways? Just the day before yesterday, some statistics were available for these famous PPPs. They cost 1.2 billion euros on the three roads. Increase in spending 36%. Double funding. Reduction of 55% of the area and the vast majority of project workers are not Greek but foreign. I'm telling you to figure out what's going on. The cherry on the cake, of course, is the toll. They are the most expensive in Europe, without even having compensatory benefits. Korodias at the expense of the Greek public and Greek citizens. Let us go a little bit to the New Democracy that we have now heard from the Parliamentary Representative, who said how nice things were in the New Democracy - PASOK conflict and how nice they will be when they come back. But then how come all the indicators were at disaster levels up to the day you left? All the others are hypothetical scenarios that it had started growth at the end of 2014 and all that. The point is that you are highly accountable and incompetent, of course, to correct the wrong texts. Correct the bad texts of your party, due to more than EUR 200 million in sea loans. To calculate all the hundreds of millions of euros you have received in state subsidies, parties and others. Can't you take care of your home and want to correct the bad texts of your home, which you brought to a very large extent? Wrong. If we want to talk about growth, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the backbone of a healthy economy is neither the multinationals nor anyone else. The backbone of the healthy economy is the small and medium-sized ones, traders, craftsmen, farmers, farmers and all those who are seeking, above all, a stable and competitive tax environment to stay here and not to go abroad. You see, in the globalised society, which you so much wanted and wished, anyone who leaves Greece will go to Bulgaria, go to Romania, go to Albania, go to Croatia, go to Cyprus, Malta, change their seat, if it is a large multinational, and go to Luxembourg or elsewhere, where taxes there vary between 10%, 12%, the worst of cases at 20%, and not in 45%, which is in our country, where there is an insurance environment much better and much closer. It has completely failed the insurance system in our country. This is above all due to demographics, which not everyone says, regardless of all other failures, the haircuts, the lost money on stock exchanges and elsewhere. Because when there is no staff to work and be insured, there will be no revenue. And we have reached a point in seeing large insurance funds and pensioners' ratios being 1 to 1,8 to 1, when at the worst of cases in order for an insurance fund to be viable should be 1 to 3 or 3.5. It is reasonable that insurance contributions, according to your failed logic, have reached unthinkable levels, that free professionals can no longer respond. You see that. Those who can leave abroad. Those who can carry their seats. Those who can't just close. You will see it in the next two - three years because it is a second year when this absurd measure is applied, with these absurd requirements. Of course, the S.T.E. He made a decision. Now we'll see how the government is going to move it to keep up with a bankrupt insurance system. The micronomists, who all of you chased, and the current rulers supported them, but as soon as you came to their things, you wrote to the oldest of your shoes, it was another pillar, a pillar of the system, it was the ones who invested their money in bonds of the Greek state and supported the Greek economy over time. They go too, they fly, because very simply within one night you completely destroyed them. Once, gentlemen of the conflict, you were talking about debt control. Whatever the lenders want us to do. But if there is a legal audit, it will prove that most of it, according to international law, is burdensome, illegal, shameful and therefore it should be deleted. The loan you've been discussing is a huge capital. Relied on by the Greek economy in '41, in '42, in '43, but it had started to pay off in '44 and stopped in '45, and we don't hear a word from all of you democrats, anti-fascists. You see, Mrs Merkel will make you "da" or anyone else and does not allow you to discuss this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u103	Please complete, Mr. Panayotar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u104	I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. The previous one spoke 16-and-a-half minutes. If there is no protectionism for Greek workers and Greek products, we cannot cope with the global economic situation. The Greek worker can't deal with the share of Chinese or Asian, who's been working all day for 1 dollar, for 1 euro, with inhumane work. Another element that blocks growth is the capital controls. Many companies have closed down over the past three years because of the capital controls, because very simply the competing companies from abroad, which have work here, have ample money influx, while the Greek companies themselves have not been able to borrow either, nor at all, and have been forced to close down very simply. As I said, the insurance is the most important of all, and you should have seen it with a special eye, but rather of the last minute you're doing sloppy. All of this and much more to be done, ladies and gentlemen of the government, want a national government that puts before and above all Greece and the Greeks and not the loan sharks, bankers, illegal immigrants, NGOs and everyone else. When a national regime comes, all of this can be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. H Vice-President of Parliament and Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs Mr Kammenos has the floor. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr Colleague, and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much. An interesting subject has been raised today by Opposition. The question has its interest as it was written down. We also heard Mr Pitsirla's detailed answer. I do not want to go into the debate so much and analyse the question and go to the point of what happened. We're in the period and in the phase that we come out of the difficult sigh. The malignancies of the past must be corrected. The Greek, when not many other investments, as the Minister said, in Afantou and others, were stuck in the archaeology either to the master or to other legal entities governed by public law which have the stamp and power to stick the country's development for their own, as revealed and as proved at the end, interests and possibly syndicate, are something that must be corrected and found the medicine for this disease. The Government must operate independently and consider the interests of the citizen and not the interests of the guilds. And that is what I think the Ministry of Development is doing, and that is why the work of the Ministry and the work of the Ministry has gone ahead. I would like to say two things about the future, if I may. Of the main things - because it is an area in which I have been working for the past twenty-five years - on financing and the development of companies, but also on debt and also on the part of States. Any investment to be made and any development to happen - if this development, let alone, must be an essential national objective and be cross-party - there must be a reduction in political risk. It is one of the main risks that all investors see: Change of government, how much more in Greece, which when you tell anyone that I have an election, does not know which country it is and does not care if it is four or five, because it knows that it will never change this. In Greece no investor ever knows when elections will be held. And in some other Mediterranean countries, but mainly in Greece. This is a very basic part, which we should all see together. The social majority accept the euro. We have people who want to go to the drachma. I think they are harmful to the image of investors, because they never know what will dawn them. No matter how small this percentage is, there can be no percentage of people who want to go violently in direct bankruptcy the country and go to the drachma. Banking monetary stability, medium-term macroeconomic fiscal stability, this will be achieved in the next quarter, four months and next year. Specialized personnel, labour force. These are the ones we need to bring back. We've lost a lot of people. Incentives must be given through newly developed enterprises, through new investments, to scientists come back, because the workforce and minds need these things for many reasons and not only to work, but also to think and discuss and discuss at the cafeteria and where they are and to produce thought and content in any activity in their lives. They've fallen. Significant growth factor. We will now see this with the new objective. I have also made a criticism, to see whether, in the low-wages with high unemployment, it will be possible - or we will have to change the mix - to increase the objective and increase other taxes at the same time. Let's see. We need to see, however, the values of property, because it is a basic lever of development, along with the disease of the real estate register, for which it is not our fault, when it was, my Stergio. You'll allow me to do it. We're not gonna tell you what happened now. We don't have a real estate register. We don't have any terms of use. We don't have a forest. We don't have any yachts. One cannot come and say that this country is normal and can build a house or make a business near the sea or near a mountain. He doesn't know what's going to take him morning. We mentioned the example of the Emir of Qatar, Al Thani - others mentioned it - who bought and then filed his public lawsuits that he illegally owns a land which he sold to the public. The infrastructure needs to be upgraded. The railroads are behind. Their use must be increased, but also the network, as must the quality and speed of transport and safety. I'm telling it all together. We've checked it out. They're missing. That is why privatization is needed, especially for transport and infrastructure. The roads have been made to a very large extent. Ports are growing. There's no growth without a port. When you have one million containers, compared to ten, with fifteen or with thirty million containers in Piraeus, for example, or in the future in Thessaloniki or another large port of the country, that is growth. Then they see you as a development arm and a place where their merchandise can go through to Central Europe or elsewhere. Thus, ports and infrastructures are developing along with airports. That we need some billions of investments, that is well known. They will not come immediately, if we do not all get serious in the political system together, if the banks do not solve the issues with red loans, if we, too, do not find all the legal entities governed by public and private law, which even owe insurance contributions to the public, owe taxes, owe various sums to various investors or our fellow people, and we still have them to be recovered within the budget, and it seems to be a huge debt to the state. Two things could be voted on by the House. It was a far-reaching sentence I had made before. I'll do it again, by the way, given to me today, with the question PASOK asks. It could be voted on not to change taxation for ten years. The second, which could be voted on by Parliament and by everyone, is the stability of taxation. I'm not saying it's 20, twenty-five or fifteen. We will gradually drop it to 20% in the next two years, I imagine. These are the thoughts of the Ministry and all of us. But the stability of taxation from the House could be voted on. The budgetary brake could also be passed in constitutional terms. As strange as it sounds, we do not have and prohibit any government from creating holes in the future, which will require more funding from the markets at greater cost, so that we finance deficits twice, three times, and everything else can come to light. A country's development is a multimetric equation. They need people, the state, the public, the private. They need the laws. All levels of the state need to cooperate and not compete with the private sector. It has happened in our three years, but also in the previous years, that the state competes with the private and anyone who wants to bring their money to that country and invest them. We have a very basic difficulty in understanding. New jobs must be given in order to increase the income of the insurer. I am not talking now about the available family income to be consumed so that someone can produce the consumed product. I am talking about the insurance part, which is the main, as is the part of the pensions. Because a sustainable insurance system shows the health of an economy as much as it can, it is a very important indicator for the health of an economy. We cannot collect less taxes and wait for higher pensions. At the moment the equation is very wrong: we are increasing taxes, because we have no insurance income, and we are covering pension taxes. Pensions must be covered by insurance contributions. This equation is resolved in a way by increasing insurance contributions, not by a percentage of the already employed, but by more workers, regardless of how much money they receive. We need different multipliers. In other words, the second multiplier is growing by a lot. Low tax rates in a large economy ensure more revenue in the funds and more resources available for pensions. It's just an equation. We're not going to go to the curves now, which we did before, I don't remember how many years in finance. Every day, everyday life has learned to all of us whether or not someone has become economically enthusiastic, that taxation cannot dry up the market and go to an insurance contribution. There's another irrational one here. We talked about it one day, Minister, and I want the five Members to hear it, even if they are here. There's a friend from abroad, who's a scientist, and he's permanently gone to work in Germany. When we had coffee, he complained to me because we're cutting off his mother's pension. I tell him that normally, if I was the Prime Minister, I would charge him, who left, to pay for his mother's pension. He says to me: 'Bad, how?' "One minute," I tell him, "Would you expect that you left here, where we are fewer to pay for your mother's pension and mine? That's not how it works. The equation in mathematics and economics doesn't come out. We must all be here to work to pay the pensions of all the insolvents and of all the people who have been retired in Greece." Those who go - and there are countries that have done so, are not here, but - they take income away from the country, they take value, they take away what I said, healthy, intelligent thinking. Tomorrow we go to a panel and talk. We need people with high IQ. When we lose five hundred thousand smart people, it's a home problem. As well, it is a problem for businesses. They have to go back, no matter how hard it is to stay and get a job here. There are some who have a real problem and some who leave for other reasons. I respect those who have a survival problem. I'll respect it perfectly. This friend of mine was from the Polytechnic. I say this because they find it easy to find work abroad because of the capacity of the engineer. They must come back, because the country needs brains and jobs. Let's all fight together. It is not possible for the system to raise supportive people and an insolvent pension system, without currently having insurance contributions and for workers to leave abroad. I know it's a tough equation. It is, however, an honest debate to be held. I will not get to the conversation that has to be done in Germany these days. In an interview I had at the Russia TODAY the day before yesterday, I was told about the workers' hands on the migrants who contribute to the German economy and Europe's economies. I objected to them that the International Monetary Fund, in the reports I have - and I have given them to read them - shows that, when migrants work, the average wage in all countries is falling, debt increases and, of course, there is a problem of terrible expenses. We must all democratically resolve this in Europe and Greece, the problem of the integration of these people into our societies, socially, politically, with their shelter, etc. It is an unwritten cost to every budget, which no state knows. Everything we have to do and think about it, we just need a state that knows what it wants and not change strategically national to growth, taxation and to what we want to do and where we want to get. I didn't get the topic of tourism and the rest. What about the cruise ships with the closed ports, the strikes that had taken place before, and you see the cruise, five thousand people sitting in and unable to get out at the port? Or what can I say about those who do black transport and who are being chased by those who do green transport? The lawmakers are after the illegals who take the tourists' transfer. Let them not close the archaeological sites. At some point, the tourist comes to leave the triumphant or double it - not the 0.5 euros we give - in an archaeological site. Let us have them open, because the complaint, the negative view - as we used to say in the administration of businesses and marketing - is multiplied by 10, while the positive attitude has a smaller multiplier. Negative's bigger. Thank you very much and good luck in the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. We shall give Mr Mavrotas the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the River. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr Colleague, and you too, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u108	I won't need more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u109	As much as you need, at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm always happy when I talk to a confiscated room. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So let's start with a determination. According to the World Economic Forum Competitiveness Report, Greece ranks in the eighty-seventh place, between thirty-seven countries in attracting investment. Chronic problems, such as overtaxation, delay in the administration of justice, the almost necessary involvement of domestic businesses, who have the knows how to overcome the rich bureaucratic obstacles, are some of the problems that have been mentioned many times. With SYRIZA a further difficulty has been added to the government: its intolerance to private initiative and entrepreneurship, mainly from an ideological point of view. This is diffuse in the word of the Ministers whether Mr Paulakis is either Mr Gavroglou or Mr Spirtzis. In the left world the private investor is considered, by definition, a fraud, as on the other hand, a civil servant from some is considered lazy. With these stereotypes, however, we're not going anywhere. The job of the state is to create the institutional framework and apply it to everyone in the same way, without "ours" and "yours" businesspeople. What should we do? Firstly, a horizontal restriction of bureaucracy in the government, the public, the service of the citizen, justice, until the establishment of the operation. Armoring political stability through a more effective electoral law, as well as the revision of the constitution. Thirdly, clear distinction of powers and firm fight against corruption in all areas. Fourthly, the adoption and utilization of technologies by the public administration. Fifthly, continuing training programmes for private and public workers to enhance technological readiness. Sixth and last, perhaps more important, linking education to production and business in the fields of research, development and innovation. So these are the things that need structural reforms, this long-standing concept and word. But voting laws is one part. The other is to apply them. If the government does not want to apply what it votes for, it can find a thousand ways. To be honest, many times, it is such a framework that even if the government wants to implement them, there are horizontal resistances to establishments and interests. And near the intramuscular denial comes the inability to apply. Without a plan, no timelines and a road map, all stay conveniently. And perhaps this is one of the reasons why the services are not managed by sufficient, but by our'self' people. Because the government knows that this is certainly not going to make any mistakes. Koumados often do the post-consumer counsellors and not the administrative machine, as they should, often leading to a mess and to important inconsistencies in the functioning of the state. That's why the time elapsed between drawings on paper and the bulldozer on earth is becoming huge. Apart from how, another question is where we need to weigh. At times, the sectors, which are a comparative advantage for our country, have been presented. For example, tourism, shipping, agrifood, energy, medicine, supply chain, etc. Greece, however, cannot be developed by services alone. In other words, we cannot go to an investment model for a monoculture. The differentiated investment portfolio for our country is necessary. Apart from the tertiary sector, it also needs the primary and secondary. We need investment in internationally marketed sectors that take advantage of our comparative advantages. We need the startups and the university spins and offs, and we also need the appropriate framework for them there, but we also need the industry's flagships, which we already have, and many of them, are pioneers internationally and highly extroverts with significant exports, but unfortunately many are ignoring this. The main thing, however, is that innovative thinking needs to be developed, business culture at all levels, because the state can be a good employer, but it is not a good businessman. However, the most important area we will have to invest is human capital. And here to open a parentheses. The words "innovation" and "human capital" were remembered by the Prime Minister a few days ago, speaking in the context of the EquiFund event, "The vision of Greece for Innovation". Welcome to his new stand, but he's late. After more than three years, he must go to action, because when you call on investors and entrepreneurs to take the risk, he must have convinced them that there is an appropriate climate, away from idealism and, above all, to convince them that you are credible as government and as a country. Human capital, however, is exported to disproportionately large numbers abroad. Why? It is precisely because there is no link between universities and production. There is no link between research and innovation and entrepreneurship. So once someone has finished university, she finds the doors closed in our country, and the doors open to him before he's even finished. So we pay taxes to train good doctors, good engineers, good scientists, who will, however, exploit other societies. So we need investment in human capital that can catch a place. And it is no coincidence that countries, similar to us in crisis, have invested in education to emerge from the crisis, such as Finland, Denmark, Israel and many others. This is all we should have discussed in the new development plan presented by the government to the institutions. The debate should have taken place here first and not directly with the institutions. A national development plan would be much more reliable than a government development plan. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In conclusion, there is a lot to be done to improve the investment climate in our country. Investments, through a sustainable growth model, are oxygen for our economy. Without investments, we won't have production, without production, we won't have jobs, without jobs, we won't have pensions. So patriotic today it is to seek to develop our country. Development without production cannot be done. Production without investments cannot be done. We need an investment of 100 billion over the next five years, as some economists say. Investments are the key to getting out of the crisis cage. New ideas are pulling them. Old ideas are kicking them out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u111	Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I could tell you by name. I could not say 'dear fellow Members', but I would say, Mr Loverdos, Mr Constantinople, Mr Mavrota, thank you for listening to me and, of course, thank you, Mr Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Community of Centres, we naturally agree with the text of the topical and urgent question tabled by colleagues of the Democratic Alliance. Of course, we must also remind them that, at the point of deinvestment, which our country has now reached, they have put their hands on themselves - that is, their party, not you, ladies and gentlemen - and the New Democracy party - because we need to talk about everything here - with the rumours that have been done all these years. Of course, right now, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has come to prove your best student. It is clear to the Government that the investments are at the forefront of it, as it seems to be hostile to any innovation in every business proposal. Society is falling apart, jobs are not for young people, who are unfortunately experiencing or - I would say better - survive in a landscape of professional desperation - most, as has been said before, fleeing abroad - retired people are surviving with crumbs, while we should go to government spending and strengthen investment initiatives so that this state can finally become operational and red tape limited. No relationship, that is, with what has been happening in Greece in recent years. I am not referring to the last three years, which you have been in the government, but to the last decades and to the movements of all previous governments. For example, while in a blunt way governmental factors are conveying us over-estimating messages that, allegedly, foreign investors are signalling - which at the whole time are in communication, negotiating and in contact with them - at the same time, private initiatives are being withdrawn, at the same time, from their knowledge. The previous Minister for Investment has glazed through his absence, through every investment effort and, unfortunately, at the moment I will say 'you have given up night'. The Prime Minister talks about 'the opportunity'. In fact, in Kastelorizo, recently, two, three days ago, he said we'd have a clean exit from the memoranda. Let's get something straight. The contract ends, the money ends, the loan, the measures and the Memorandum Responsibilities are here and more will come. However, the examples of 'the opportunity' testify to the contrary, as the 'enterprise' has been criminalised, condemning our country for not particularly attractive investment for foreign investors, compared, of course, with other Mediterranean countries, which, although experienced the consequences of the economic crisis, managed to attract foreign direct investment. Recent studies show that the fall in foreign direct investment in Greece during the crisis has reached 44% in the medium term and in order to balance the enormous disinvestment that our country has experienced, due to the economic crisis, will require an investment of EUR 110 billion over the next five years, which the government seems not to understand, following a completely opposite course. And I bring as an example the Greek, who has been so dormant in the last few years. A master came and decided that the landing track is a forest, a jungle, as they had mentioned, blocking this gigantic development effort, which would also bring down unemployment, with more than seventy thousand jobs. Unfortunately, the only investment we know to be the work of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is those of some Chinese, Russian or Turkish who are asking for EUR 250,000 of Golden Visa, namely the citizenship scheme. Apart from this, there is a leak from the inside, as more and more entrepreneurs are leaving Greece, due to overtaxation, not only to profits, but also to fuel and to the end and so on. In addition, it is often noted for competent ministers that they may even lie. In a reply from the Ministry, to a relevant honourable Member, about foreign direct investment, the protocol number 69966 of 23 June 2017, it says that a Greek-American scheme - and I do not want to mention the partnership - bought 75% of the National Insurance against 718 million euros. I should like to inform you that we did not collect a single euro, because this allegedly sure investment, which the government even assured us in writing, ended up in a shipwreck. Your silence, and in the case of El Dorado, it turned out that it was not gold. It is another case of governmental uncertainty and lack of information for local society, with strong controversy between investors and citizens. These actions cannot be described as a lack of political will to promote investment, but as ideological struggling for the economy and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Consider that even for the country's foreign projection you create obstacles. I am referring to the recent initial refusal of the CSCE to grant permission to film the "BBC" and the internationally-famous director Park Chan-Wook for Sounio and his final positive opinion after the outcry throughout the country. Please, Minister, we really would like you to clarify in your position if you finally decide to start making use of the investment proposals, or you will continue the tactic so far to remain in the drawer, as you blamed the previous ones. We don't want to get to the point where we're saying you're putting a tombstone on investments. But, in your actions, that is what you show. And I'm not talking about you personally, but about your government. I don't want it to be understood that I'm making a personal attack on you. In conclusion, I would like to stress that investments, which lead to growth, presuppose the existence of a smart state, which provides incentives and creates a stable institutional environment, so that the investor can come and make predictions. Because the stable environment is in direct relation to economic growth. For example, I would mention some initiatives that could be attractive: A commitment not to change the tax system for at least ten years, so that the businessman can make his predictions, make the economic study, the so-called 'forecast', and be able to come to invest and stay in Greece, tax incentives for takeovers and mergers, incentives for depreciation for investment in research and development and a reduction in corporate taxes. And I'm talking about legal persons. Finally, another important point, which involves attracting investment and contributing to the above stable environment, is political stability. Political stability can come only through national understanding and cooperation and not through your own hundred and fifty - three. It is the one that will ensure stability in the economy. I would suggest that you leave egos and love for the chair and invite all the political leaders to create a national rescue plan for the country and exit, not only from the memoranda, but also from the economic crisis. Only in this way will investors trust us, that is the only way our economy will recover, will our unemployment be reduced: when political costs are shared by moves and by reforms that must be made. That is what we have been saying for years as the Centroon Association. These are my points today too. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, let me interrupt for two minutes, for a specific reason, and we will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the meeting. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u115	Minister, I listened carefully. You consumed 50% of your time for the Greek and the rest for an effort you made to show the next day in the country. The next day in the country wants national understanding. That's for granted. But he wanted national understanding yesterday and the day before yesterday. National consultation, under what rules, though? What are the conclusions we draw, namely, leaving this debate today? For example, for the NSRF, we put two issues to blame for the delays. We didn't hear you tell us anything. I will give you another example: for the extrajudicial compromise, for the red loans we have made another proposal and this concerns the bad bank, the bad bank. We didn't hear anything. We are not here to talk, to see who we are or whether we are - the favorite and dear theme of the media - closer to the New Democracy or SYRIZA. We are with our proposals. Do you have an answer to these proposals? We haven't got an answer. On the contrary, for the Greek, for example, there is a conclusion. And the conclusion is - that is where we respond with the "Greek Plan" - that with the great projects, like the Greek one, we must move on and go to projects of the type of Olympic Games. I will take the good view that this reaction was not agreed, that the General Secretariat of the CSCE, which you appointed, created a problem, which you said, and Mr Drasakis said it had to end today. We have a proposal in the 'Greek Plan' that these large investments must be brought here and they must be quickly completed. Let me give you an example, which deals with 'Golden Visa', for which we are waiting to do this committee. In the Loutras of Good Helen in Corinth there is a large investment of 150 million, mainly on such issues and five and a half years now. You know her. It's next to Mr. Nikos Pappa's area. He hasn't moved on. Why hasn't he moved on? Do we, through this process, draw conclusions or even these committees, so that we can simply "attack" each other? We are not here on this matter. About the waste in the Peloponnese, the mayors had reacted, but also the SYRIZA MPs, you know what they were saying! If you want, I'll give you what they said. They said in Arcadia, at the joint press conference, that if we sign the contract, we won't find a hole in hiding. Do you want me to give it to you? You know it very well, and I understand it. But does a conclusion actually come about? I would also like to say to you - and I will end with this - that you seem to me to be unrepentant about lies. Look, lying is well known, the Prime Minister has said so. So sometimes I was thinking about this: are you lying about it because of family responsibility? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I can't believe it, and it's not true. Are you professionals on the lie? I really do say 'no, there is not that' because you find it in front of you. But there is one issue. Finally, you're lying because of incompetence. And I will tell you, Minister, two examples that are correct. Your Member submits - and you have given this to him, but we have to be a little serious - that in Greece, until now, they have - he says, twelve contracts of total value of 633 million are signed. Your Member has tabled this. And he says SYRIZA did it. I read to you: ‘Seven fire stations, signature, partnership, April 2009, 25 million. Fourteen school infrastructure units in Attica, April 2014, 58 million. Ten school infrastructure in Attica, May 2014, 52 million. Television in urban transport, June 2014, 19.4 million. An online ticket to urban transport, December 2014, broadband network 2014, 68 million. Broadband II, 2014, 100 million. Broadband III, 2014, 96 million. Now let's go to the nicest you've ever written. You haven't put on the Peloponnese, though. You've forgotten about the Peloponnese.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u116	It hasn't been signed yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u117	You've forgotten that. Management - says - waste from western Macedonia. Minister, write here that you signed it in 2015, but that it was all ready. This is where the honourable Member doesn't even read the list. The rest was a follow-up and you did well to sign them, but the 550 million out of 633 have been signed by another government. Go out and say it's not yours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second issue - and I'm ending with it - is the one with the lie. You find everything in front of you. There is a video available, Minister - just now - for the FREMM wells. And I want to tell you something. I hear your far-right partner makes meetings with Mr. Failos Kranidiotis and Mrs. Papacosta. They're the ones you've already got in the coup d'état. Caramanlic wing, you already have it inside. Let's go to 'them' now. What were you saying in 2013? What did Mr. Tsipras himself say in Thessaloniki? They asked him about the FREMM wells, that it sounds like the government will do that. And he replied - I have now heard the text, Mr Minister - that ‘FREMM wells are inappropriate. At a time of crisis it is unacceptable to give money to our partners and, on the one hand, to take them away from them and, on the other, to give it to them. But even more is inappropriate for the country because the FREMM wells are for open seas and not for closed seas." And now she wonders - you will allow me this, why can't we go on like this - Mrs. Theano Fotio: 'We're sick?' There's a political issue of incapacity called a lie. Because of incapacity, you're lying. And there can be no national understanding when you cannot see which PPPs have been signed and you can give them up and I challenge you to give them. It can't be done, Minister. And I want to talk to you personally, because I will blame you. Look, they're not all the same at the parties. Each man has his own different approach, the different way he conducts, his different policy and, to God, they cannot all be the same. No way. Minister, you have made a great effort for many things, and I recognize it. But you - which the government is sending you today - must recognise, in order for there to be a national agreement on three, four major issues, the specific questions, or we must indicate them and say that yes, this PPP has been done on this government - and it has been done - and it should have been done earlier, we should be able to admit to the world that yes, these mistakes have been made. But we too need to recognise why it was not the right thing to do. Of course, many mistakes have been made in previous periods. And you are right that many in Greek went and said about other issues. That's the truth. I'm the one talking about it. Many talked about the Greek and mistakes were made. But in the three-year process a government must say that it can complete an investment in four years. You are a Memorandum of Understanding - which is one of the good things, in my view - which is four years old. There is no other Memorandum Government. More than four years, you're going than you're saying. In any case, you decide. For example, there is an issue that we can decide that it should not continue. We are also proposing it in the constitutional review. So, in order to reach national agreement, Minister, and indeed with a man like you, we must leave today - we have made ten proposals for you - to accept whether or not our proposals are wrong, what we need to implement for the national objective, for the country or not. If you don't, Minister, you'll be wrong yourself. Because we didn't come here to tell you only negative. We're here to make suggestions. We are neither New Democracy nor any other party. We come with ten specific proposals on ten specific issues. I expect you to say whether it is right or not, which you will adopt and which you will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Dimitriadis, you know you don't have a second. Only for one minute will you take the floor out of the Rules of Procedure, but please keep it one minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I want to make a clarification. In my position I referred to a number of cases that have been dealt with by the Greek Parliament, concerning contracts signed by the previous governments and which we have either accepted or changed or made them more positive. And on the basis of this introduction, I continued to speak and analyse the Greek, PPC and a series of investments, including the PPPs, which I said very simply that twelve have been completed and three have been voted on. And I testified the painting. I do not understand the criticism of my colleague of misconduct, infidelity, disorientation, etc. I was clear and clear. I guess he wasn't watching me. Nor have I ever claimed, throughout my entire position, which was for more than ten minutes, that we did all this and it is not connected to the past. That's exactly the opposite. I was clear and specific. We changed towards the most positive old agreements, because we could and did so in the interests of the public interest and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The debate is closed with the denology of the Minister. Minister, you have ten minutes, but you can extend your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u123	I'm always short. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your comments and speeches. I, Mr Constantinople, find too much interest in the debate. The opposition is right to point out the negative ones and is bending them. However, the picture described by you is not the real picture that the country is currently experiencing. I'm not just staying in numbers. I'm going to tell you that now at regional conferences, you've gone a little bit...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u124	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u125	But these involve many of your members and members of the New Democracy and all parties, societal factors. The image is different. I watched and took part in a lot of them. I am in constant contact with all the productive actors and must tell you that a climate of moderate optimism is gradually being shaped for change in the country's course. People live it every day and we cannot go against this common feeling. Obviously, there are very big problems. Mr. Loverdos asked how long we're going to stay. We're gonna run out for the four years. It's simple! Secondly, he said that anyone who deals with us will also be in charge of our responsibilities. We, for our part, want to deal with all, particularly those who believe we have a historical affinity. There may not be today, but historically there are two currents which are in a dialogue for many years, from different positions. We will proceed with the constitutional review, and we have promised it. Not only because we promised, but I think we all agree there is a need. As our joint professor, the infamous Menesis, said, "the constitutional review is only a matter of correlation of power, because the Constitution reflects the socio-political correlations of every period". We shall therefore seek the revision of the Constitution and seek to have a connection - we call it - in a progressive direction to the Constitution. Obviously, there are conservative and progressive constitutions. Obviously, there are successful and unsuccessful revisions. We will seek a review that meets the needs of the historic period that the country is experiencing and will also pursue the widest possible alliances to achieve this review. And everyone will, of course, make their decisions, make their choices and be judged. I was invited here today to respond to the question of investment and with a peak of two large investments. That was included in the question. I must say that I have come a little late - I have recognized the responsibility - but I have remained thoroughly in these two investments, because the analysis of their course shows all the vulnerabilities of the investment problem. The figures are very specific. Unfortunately, Mr. Kefaliannis had to leave. First of all, for foreign direct investment and their course - I said it before, Mr Loverdos and again - after 2005 our best time is in 2017. And 2017 is very close to 2005 as a percentage of GDP. And that's very important. On the subject that Mr. Kefaliannis mentioned about the Formation of Gross Ice capital, I must tell you that from 2007 to 2015 the curve is not just downward, but has a vertical fall. And the reversal starts from 2015. That's the official evidence. I'm filing both of them. [[At this point, Deputy Minister Asterios Pitsirlas submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Department of Stenography and Practices.]] Apparently, we're low. Obviously, we have to go up. I described a reality. 2010 was the worst year for foreign direct investment and in 2010 SYRIZA was obviously not ruling. You have raised an issue - which I do not want to circumvent - about the development law with intensity and you have rightly raised it. So I'll tell you what we've received. We've received a mess with the development law. There were six thousand unfinished business projects, which were integrated into the development laws of previous years, without the possibility of financing them. We also received a service, which, based on the European Commission's crisis, could no longer manage European funds. We have received the issues of the development law with an appeal order to investigate all the investment plans of the two previous development laws. We have received a service which, if you read the report of the public administration auditors on this service, will "take their hair". It is a service that had a hundred and eighty auditors and seventy - five evaluators. There was a huge effort to be made by the then Minister of State, Mr Stathakis, so that this secretariat and this agency could manage European funds. And there also had to be an information system of demonstrable, yes, difficult, yes, but compulsory to manage European funds. And a huge effort had to be made to establish a register of assessors and auditors. Today, of the eighty-eighty auditors, we are at three hundred ninety and seventy-five, today we are in the two hundred thirty. A record had to be made, trained to be able to do their job. If anyone asks of any entrepreneur who attempted to enter or enter the development law and asks him for a crisis in the procedures, in the services, in the way he was doing all right, in the evaluations, he will see that there is a huge problem. So we're trying to get a class. We're trying to improve the development law. We made a major change in what kind of projects are subsidized by development law. Are there delays? There are. But we are at a point where it will start to run now. In 2017, some 800,000,000 were paid for the previous years. So, first of all, we had to put a class in a chaos, and secondly, the possibility of the Ministry's services - which are still too low - should be able to run this story. Moreover, the problem with the absorption of the NRP is that projects must be able to and implemented by the services and the public and, above all, by self-government. The regional conferences also raised a huge issue of the lack of administrative services in the regions and municipalities to implement these projects. So, first of all, to see the complexity of the problems, to recognise pathogens, to recognise the problems and to see that an effort is being made that may have been delayed, but is in the right direction. I do not accept the accusation that there is hostility to investment due to ideas. Evidently some also have ideas, but the greatest idea, which persecutes the Greek public and investment in Greece, is the ideology, which says that the country's political authority can solve problems by order and circumvent laws, procedures and everything. This is on the basis of all the inefficiency of the public for investments, this is on the basis of unreliability, which is on the basis of inefficiency. Because when Prime Ministers and Ministers promise foreign investors 'Come here and I will deal with them', this is the biggest crime. That's on the basis of our problems. I will not give examples, although I can say a lot. That is why I referred to the Greek with a great deal of analysis and ELDORADO. Can we see the story of "ELDORADO" how it started and how many stages it passed? We had to go to arbitration to make a decision to say "here is where the metallurgy is going". I mentioned many aspects to you in Greek. One referred to the major road projects, the evaluation carried out. I think that we will find consensus if we agree on the roots of the problems if we do not want to put to a three-year government all the troubles in society and the country, when it is clear from all the indicators that in 2009-2010 we have reached the bottom everywhere. We must come up from there and come up with a method, with a programme and, of course, with a consensus. However, the consensus must be made on a practical and serious basis. I mention, for example, the waterplanes. When I went to the TIAD, I was visited by the businesspeople who are interested. The first thing they said to me was that 'the governments have been making fun of us for ten years'. Because Greece has always been an island country, it is nothing new, it should have waterplanes decades ago. He never had one. It's no accident. Nothing's random. What can't be done, for some reason, can't be done. As it is no coincidence that there were no connections between the islands and the central electrical system of the country and they went by saying. Nothing's random. But all this has never happened and must be done now. The demands are great and the government is rightly pressed to move faster. But things are moving on. I have described an image, which is true and which I have given details of both tourism and building activity, both for industrial production and everywhere. If you see the acquisitions of Greek companies, which have been made by foreigners in the last two years, it is a very important element. How did the need for takeovers arise? Is problematic business a new phenomenon? Is bankrupt enterprises a new phenomenon? Is bankrupt enterprises and wealthy entrepreneurs a new phenomenon? None of this is new. All this needs to be solved. I therefore claim, and I say with evidence, that a process has begun to solve them. In a year and a half, which remains until the elections, I believe that too much of this will be much clearer than it is today. Finally, I want to make a special reference again to PPP and waste. I believe in PPPs and tell you that a large PPP project programme is already on the stools. However, the reaction and objection to the PPP method, this tool, is intergrouping on its basis. In local government, if you discuss with all its agents, you will see that the first reaction is negative. Luminous exceptions are those of the self-government factors that support this tool. I believe that, with the implementation of the projects, the example of Epirus now - slowly, a new consciousness will be formed and the use of this tool will be extended. As in other areas, our experiences help us. The representative of the Centro Association is leaving, but he referred to a recent issue on Sounio and CAS. We are now reforming it immediately - the framework for film production in Greece. And that is not a new issue. Here, too, we have found a regime that is unacceptable and we change it. Already half has changed, under the law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, and its completion is now due to be completed by the Ministry of Culture. The framework must be changed so that there is no such thing as the interventions made by the CSCE or by anyone else. And to close with a report: You keep talking about lies. And because we are very familiar with Mr. Loverdos, we were students at the university - I would like to say with one intimacy that we, as the left, have also spent years of our lives accusing PASOK of lying. It has been many years since we understood that telling PASOK that it has not complied with its commitments to take the country out of the EEC, from NATO, out of the bases and all of this, has not done anything at all, because governments are judged by the work they do and when a government is adapting one way or another in a positive direction, that is positive. It was positive to adapt PASOK earlier, it is positive from the anti-European PASOK to pro-European ones, and it is positive and to adapt SYRIZA. Of course, adaptation does not mean denial of principles and ideological traditions. But it is wrong to judge the Left by individual persons, because in the tradition of the Left, which we represent, there is also the most prosperous conception. Only the Left has a victim in this country because he wrote a book about the great industry, about the heavy industry in Greece. It has flowed too much water since then in the groove, but of course, I think that the current government is on a very productive path and that should be exploited to the good of the country by all. Of course, and the government has a responsibility to listen - and I think you will see samples of writing - to remarks and criticisms. I have actually heard many ideas, except that some ideas are useful, but some things, which are self-evident, cannot appear as intelligent proposals: a reduction in rates of taxation. Of course, I wish! Who would've been the one to say no? Reduction of insurance contributions. I wish it could be done! But we're in a phase of tough negotiation. We will be pressing - and the pressure methods are many - to have a memorial regime that gives room for supervision. We're trying to deal with it and we're dealing with it. I believe that at the end of this negotiation, then again, the current government must be judged. But as long as the negotiations lasts, it is not good for us to create a picture worse for the country than it really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I have been asked a question for a second and I have said no, but because there have been one or two references I would like to take the floor. I won't talk much. I have been prosecuting, and now I am going to secondary myself in the exact same way, in the style, which Mr Pittsirla has spoken against, because for the past decade, acquaintance and admission creates preconditions for dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for three to four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u129	About development. It is not advice, it is an opinion and it is something I have followed: in any ministry I took on board, I did not deal with what the previous ones did to come to the House and say that I found the a and the b and everything was a mess and from me the light came. This is not right, when the development law you deposited has the same bureaucratic weaknesses as the previous ones and more of them. It is proof of what Mr Constantinople said about the non-completion of the procedures after so long. The development law, which must have been your guide, if you had as a government consciousness, is that of 1953, a page and a half. And from this country has, of course, been driven - in those circumstances - into a development explosion. We now have hundreds of pages that favour the gray zone of Greek bureaucracy. So instead of saying what you found, let's see what you're going to give. Because with this recipe and the next one, who will go to your place, he will blame you for having received problems with administrative, legislative and so on. The country will lose eight months, until he knows the same thing and then again. Secondly, as far as 2015 is concerned, do not invoke it, because you have been taking over since February. A 2014 government led things there. If you're talking about 2017, I'm listening to the arguments. In 2015, let it go. It is the work of the previous ones from which you have received, with the developments that we all remember for that year. Thirdly, as far as the Constitution is concerned, I was clear in my position. Manesh was right indeed. Change of the constitution or the introduction of a new constitution is a matter of correlation of powers and this is reflected in the relevant article of the Constitution that requires 151, 180, thus correlations. That's right. Also, with regard to the second one, which you said there are revisions that have been achieved - criterion or act - and those that have not succeeded and even full constitutions, right both. What's wrong, as I pointed out in my speech? To baptize the common rule of democracy - which applies to all parties and which are called upon to vote in terms of unity, not minority - socialist, capitalist, liberal, progressive and so on. It's our common rule. Therefore, there are very dangerous and suspected political descriptions, the last ones to accompany the review and that your colleagues have abused at the time when this debate took place. As far as the issues relating to the parties' cooperation are concerned, I think I was clear, but also the conference we have recently held, was very clear in this regard. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Minister has the floor to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, no one can fortify behind what they receive. He's judged by what he's doing. But here we have a special case, a peculiarity. The country has been in such a major crisis for the first time. So we need to see what led us there. We need to see all the curves. We need to see that on all matters we have had a downward trend until some time. We have the period of crisis and a period when it starts and goes up again and we will have to identify the causes that led us there to change them. Only in this sense have I referred to the previous ones. Because for the development laws it is the wholehearted and how these laws are managed. Boa! Whoever you talk to will tell him specific things. It's no accident what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u132	Is the pan-Hellenic celebrating now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u133	No, no. That's what I'm trying to tell you, that we must fundamentally reorganise a whole operation. If we don't, you'll blame us for that. We must do this because otherwise we will not be able to do anything. We will also deliver six thousand unfinished works or more. It's very easy to incorporate projects into a development law and share all rights, no matter how you decide and in whatever way you do. Putting it into practice is the hard thing. So I am telling you, that is, six thousand projects from previous developmentists, given that there were no budgets to fund and implement these projects, is a huge problem. It's a pathogen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u134	Do you know which Minister made the developer with most of the six thousand projects you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u135	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Luca Katseli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u137	I don't know who made it, I say that there is a problem and we have to solve it if we want to be honest with the world and if we want to have projects. It is eight hundred million costs for projects of previous periods, previous development laws. Now, on political issues, I do not think it is the right time to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u138	Minister, let's leave this for later. Is the debate adjourned on No 1/1/15-10-2017 a topical question on the subject: 'The government is persecuting large investment from the country: inability or ideological obsessions'? Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-20-S1-commons.u139	With the consent of the House at 14.50 minutes the sitting for the next Monday, 23 April 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
