ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-5-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions, of Wednesday, 16 May 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania to accelerate the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’. Can the Secretary-General announce the references to this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the debate on the sixth, with No. 1614/7-5-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Urgent need for promotion measures for the recognition of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou". The question by Mr Carras will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I have doubts as to whether or not to ask this question. I have heard complaints from friends Pontius that in recent years they have not felt the affection of the Greek state in promoting the international recognition of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Potto. Because it is known that the Greek state has recognized it since 1994, they are celebrated every year, but they feel a deficit. I am not a Pontius in origin, but I understand what they are asking for, and indeed whether or not my question has been weighed on the issue of change now and Turkey's policy. As you know, Mr President, and the Minister knows, the request is that Turkey finally recognise this genocide, in the sense of calling for the apologies to the Pontius and the Greeks for what they have committed over time. Of course, that is not the case, at least under the present conditions of Turkish policy. I conclude, therefore, that we must step up efforts to make the international recognition of Genocide by the international organisations and also by other states, because, as we all know, a small number of states have recognised it and a small number of states of the United States and the Russian Federation. It seems, therefore, that we have a stir up of this effort to identify. What I am seeking, therefore, with the timely question I have put, is to intensify the effort so that at the end of the day Turkey can also ask for the apologies that we are all waiting for. Why am I saying that now? Because I could justify an interim period when Turkey was now supposed to proceed with accession procedures with the European Union, which was put forward as a prerequisite. Today, however, these conditions are being removed. We see a tension differently in our region. I would ask the Minister to explain what action is being taken by the Ministry to promote the request.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the question. You know that in two days' time, ninety years since 19 May 1919, and yesterday the House honoured the victims of the Pontius Genocide at a special meeting. In other words, ninety years have passed since the plan was put in place for the final extermination of the Greeks throughout Podo, in an endless course of death. Mr. MEP, Greece was the first country to recognize the genocide of the Greeks of Pontou and Asia Minor, with the resolutions and the laws of 2193/1994 and 2645/1998. Of course, 19 May and 14 September have been established as days of memory for the Genocide of the Greeks of the Sea, as well as the Hellenism of Asia Minor. And, of course, it was the minimum price and the minimum respect due to the victims of these appalling events. These days of memory are, as I believe, truly honoured by a large number of Pontian and Asia Minor associations and organizations, and by the Greek Parliament and the Government, of course, as well as by a large number of homogenous associations abroad. Pontius genocide is an acceptable international historical event. Recognised by Cyprus on 19 May 1994, Sweden in 2010, Armenia in 2015, along with Assyrian Genocide, in Ireland in 2015, along with Armenian and Assyrian Genocide, but also in many states of the USA and Australia and in Canada. I would like to remind you in particular that there was a resolution, because these are the actions of the state and of the time, adopted by the Research Academy of the International Academy of Sciences for the Genocide Study, which recognizes the genocide of Armenians, Assyrians and Greeks, Pontians, Thraces and Iones in 2007, and with a vast majority of 83% of the votes. The Pontius Genocide is projected to a diplomatic and political level appropriately by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance because I think it is an important and timely fact. Conservation of historical memory has been and will continue to be a primary task of the Greek state. With this in mind, we have to be a prostitute in the effort to promote and broaden the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of Pontou and Asia Minor within the international community. I would like to mention actions of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, which supports the Days of Memory that are taking place around the world, as well as the initiatives of the World Coordinating Committee of Pontian Youth under the slogan “We Remember” and activities aimed at raising awareness of the international community and supported by the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic. There are initiatives taken by local government representatives in Europe as well as the Pontian federations outside to promote recognition of the request. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] A characteristic example is the series of contacts with local governments, but also with representatives of the Federal Government in Germany, launched by UEPE, the Federation of Associations of Greek Poles in Europe. Support from the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic has also been provided for international scientific conferences organised by Pontian federal organizations, such as the International Conference on the theme "1916-1923" on 25 and 26 February 2016 in co-organization with the Institute for the Dissemination of the Genocide Institute of Bohum and the Federation of Associations of Greek Pontian Europe. Here I would add the announcement of a museum at the Camp "Pavlou Mela" in Thessaloniki dedicated to the Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism in the area that was given there, as well as the support of the teaching of the Pontian language by Pontian teachers and the Association of Educational Ponties, especially in Thessaloniki. They are programmes which have received support from the Greek Government. In my dentistry, I will mention other elements which I think show that the Greek state over time and particularly our government is sensitive to this point and to this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you again, Mr President. I have to say that I feel that what the Minister said is not enough in my reply, because if we distinguish in his position a large part was about the homosexuality, which no one disputes that the Greek community is doing its duty, and indeed with a commitment to Greece's national and broader policy and also to actions by the Pontian unions within Greece. What is the subject for which I - and I am extremely concerned, Mr President - ask for the intensity of the Greek Government's actions is that we move on to international recognition, since it seems that time is appropriate, in view of the policy pursued by the neighbouring country in recent years. And since the only way to exert pressure is to recognise by international organisations and in addition to more states, it is now a one-way road that the Greek Government should follow this tactic and policy. What I would like to note, however, is this: it was mentioned - and rightly so - by the Minister that yesterday we celebrated in Parliament on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greek Genocide of the Pontos. I have to make a comment, Minister. The government's spokesman, Pontius at the origin, as he stated, was, unfortunately, only present. As a Pontius, he has asked for international recognition, but he has not answered what steps the government is taking to reach this issue. While it is a universal request, it seems. And I want to say something else. We are all asking for the international community to be condemned when there are human disasters, for example in the Palestinian country the other day. The attack on Palestine from Israel. The government-friendly newspaper “AGE” is coming out yesterday and calls on the international community to support, condemn the brutality of the Israelis. So why don't we, as Greeks and first governments, do this, because I still have not heard the answers I have been expecting - why not, by means of friendly states, condemn the barbarism that existed so that the international community can, Minister, perceive beyond economic or geopolitical interests, see that the country of neighbors is not a rule of law? And why am I saying that? Because genocide is an irresponsible crime involving humanity, it is not only about the victims or the offspring of the victims. So I think that the only way to pressure is through international organisations. It is not enough, of course, for the academy you mentioned, which recognized genocide. I think - if I'm not mistaken - Minister, it's a scientific association. I don't know exactly if he has an international status. I'll wait for you to tell me in your answer. I therefore think that the government should strengthen this universal demand not to be confined to generalities, such as those which I heard yesterday by the government's representative, without being specifically placed. In addition, to close, I have to say: in this case, the homogeneity, as I said at the beginning of my dentistry, is doing its duty. But are the means and tools which we provide for, or do we need tension there too? The time I have chosen to ask the question was not only because 19 May is approaching as a day of memory and honour. I have chosen to ask the question - and I mention it, Minister, and in its text, as you will have seen - about the change and attitude of Europe. Europe must also change its attitude. The European Union must also stand up to the neighbour because, although I do not want to become a dissident of evil at this time or to pursue foreign policy with words, I fear that, if this opportunity is passed, international recognition will be permanently lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Karras for his debauchery. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor to close with his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u9	Parliamentarians, what I mentioned in my prototype that we are properly projecting the Pontius Genocide from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at political and diplomatic level, has nothing to do with what policy is currently being pursued by Turkey, or with Turkey's attitudes, or whether it is approaching or close to the European Union, or whether it is far or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u10	I'm referring to... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u11	It may be, but that does not affect our policy. It is our policy that I have told you that, in an appropriate way, by diplomatic means and at political level, we are projecting and supporting these actions. I referred to the homogeneity and the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic. It is also the second question you have asked, and I think I have answered you. Our country, in close cooperation with countries that have been and have been victims of genocide in the past, such as Israel and Armenia, systematically cultivate the debate on the need to preserve the historical truth about these events and take the lead in the United Nations' efforts to implement the 1948 Genocide Prevention and Repression Convention. It is our duty, as we feel it - and I say it because in this context we are moving over time towards the definition of our policy - to preserve the historical truth, to maintain the historical memory and not to stop the struggle for universal recognition by the international community of systematic extermination and the violent uprooting of the Greeks of Pontus and Ionia from 1914 to 1923, in order not to be repeated. Mr Pinheiro, allow me to give two, three thoughts, which I think are worthy of, because yesterday there was a racist speech in this Chamber and I would like to give an appreciation. The history of Hellenism, as you know, is a primary story of survival, distinction, offer and responsibility. At the same time, however, also boldness and national unity towards the dangers and challenges. In this difficult task of ending the non-acceptance of historical truth by the neighbouring country, which should undoubtedly be consistent with forgiveness, the same societies can help in direct fertile and constructive dialogue, so that an honest approach can rule out such situations and actions anywhere in the world. This dialogue together with the recognition and elimination of the mouse genocide taboos I believe will help to bring about a new era dawn. We need more than ever to the victims of genocide, to our relatives, but also to modern ones, to preserve this historic fact and to create those conditions which will lead to the justice, peaceful coexistence and cooperation of peoples. The historical memory, which we are trying with all our powers to stay alive, is not only to remind us, but also to guide us. Not to cultivate intolerance, xenophobia and any form of racism. We want the historical memory to keep the bond, our voice, to put marks on our way, not to lose ourselves in this endless odyssey of our course. As Professor Phyiadis said, memory is power, it is the only healthy thing that keeps us strong on earth. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The generations that come will feel safe, I believe not only when genocide stops, but when the causes are no longer there: respect for international law, safeguarding human rights for all citizens of every state without racial, ethnic, cultural or religious discrimination are those who can prevent conflicts and conflicts leading to ethnic cleansing and genocide. Mr President, I think there is another positive development in the mouse. Last year I wished the House: "In the hundred years of the Pontius Genocide, that is, next year, all Pontius, to do joint events. The power of the Pontians is our unity." This year, for the first time, I was informed that one year before the completion of the hundreds of years from Genocide, the organized Pontian space, i.e. the Pambodian Federation of Greece, the WTO, the Panhellenic Federation of Pontian Associations, the PDO and the Panhellenic Federation of Greek Palinotes from the former Soviet Union, POSPA, together with numerous unions and foundations, will be found for the first time in Thessaloniki and Athens. Thessaloniki will take place at 18:30 in the afternoon on 19 May and the celebration will be shared with joint events that are held for the first time. I believe that it is a positive step to promote the Pontian issue. I am very happy about that, because I think we are doing the possible message from the Makrigiannis speech that is a valuable legacy for our people. You will allow me to close with this, along with the assurance that we are trying and that our actions will continue, Mr Papoutsis. "This country we all have it together, and wise and unknowable and rich and poor and political and military and the least people. Those of us who fought, depending on the sitter, have to live here. So we all worked together, to keep it all together and not to say either the strong 'I' or the weak. We are in this and not in me." In these words, I would like to close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. We continue with the debate on the first under No 1637/15-2018 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Stop the OSCE bus line A16’. Mr Bourrai's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. On a pretext, we must apologize to Mr. Bourrah for changing the order. The duty of the ministers is to change the programme, but it is necessary, I would say. We therefore ask for the Members' understanding when their turn changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr President, but I also have a question for Mr Mavragani.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u14	All right, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Bourrai, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the inhabitants and also the thousands of Elefsina's workers and visitors were upset when they were informed a few days ago about the immediate interruption of the A16 bus line - historical bus line - which connects Elefsina to the centre of Athens, in particular Koumoundouros Square, not the Constitution. I say that for example. This line serves thousands of citizens of western Attica every day, not just Elefsina. The interruption without prior consultation - and I stress this - made it difficult for the players in the region to move people, as they are now forced to make cross-passes either by metro or by suburban or other bus lines. For some time now, the wider region of Triasios Field should be served with more and more frequent routes, both locally and to Athens, due to the development of the industrial and commercial zone and of thousands of workers. Instead, the conditions of association of the Trieste with the rest of Attica are tragic, although in the area one of the very large hospitals in Attica operates, the Trinity Hospital, which daily visits hundreds of undignified relatives who may not have or may not have a private means of transport. Elefsina is one of Greece's most important and globally known cultural treasures. Individual tourists visit her every day. Timeless all tourist guides - you know that all with tourist guides walk, when we go somewhere - report bus line A16 - and now they will be searched - as a line connecting the center of Athens to Elefsina. Let us not forget that every year the events of the Assynchrians - they are in August and September, with a lot of events - become a attraction for too many people from Athens. Indeed, in the midst of the city's preparation as the European Capital of Culture, 2021, it is more urgent to operate this line with more frequent routes. Tourists will be unable to visit the area by public means to admire its cultural heritage and enjoy the events that will take place from now on, as well as throughout 2021. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of this, Minister - and this is why I considered it right and I asked a timely question - the municipal council of the Municipality of Elefsina met with the presence and participation of the Regional Unit of West Attica - and you know where, after all, the Elefsina Labour Centre - Western Attica and Elefsina Cultural Capital 2021 reached a unanimous resolution - on the reopening of the line. I read where it ended and I stop here, thanking for the tolerance, Mr President. All those who said before, namely the Elefsina municipal council, the Western Attica Regional Unit, the Elefsina-West Attica Labour Centre and the Elefsina Cultural Capital 2021 - which is an honor that this city - unanimously says: 'We are asking for the A16 line to return, firstly, on regular routes', not to abolish it but to strengthen it. "Secondly, local routes will be created in the industrial and commercial zones of the Triasian Field, a request which has been constantly submitted to OSCE for decades since the Western Attica institutions have had no response. Thirdly, to identify exceptional routes for the purposes of the city's cultural capital and other cultural activities, Auschyria Festival, tours of archaeological sites, etc., with central, key points of the capital, such as the Constitution, Thessios, Piraeus, etc. And fourthly, direct consultation with the OSCE in order to implement the above". I am tabling this unanimous resolution in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, I'll start with the last one. We, as you know, in our government, with imperfections and threats, however, have great desire and endless aim of man-centerism. When this issue was born - and I will tell you exactly how it was born and how it was resolved - consultation with the region was a project. That is why these consultations were concluded yesterday with the presence of representatives of the municipalities and other local actors in the OSCE and, of course, they concluded that this measure taken, the different transport approach following studies, favours the transport link between the inhabitants of this sensitive and popular area, which we must all be deprived of, and favours it in the following way. First, line A16 as it existed was a line that was malfunctioning. Why was he malfunctioning? Because he was passing through points of great transport, he made patrols to end up at the Metro Station of Agia Marina, passed through the Avenue of Athens and while he could make a decrease in distance and quick approach to the Metro Station of Agia Marina, he did not do so and finally arrived at Koumoundouros Square after an hour, while the frequency of the services was over forty minutes. Today, with what happened, which basically integrated line A16 by line 876, the route was differentiated. Within twenty to twenty-five minutes these people are at the station of Agia Marina, from which they will not walk, can be intertwined and approached without any effort at any point in the center of Athens, where there is of course the dispersion of the metro stations. What happened to this day? People traveled with labor and torment without frequent attendance - forty minutes, and now it is twenty minutes and with an hour and more route - in Koumoundouros Square and from there had to walk at least one kilometre, to the metro station at Metaxouri and from there at any other point of the center of Athens. This meant that people were afflicted, because obviously it is a fact that the people starting from Elefsina were not all destined for Koumoundourou. They wanted to go to Koumoundourou, to go from there and elsewhere in the center of Athens. Obviously, then, we had to find a way to favour these people and make them easier. I think this way is in the right direction. Here we are, however, to see it again, if matters arise in practice, because you know that citizens' daily lives sometimes show the way to go in the transport measures too. If we see that they are not served, here we are with a dynamic approach, namely plasticity and adaptability, to see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said beginning to say that any meeting and I know it has taken place in the run-up to the end. Yesterday the OSCE first met with representatives of the region. I am sorry to say that without any warning, we have quickly been told that this line is being interrupted. Where? From the capital of West Attica! I must tell you that typically - and now because we are talking about large cities - Eleusina is the capital of Western Attica, which hosts the former county now, public services, agencies, which means that all the old West Attica is served more widely when we had the system of prefectures. In your words, honestly, I'm curious. So people are massagers, Minister? You said you were improving the situation. Their project was to operate the only line that connects Athens with Elefsina. Now, as far as the rest is concerned, I have mentioned it, but in their resolution people say that, over time, it is the heavy industry - and so, Minister, the heavy industry is in the Triumph - there is the national wealth of the country it offers all over Greece. There are the big refineries, the large paint factories, large production units, cement plants and everything you can imagine. I am in favour of this over time: these people, always on a project to protect the environment, must also have some compensation, some compensatory benefits. Instead of benefiting, you stop the only line in which he is served, even the one who cannot, Minister, because he is old and learned to get on the bus and go down to Koumoundouros. What are you talking about? Who did you talk to? You retrospectively come to say that the route passes through Aigaleo, that it takes a lot more time. Why did you ignore people? And can I tell you something? It does not belong to the New Democracy, the Vice-President who votes unanimously. It doesn't belong to any municipality. I don't "color" people. They are rulers of local government and they do their job. It doesn't belong to Elefsis Labour Center. Do you understand? It does not belong to Elefsina Cultural Capital. They have unanimously taken this decision, which they have promoted both to you and to us. I, as a Member of the region, considered it appropriate to raise this matter in a way which is a matter of urgency, because, Mr President, we really need to know first of all what a topical question means. Timely question means people and workers and thousands of visitors saw one morning sharply, not even a warning, interrupt this bus line and then start looking to see if some old or unfamiliar letters or anything else you can imagine. No matter what you tell me, Minister, that from one bus they go down and the other they go in, it's not stuff. Minister, the only thing I would again insist on is that in the area of the Triasios Field centred on Elefsina, which has so much offered and offered to the national wealth of the country, this line, which the whole world knows, in view of the preparation of the European Capital of Culture. I told you that with the map, he opens up and he's looking to find the A16 from Europe, from America, anywhere. From there on, the rest, with which we agree, Mr Minister, is written, namely, that the routes must be increased, that the local routes must be strengthened, and that is because there are workers who go to different areas that are not so easy, that is to say they are not 100 metres away or fifty metres away. It's the entire Trinity Field, there's the military airport in Elefsina, there's a thousand other things to do with your intervention to the OSCE, to support these routes. My request remains this, which is also the request of all I have said, to return - and the rest we are discussing it - the A16 bus line connecting Elefsina to Koumoundourou square in Athens, the one the inhabitants learned for many decades, the one all the workers and those who want to visit the cultural treasures of Elefsina and come every year in August and September to attend the events and performances of the Aussieles. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u21	Piraeus - Elefsina 845. Piraeus - Elefsina 871. Acharnai - Elefsina 878. Acharnai - Trinity Hospital - Elefsina 871. Elefsina - Mandra 817. Elefsina - Mandra 861. Beach - Upper Elefsina 862. Elefsina - Trinity Hospital - Mandra 863. Elefsina - Aspropyrgos - Rupaki 861.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u22	Every two hours, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u23	Obviously, the Greek state, under our cover, which we do not put "capital-drugs" on urban buses like you did, which we obtain 8 million in spare parts to repair buses and put them back on the line, while you left them in 2012 without maintenance, which we let sensitive social groups use public transport, because that is how we need to do, as far as we can, as we can, in the direction of service of this sensitive social area as Eleusina is. Apparently there'll be flaws. Obviously, there will be uncertainties. But here we are to improve everything. I think that when substituting a line that was on track over an hour with another that has twenty-five minutes, a line that was on the way for every forty minutes with another line that has twenty minutes, a line that left you a kilometre from the metro - I say about the old people you mentioned, who can't walk - with a line that leaves you right next to the metro, we're probably in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. We move to the third with number 1643/15-2018, a top-stage question from the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Compensate directly the flood victims in the Prefecture of Eotolokarnania". Mr Moraitis' question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Half of the time has passed since the major floods since the beginning of December 2017 that hit the Prefecture of Aetolakarnania, floods that left behind huge catastrophes in popular households, in over two hundred homes, in some ten small family businesses, in infrastructure, on the road to Klissoura, where previous governments and your government left out of connection with Ionian Road the largest municipality of the prefecture, Agrinio, with about 100 thousand inhabitants. And there, when the disasters occurred, there was indeed a hustler in terms of people's communication. These floods have damaged and destroyed agricultural crops, warehouses, farm machinery and other fixed capital. They drowned animals. There has been great destruction in hundreds of acres of cultivated land that have been smuggled with stones, logs of trees and have been completely destroyed leading to despair of the owners, poor farmers, who have been left without income. On this land there were crops, Minister, which are not present today, they have disappeared. None of the perpetrators got 1 euro. And don't answer, Minister, that decision was published yesterday in FEC, that which provides for compensation, as you will tell us, of 5,000 and 8 000, respectively, in households and businesses. They haven't even taken 1 euro so far! This FEK doesn't say anything at all and nobody believes it, because it's exactly the same thing you did three years ago with the great floods that took place in the county capital, in Messolong, and the wounded, three years now, apart from a small help from the municipality, they haven't even got one euro. But the most important thing, and most serious, is that there has been no substantial cleansing or transfer of balls. They worked in the first few days of some town and district machinery were photographed in the "site of crime" we, municipal rulers, district managers, the Interior Minister next to you, the Secretary General of your Ministry, expressed their sympathy, ordered compensation, but the residents did not take any euros. Achna, talk about the causes, about this premeditated crime, which is the result of the total lack of anti-military protection and shielding measures in the region! And we say that because it's not the first time. The residents of the county are in the same work every year! As I said, in 2016 he drowned the Messolong. At the moment, we actually have huge disasters in the region. Minister, the anger and indignation of the people of these regions who have been affected are extinguished. It's not just that you didn't take any relief measures, it's also that they're not taken, as I said, anti-military protection measures and shielding the region and are exposed to weather phenomena at any time. That's why we call it a premeditation crime. Of course, these projects that protect residents are not in the government's priorities, because they certainly do not leave great profits to construction groups. That is why you do not incorporate them into the NRP, which is why we have 'fly' budgets in the municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Moraite, please complete your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, the questions are specifically - and we want you to answer them - and they are the following: we are asking what action you will take to compensate the affected, to clean the fields, which is an important issue and a question of survival for the poor, but also to approve the funds required to promote projects that will protect the region, so that people do not live and are not in front of the danger of new floods and disasters at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, as you know, the Greek state over the last few decades, in fact, prioritised the work of a window of work, which appeared more and not to works which protected man himself from natural disasters and, of course, his property. This is deeply rooted throughout the public administration, but - if you want - both in society and in local government, which calls for such projects. Step by step - we are trying to change this and our own directions are in the direction of prioritising projects that protect against natural disasters. We all need to know that the process of delimiting either rafts or anti-military studies and construction is involved in multi-drugs, but it is necessary at times - I will say it - a process of various services, or the Local Government II degrees when it comes to plain or semi-terrestrial areas, or forestry services, when it comes to mountain and semi-urban areas. Indeed, this is malfunctioning several times. But here - to answer what we have done in this particular case - despite the fact of this process and despite the fact that the municipality is involved in domestic equipment, that the region is involved in the equipment of businesses, and that we are compensated for the building infrastructure and we are all together compiling a committee to make self-consciousness and to see the delimitation of the damage, despite this, we have taken our own way. Unfortunately, however, such applications and supporting documents were not submitted. That is why we had to give a further deadline to submit the applications. In other words, we have the phenomenon here of public administration running a little faster than society or local government. Despite the fact that local government, which has the directity of daily contact with the affected citizen, with our affected fellowman, seems to have been more sensitive and more running. That is why we have been forced by the Vegetables, which we issued, to give another deadline, to finally bring us those applications with which we will be able to give the money, beyond the money we have, of course, given - EUR 5 000 per person - to those who have actually been affected. So there is the problem. It's a whole problem. Indeed, the process is multi-formal and multi-level, but necessary, because it cannot be done differently. The municipality must be responsible for the equipment of the houses. The region must be responsible for the equipment of businesses and, of course, for the buildings of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, thank you for your tolerance to my prototype. Mr Minister, you have not specifically answered any of the questions we have put to you. You are putting responsibility on the municipalities, on the municipality, the particular responsibility it might have. This may exist, but it is a challenge to really lay blame on the flooders. Do you know what they call that in my village? "Where they owed us, they took the ox." That's exactly what you're doing, Minister. As far as the words you said about the FEK and all of this are concerned, it is without reflection. People hear it. I told you that similar FEK took place in Messolong three years ago. That's where they submitted the requests, all the supporting documents. They haven't received compensation for three years. And that's all? Minister, we have examples throughout the country with wounded people such as those in the floods in Evros, such as in the fires in Chios we had a few days ago, such as in the Preveza Cryppo, where we had landslides and still have not taken a drachma, such as in the Lefkas earthquakes, so all that you said does not really meet the needs of the affected. Something else: because the question originally had been made to the Interior Minister who left a moment ago, there is also a question to the Minister for Rural Development. Don't tell me you're unresponsible. Your anti-grass policy is unified, Minister. What you have said is not about the large number of injured farmers we have stressed that they have literally lost their land. Don't say it's the responsibility of another ministry. We say clearly that they will not be compensated. We're telling them to hear it, because you're going to refer them to the P.S.A. It does not cover either the robbery ELGA that flies the producers, which takes supernatant premiums and does not cover any basic diseases, nor does any damage to these phenomena. It refers to the ASEAN, which is a time-consuming process. If they ever get paid after four, five, six years, for such cases we have throughout the country, they will get crumbs, which, as we have said, do not respond to damage. That is why the proposal of the EPC for ELGA is only timely and necessary in public with funding from the state budget, with the participation of farmers covering 100% of all the damage from weather phenomena and diseases. Minister, they were damaged in tractors, machinery, warehouses. This world from where will it be paid? It is not included in the 8 thousand that you say it will be given to businesses. Your government, like the previous ones, is trying to hide. You claim to be the cause of extreme weather. We tell you that extremist anti-grassroots is your policy, and in this area which does not prioritise the people's needs, which endangers human lives, which leaves the environment unprotected, the existing people's housewives and the production of poor medium-sized farms, while, Minister, which science and technology can predict and shield from these disasters. We need another policy that at its heart, in its design, will have the protection of people's families and people. We say clearly that they should not wait any longer. We are also addressing this step by the perpetrators of the region. They must take the case in their hands, fight with their struggle to claim and demand compensation, which will respond to the level of damage. They must not leave the unavoidable government, the municipal authorities, or the regional authorities, which, when the television cameras went down, forgot about the people affected in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u33	So because you also want proof of the reason for the truth that we are turning our policy towards man and we are not doing the work of a window, listen. It's about your area. You should know that. You don't know that, though. Credit commitment and credit transfer 1.800,000 for flooding and repairing damage from natural disasters October 2016 to Messlogi municipality. On 14-3-2017, transmission of credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u34	If they took 1 euro, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u35	Don't interrupt me. Forwarding the credit means giving the money. Whether they used them or not is their thing. That's where you're going to ask your question, not us. Secondly, listen to what you should know. On 10-4-2017, credit transmission 1.200,000 for the restoration of anti-military technical works in the regional unit of Itoolakarnania. Third, transmission of credit 1.200.000 on 2-11-2017. What for? Conservation and modernisation of selected mechanic installations, pumping infrastructural pumps from the disastrous 2016 floods in Messlogi municipality. But we don't stop here. Because some people have uncertainties in local government and don't study these things, we do them. What did we do? The anti-military elevations management completed studies on the following projects: Complementary projects and upgrading of water ecosystems for regional district compartment of Itonokarunan budget 10,000,000 euros. Work on sewerage and drainage of pumping stations one, two and six and related works. Place: Messogeon Sea, budget of 10,600,000 euros. Operation of coastal areas of Ambros - Amphichia, budget of 17.112,000 euros. Enhanced projects, first phase of Valtus Prefecture, budget of 41,227,000 euros. Studies completed. They didn't even have studies. And we gave them money to do the rest of the studies I told you, and we made them, not for screenworks, but for human-protecting projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. We continue with the sixth question under number 1635/15-2018 in the Second Cycle of the MP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the prefecture of Serres". Mr. Mavraanis will answer Mr. Nicolas Mavraganis's timely question. Mr. Jeleigh, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. The Joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou and the Minister of Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzi, published in FEK 1867/29-5-2017 on the location of thirty new toll stations on the Egnatia road and on the vertical axes, apart from making the Egnatia road from a development, social and geostrategic road, uncompetitive now for northern Greece and especially for its connection to the south-eastern Balkans and Europe, is disastrous, disastrous and disastrous, especially for the prefecture of Serres. Why? Because the vertical axis Promahona - Serres - Thessaloniki, E 60, a length of 96 km, is a road that has not yet been completed. A few months ago the last twenty - two miles were delivered. But we have about fifteen to twenty kilometers from Melenikici to Vinela that really remind of a bombed landscape, and we expect this to be built, because it is the entrance, the portal of the country to south-eastern Europe. It is planned to create three new tolls in ninety-six kilometers. Already one has settled on the border with Bulgaria in Promahona. There is one in Strymonikos and one outside Thessaloniki, in Evkarpia. You understand what this means to the already tested and wintery Prefecture of Serres, where this now brings an unbearable cost to local communities both for the movement of people and for the transport of goods and goods. The advantage of the Serres prefecture, that is to say, being next to Thessaloniki, becomes a disadvantage. With the creation of the three new toll stations, which are now forbidden to transport and move goods and people to Thessaloniki, being next to the large urban centre is becoming a disadvantage. I ask, Minister, because this was the prerequisite in relation to the supplementary memorandum to transfer Egnatia to the TSED to privatise it, if you intend to revoke this decision on the creation of the two new tolls, and in particular one in the area of Strymonic, which is within the Serre prefecture and outside Thessaloniki, Eukarpia. That is why we are asking for a direct negotiation with partners - creditors to redesign on Egnatia how to set up tolls. However, all the entities of the prefecture of Serres, zero, chambers, seven municipalities, all react in relation to the exclusion of the prefecture of Serres with the banning cost of contacting Thessaloniki. If you can't do this, then I ask if you intend to make a ministerial decision to exclude all the citizens and businesses of the prefecture of Serres from paying the end of the toll across the Serres-Thessalonica axis? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr Papoutsis, it seems to me that you are ignoring some basic things. You know, in 2012 and 2013 we weren't government. It was you. You know, the ministerial decisions 241/2013 and 215/2012 have been signed by the following people: Chrysochoidis, Gikas Hardouvelis and Venizelos. Where do they belong? In your party, at least two of them. Do you know what these decisions are? These decisions, 241/2013 and 215/2012, read as follows: Transfer to the company "State Restoration Fund of the State, TIADED", and means include Egnatia Street. You said before that we transferred. In 2013, you are making another decision. You say, in fact, that you are transferring without consideration in the direction of exploiting this route, without setting a limit. You are, in fact, coming with your ministerial decisions - Mr Chrysochide - and you are making twenty stations. And you say today: 'Yes, but you put others'. Then, in 2013 and 2014, the rest had not been prepared. You had a duty to do that, too. We're trying to resuscitate. Do you know how, to speak frankly, Mr. Congressman? Only through the fair and fair measure of toll variability, electronic tolls and satellite tolls. That is why you did not say, in the last decision, the one we issued, there is the clause that these tolls will only be used for that period until the new analogue toll system is in place that the citizen will pay only for the kilometres he travels and take him out of isolation. There will no longer be, Mr Papoutsis, the bars that are faced with each day as a barrier to entering. It will use the way from there and from there on it will pay as much as possible and in the time it can, the amount that it can pay, as we have announced. This measure is what can stir up your commitments, the ones you made in 2012 and 2013. Have you forgotten? But perhaps there is a'storm' in your political thought. Do you know why? This particular area of public works and tolls should not have touched on it, especially now that four months ago the European Court of Auditors made a decision, made a conclusion and said that there, around 2013-2014, you did the following fantasy: you reduced by 50% the material object of the projects under a concession and increased their remuneration by EUR 1.2 billion. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jeep has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really surprised to hear the Secretary of State come as Pontius Pilate and say that earlier governments took Ennaia to TEAD. If you understood well, I told you that in your ministerial decision you were placing thirty new tolls on the Egnatia Road. And in Serres Prefecture, in the ninety-six kilometers, of the thousand four hundred fifty of the Ennatia Road, you have three new tolls that were not anywhere. That's what you negotiated. You bring these costs to the detriment of the Serb citizens. Don't come and say that was what happened. And why didn't you change them? You didn't negotiate? On the contrary, you go to sell the Egnatia Road against 100 million, when with the eight tolls in a year and a half, these costs were covered. Why did you accept the creation of thirty new tolls? But I forgot, we have a Minister at the relevant Ministry, Mr. Spirtzi, who was then leading the "I do not pay" movement together with other ministers who today "grave" the Greek people with the new tolls, but they come and promise in some regions, such as the recent SYRIZA conference in Eastern Attica, that it is intended to abolish the two tolls in Varube and Agios Stefanos. He seems to be a Minister of Transport only for the East Attica, at the expense of the rest of Greece. Did he talk there? In fact, you come to a prefecture, in the prefecture of Serres, which is the last in relation to per capita income - I will submit in the Minutes the figures - to impose three new tolls, making the main axis that unites Eastern Europe with Thessaloniki and the port, Promahona - Thessaloniki, cannot be used anymore because of costs. Do you know what consequences this will have or will have for the choice of other axes with other ports in relation to roads - which Turkey, the Muslim arc, the Balkans, or the use of side roads such as the Serres's death network, the Styrmon Bridge - Petritsi - Kilkis - Thessalonica, which is a completely forgotten road, especially in the last three years and which is not even maintained by the relevant ministry? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you need to understand how important it is for the prefecture of Serres, an aesthetic county, this road axis that was a development lung for the prefecture in relation to its interconnection with Thessaloniki. You are now forbidding access to this roadmap which is monopolistic. There's no other way to get Serres to Thessaloniki. Costs are unbearable and there will be great reactions from Serres prefecture. I have been trying since 7 June to have a debate in this House on this matter. Three times was postponed at the previous Session of Parliament and seven at the current Session of Parliament. Ten times in total! Why doesn't the Minister come and say about this design? Why does he not come to say what he has imposed on northern Greece as a whole? Remove the development road in northern Greece with the thirty new tolls. But in relation to Serres county, to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u42	And finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u43	...you should, Minister, review the creation of the two tolls, because it's not up, as I told you. Egnatia Street is a thousand four hundred and fifty kilometers and you put three tolls in the ninety kilometers. We need to review the placement in the Strymonic Serres and Eucarpia of the creation of these two tolls, or else we need to be free for the whole prefecture of citizens, businesses and goods.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u45	I am going to make a general position which may perpetuate your attention, and that is what we are the appropriate ministry. You haven't once talked about it. It is possible, when a person resides in an area, using Directive 199/62 of the European Community, to get rid of tolls, since there is no other safe passage to home. There is already a prior notification by the Minister of State of the discount policy that we will follow in mid-20% for workers who are using the road every day throughout Greece, not just in Serres. But I will actually reply because you may not like what I said, and that is why you did not comment on it: firstly, you committed the country to this Egnatia Road Convention. Secondly, for the additional tolls that are three and not thirty, the commitment was undertaken anyway by the financial exploitation that you signed and by ministerial decisions of 2012 and 2013 you have appointed. You did, in fact, show the direction with two ministerial decisions, one of 2012 and one of 2014, where as you build, you also put toll stations. I'm saying that again to hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u46	Assemble them, bring these decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u47	Now listen. If you don't know the ministerial decisions you made yourself, that's really a joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u48	Check them out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u49	I have them here, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u50	You're kidding us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u51	But don't interrupt because it's at least rude. So listen, and do not make gestures or interrupt. So we'll try to reconstruct what you've created. I tell you again to hear it from the people of Serres: we will therefore try to implement the electronic toll system as quickly as possible. Because, indeed, what you said is unfair, there should be a body of toll stations within a short kilometre, which does not account for the kilometres that the citizen and the user are going through. That's why we're going to undo it with the electronic tolls. We've already had the competition, it's in phase two in June 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u52	Don't make fun of society. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u53	But don't interrupt me, it's at least rude. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Jelloney, please, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u55	So here's the answer. You must have the courage to hear it. So the answer is: We will reinstate what you have created with the electronic tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u56	No lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u57	Lie, Mr. Jelloney, that's what you said when you said we knew nothing about the Ennaia Street.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u58	Eight stations and you made them thirty!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u59	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u60	On the Egnatia Road you took her to TIADED, you signed the commitments, and that is why you are now apologising to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u61	Cancel it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u62	We are therefore canceling in practice with electronic tolls, which are indeed the most proportionate and fair system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and an educational attendant from the 7th Amarousio High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me brief you on the topical and urgent questions that will not be discussed. The first under number 1638/15-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In despair the residents of the Exarchates", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - irresponsible obligations - the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The tenth under number 1628/11-5-2018 a topical question by the Independent MEP 2, Eftathiou (Stathi) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manner of attacks by people of the underworld and forging rebels", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade - committed obligations - the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Eleventh question under number 1609/7-5-2018 from the second question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A Letter of protest and despair of residents of the Exarches", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - unreported obligations - the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The Fifteenth, under No. 1615/8-5-2018, topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of Exarches in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - inconvenience - by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Also, the nineteenth under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Knowledge from a para-state website became the unprecedented attack on the A.T. Caesarian', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Nicholas Toska. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would The 20th under number 1151/26-2-2018 a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent on the basis of revelations by Panagiotis Kammenos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would The seventeenth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior on the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia, will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would We continue with the thirteenth, with number 1604/7-5-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Reinstate initial regulation n.3852/2010'. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, both for the general regulation and for the understanding you have shown. I would also like to thank the Minister for his understanding. The question is: In 2010 with the great law on local government under the code name "KALIKRATS" the term of the self-government was extended to five years. He had the noble goal of giving time to the members of the government to complete work. He has made some restrictions to safeguard the authority and function and trust of citizens in the institutions. In particular, if a hereditary ruler was last convicted of felony or serious defects, which the law defined in detail, he was responsible for the office. If he had not been condemned to a first degree or referred to serious crimes or felonies, he would have been put on holiday until the case was finalised. In 2014, under the so-called Samara - Venizelos government law, this meaning was altered, it remained the discounts - alas - but the terms of the holiday became much different, much lighter. If someone was involved in a serious attack and was not accompanied by restrictive conditions, it was not on holiday. I can clarify that a serious flood was seen as corruption and corruption at this stage, which is of key importance to public administration and political life. Nor was the convicted person put on holiday. A correction was then made by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Kurubli: if the restrictive conditions were to be met, the holiday would not be lifted, because after the eighteenth month necessarily, if the trial had not been done, the restrictions would be lifted and we will proceed. However, it remains, in my assessment, the request to shield the institution and to maintain the confidence of the citizens in full. A defendant or a sentenced person may not, in the first instance, continue to determine the fates of his fellow citizens and regulate daily life. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what he intends to do in view of the great reform of the so-called 'CLISTEN' which will regulate many important issues of deeper democratic operation. He also tells us how he intends to shield the authority of the rulers, their position and the faith of the citizens, who, above all, should be of interest to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. The question will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Xydakis, with your question in essence, beyond these specific provisions, you are raising a real problem that is the image of public officials and especially those who serve self-government. In addition to these regulations, which, in one way or another, provide for certain things in the case of referral by self-government, there is indeed the question of the credibility of selfgovernment as a whole and in particular of those which, as we have said, serve it. Therefore, I think we, as a state, should shield the prestige of these people in the best possible way. This debate is not about people who serve in self-government, but also about political persons, and it is a debate which deserves to be directed precisely towards raising the authority and shielding those who hold a public office. In particular, in relation to your question, ‘KALIKARATIS’ did provide that, in the event of a crime, a person was placed on a temporary basis following a judgment of the Court of First Instance or an irrevocable act or a direct call against which the right of appeal had been exhausted until the final decision was adopted. In the case of the offences, they were put on holiday following the imposition of a judgment in the first instance until the final judgment in the case was delivered. There were then the arrangements to which you referred, under Law 4251/2014, in which the conditions for imposing the holiday status were indeed met. It was basically a relief. It is precisely on the basis of the previous reasoning that we have been consulted in 'CLEARED I' on specific provisions with which, in the case of felonies, we are effectively reintroducing the previous regime provided for in 'CALLERDAY'. And in the case of the offense we separate and take a more detailed approach, depending on the case of the offence, because it is not all offences in the category of offences with the same gravity. And much more we have to think that there are also cases of mayors who are called upon to apologize for events relating to previous terms, but who have come out in the light of publicity over their days, without directly related. So there is a need to balance between what we were saying before, the safeguarding of the institution, but at the same time not to place, if you want a regime of defamation, a man and not to recognise him his right to be innocent until proven guilty. We, with these thoughts, have - I repeat - reintroduced the earlier arrangements provided for by KALIKARATIS in the case of the felonies. So there is no limiting the restrictive conditions to be put on holiday once there has been a judgment in the first instance. In the case of the defects - I repeat - we are making a distinction, which is provided for in Article 236(1) of the law which is now in consultation. This is our approach. We are now discussing this with the representatives of government. Obviously we will also see it during the debate on the bill in June in the relevant committees so that we can achieve what we want, namely that no one has the shadow on it unjustly, but at the same time that public money is safeguarded and that the functions of self-government are safeguarded, because you realise that those who manage public affairs must be literally ruthless, and even be seen. That is where the specific proposals we have made are aimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications. To a very large extent, I am covered by all these requests in the bill, which I have addressed, and I hope they will be completed in the best possible way in voting for the law. I fully agree that we should not hold the officials hostage on the basis of a judicial adventure, which can be in their favour and prove to be white and be left with this shadow, and we should not hold them hostages and because of the long and slow judicial process. I think that the judges should understand that in such cases they should take over and resolve and operate in this process at a speed not only for the benefit of the people involved, who are the first, but also for the benefit of the sense of justice and democracy for the citizens. However, we must say that on the basis of what exists - and I hope the new law will correct them - we had a mayor, who was sentenced first to bribery - bribery and illegal betting entered compulsory holidays. Time has passed and the felony has been transferred to a flood, to a serious flood. For both forgery and trafficking and bribery - bribery, crimes are, but, as the legislator had anticipated years ago, they are very serious and are of a different nature when we talk about a elected ruler. He's back and he's dominating properly. How does the citizen believe the institution as a whole now, not the person and legislation that has allowed him to dominate, and he is perhaps convicted to a second degree? And how will the overall system of 'democracy - institutions - justice' trust? That is why I hope and wish all my fellow Members of all democratic groups within Parliament will understand the content, how citizens' faith will be shielded in a five-year term of office to a ruler who has been elected for five years, so that everyone can be shielded, and the institution, function and person and Parliament who, together with the government, legislates such laws. We have the complications and adventures at the great national level from the predictions and the mesh of Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 157 of the implementing regulation on the responsibility of ministers and politicians, which has brought us to a crisis of confidence in the citizens. So let us not transfer this crisis, which we must change - and it is a commitment of many political forces and within the Constitutional Review - let us not transfer these difficulties to local government, but let us solve them once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u69	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u70	I think, Mr Xydakis, that I can understand what you are talking about. It is a case that has been discussed against Coron. It concerns a large city in our country and it is one of those cases where they do not honor self-government. From there on, the truth is that the long time to deal with some cases is an extra issue, whether you see it on the one hand or on the other. Whether it's for someone who we think may have a chance of having suffered or proven to have done what they are accused of, and therefore there's a public risk, or for someone who is ultimately innocent, agitated and accompanied by the shadow of a class. This is another debate, however, which we need to see as a whole, as you have said. The term of office, since you mention it, although it is not the subject of our question today, is proposed to return to four years with the new law we have tabled. It is something which, I think, needs to be matched with the mandate of the Members. Indeed, because at one time some heretics are invoking 'but, well in the way the measures are implemented, through bureaucratic procedures, we do not have time in four years to do something, so does one need to show a project, in order to proceed with a few assumptions, to have an extra year of the four?' The answer is that we need to correct everything else, that we need to combat bureaucracy, that we need to be more effective in the way the state operates, in the preparation of studies, in the implementation of projects, and not to say that we have to compromise with a multi-faceted, overlapping regime, which acts as a brake to implement certain projects. For all this, we will be able in a comprehensive way, as we have been discussing it for a very long time now, within the framework of a diverse dialogue with the people of self-government, to discuss them in Parliament, and I think that we will certainly end up choosing those legislative steps, to implement those reforms, which will incorporate an experience that has been in place over the functions of selfgovernment in recent years and which will lead us to a new period, which I think will ultimately be in favour of both local societies and citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Pano Skourletis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers attending the 3rd Cesarean School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say to the students that today you are watching in Parliament the one of the two functions of Parliament, which is called parliamentary scrutiny. In other words, Members are asking questions from various points of social and political life to the ministers who sit on my right and who are responding to the questions and concerns of Members. This, as I said, is one of Parliament's two functions. The other is legislative work, that is to say we are voting on the laws that apply to society. The third question under number 1644/15-2018 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis will be discussed to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To stop electricity from PPC S.A.". at TEV - Eye of Tirnavo - Vineyards in Larisa.’ The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. As you have said, Mr President, the question concerns the acute problem arising from the dismantling of PPC in TEV of Matti Tirnavos and Vineyards, based in the Vineyards, with the result that there may be disastrous consequences from the failure to irrigate water and, by extension, watering a series of crops - mainly trees - but also crops of corn, cotton and others, as well as in the case of cases in this area, an area of about twelve thousand hectares. In discussions which have taken place recently on the occasion of TWG's debts towards PPC in the direction of the settlement, if you like, of debts between TWG and PPC and governmental factors, the problem has not been solved. No water is irrigated, no crops are watered. PPC has its own requirements in case. He asks, for example, all the amount or, anyway, a percentage of the total amount of the debt. The debt is close to 2 million. It is an old debt, of course, which has been added to the course and with interest on late payment, and this sum, and all of it, cannot be paid by the TWG. Of course, it has submitted a proposal to PPC for the next period within 2018 to repay part in instalments of an amount. The question, however, is that we are at a time of strong demand, with strong irrigation needs, as you can see, and the intervention to be made in the direction of resolving the problem should be immediate. So the question to the Minister, to the Government, is: What steps will he take to deal with the problem and to ensure that the region is irrigated immediately, permanently and with an adequate level of cheap - of course - water and, of course, irrigation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Giorgos Lambroulis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, in 2015, we received a irrigation network really archaic. We have received a landscape, according to which the IMPs, whether TWGs or OEBs, were overcompensated either because of the ineffectiveness of the administrations or because of mismanagement. PPC is one of the main lenders to TWG. The documents we have requested show a proven inconsistency in this TWG, as the TWG itself admits. I'm reading you. ‘PPC. Gentlemen, we acknowledge that we did not respond to the regulation to the Public Power Corporation in the previous year 2017 and the lack of confidence created is a given year". I now speak as a State Secretary for Rural Development and not as a representative of PPC. But we have to say things by their name. I'm on it. PPC responds and reports that this TWG is one of the most inconsistent customers in its category. It is characteristic that every year, just before the irrigation period, he proposes an arrangement for his debts. The company facilitates him, but then fails him. You will tell me that the marble will be paid for by the farmers and that the farmers must not pay for it. As the Ministry of Rural Development, we are interested in watering farmers. This is why PPC says in writing that despite this unacceptable behaviour by this body, PPC is prepared to make a further facilitation without, of course, creating conditions for new inconsistencies. In my dentistry, I will mention exactly what he has done and what the Ministry of Rural Development will do to avoid the problem being repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is well known and we do not disagree - we are saying quite clearly - that there was the so-called 'bad management' at TWG level. However, there were responsibilities beyond any administrations that exist today. I am going to open up a parenthesis here. After all, let us be in charge of management on the initiative - if you like - or with pressure from the Ministry and from the present administration as well as from the previous ones. Because, if you'll excuse me, but when you take over the administration in a space like this, you have to look a little back and see what's going on. In this direction, of course, we must also see management and management control, if necessary, in the question of debts, etc. Of course, however, the issue of this TWG, for which we have asked the question, is not about the last two - three years. Of course, it's been too long. This, however, is the result of a specific policy - beyond the management issues of this TWG - of all these years and at the level of local administration - the prefectures at that time, the powers have now gone to the regions - but also to the central state, the central government, the governments. Now look at this: when in the 2000s - I say this in this example - it may have happened to other TWGs - the current has risen sharply by 300% from PPC, this TWG from 30 euros the trench paid the 10 euros through the collection by farmers and the remaining 20 euros have been committed - supposedly - by the prefects, there are also political issues, but also issues of responsibility. Of course, this is the legacy of the regions as well. However, the regional authority is also penalising the island in this respect. In our view, the regional authority is also responsible for this issue. Of course, there are issues in the conduct of a water policy, whether irrigation or water supply of the city, in urban centres, etc., as well as in energy issues. For example, this problem, regardless of the extent and the acidity of the TWG in question, is slowly "driping" - let me the expression - emerges in a number of TWGs throughout the territory. And you know that very well as Minister at the respective ministry. This is the result of PPC's most pressing policy - and after privatization in particular - which takes on a more aggressive policy in the direction of debt recovery. See here, for example, in TWG - possibly other TWGs on the ground - what are they asking farmers for? They are asking to pay advances for 2018 in order to collect and possibly cover some of the debts. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Give me a few seconds. The farmers at this time, as I have said in my prototype, where the irrigation needs in the fields and in their crops are increased, are at a dead end. The apricot, for example, needs one or two water and the harvest will begin. I said before about corn and cotton, about the pastures which are about fruit and vegetables, which I am passing away from being sold to the people, beyond their mass production and placing on the market. So if the government does not intervene, if we do not immediately start watering, we will have to deal with a disaster, which will have an impact on farmers' incomes and thus on the imposition of taxes, so that we do not include the burdens that are experienced by farmers in this policy, the carpets, taxes, etc. In our opinion, therefore, the government should move directly in this direction and not be prevented from getting involved in the PLO, TEI, etc. Tomorrow, for example, we must open up the cranes, Minister, to make pumping power and to start watering. The world is in despair!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. After PPC's written reply, I hope and hope that the problem will be resolved quite immediately. PPC, however, needs to see that thousands of producers, thousands of irrigators behind TWG administrations, are behind the TWG administrations. Your question reveals a major problem and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development must ensure that the chronic problems and diseases of the past do not recur. Because the problem of this TWG will be solved, but the question is not to repeat the time. And what, as the Ministry of Rural Development, have we done? And you're asking who's doing control. Yesterday I was at the Tower, at the TEV of Myrtunes. The correspondence shows that this TWG is good faith, has proposed settlements, he has proposed safeguards. PPC should see these and not ignore such proposals. But, Mr Papoutsis, I repeat that we are judged by our policy and by the fact that we are in trouble for years. What have we done? Since last year we have carried these agencies to the regions. We gave them the opportunity to hire staff. By means of specific legislation, which has been incorporated into the draft legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development, we are giving a solution to the collection of irrigation fees for the proper functioning of the agencies on the one hand and, on the other, to the possibility of adjusting the producer's debts so that the farms can continue to be viable. We want this problem, Mr Papoutsis, to be resolved and not to be repeated in the future. We believe that the agencies will be able to collect irrigation fees - something which they could not do for so many years and which is why they have not been able to pay the electricity - and, on the one hand, to avoid jeopardising the viability of the farms, because, behind the administrations - I repeat, the farmers are, behind the administrations, thousands of producers who have to and will have to water their fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. MP Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 19 May to 24 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u80	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and an educational attendant from the Kouvarra Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell the students that they are following a parliamentary control procedure, where Members are asking questions and checking the government, they are developing the question, and the Ministers or the Secretaries are answering Members' questions. It's a government check in a way. This is one of the two functions that the House has as its responsibility. The second is legislative work. In other words, the House, in this area, in the Greek Parliament, like other parliaments in other countries, is voting for laws of the state. We continue with the topical and urgent questions. The fourth under number 1634/14-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits from the use of the waters of the River Eueus and the River Mornos", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Department responsible is the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The second, with number 1625/8-5-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage to the Mornos Bridge", will not be discussed due to lack of competence, with the suggestion that the Ministry of Interior is responsible. They will not be discussed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostolos because of the visit of the Minister of Agriculture of Cyprus to the Ministry, the following questions: The second question under number 1624/8-5-2018 is the first question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Are you planning to increase the tax in bulk of “dimers” from 57 minutes to 6 euros?". The twelfth under No. 1586/2-5-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “payment of compensation from ELGA for damages from the quartz loss in November 2017. The fourteenth under number 1608/7-5-2018 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Prior crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals’. Finally, the third question with number 4699/26/3-2018 by Mr Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The livestock farming in an emergency”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational sessions from the 7th Amarousio High School (second section). The House welcomes them. Let us tell the students that this is the Hall where the two functions of Parliament are performed. One is the legislative function, where laws are passed and the second function - very important - is what is called parliamentary control. In other words, Members have questions on critical issues of a timely nature - and that is why timely questions are being said - to the members of the government and to the Members of Parliament, as you will then see, he is developing his question and the Minister is answering, taking into account what Members say. In this way, the government and government are controlled. Here is the eighth Question No 1636/15-2018 by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Available quantities of potatoes in the communities of Mounts and Ano-North Prefecture of Serres". This question, as will the previous question, will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to stress that I have had another timely question, in relation to the situation in which the Greek livestock farming and, in particular, ovine and caprine animals are situated. And the meaning of the timely question, as you mentioned before, is on key issues relating to specific productive sectors or parts of society. The Minister must come and answer, so that solutions can be found. Unfortunately, you see that the Minister responsible for Agriculture repeatedly refuses to come and take a stand on this matter by simply giving interviews to justify unjustified submissions. In relation to the timely question of the indisposed quantities of potatoes, particularly from two villages of Serres, Brodos and mountainous mountainous villages, two extreme mountain villages with special weather and climate conditions, I would like to mention: Since November 2017, Minister, in my question, I had known to the Ministry that potato producers from this region had a problem with regard to their availability. There was a lack of interest by traders, due to impermeable potato imports and harmonised practices on their part, in order to compress prices, which they achieved. Consider that in these villages cultivation is a monoculture. In addition to a 10% that puts beans, the remaining crops are limited only to the cultivation of potatoes. The cost of production is increased, around EUR 600 per acre, which means that the producer has a cost per kilo of EUR 0.28 to EUR 0.30. The merchants asked to take the potatoes about 0.12 to 0.14 euros. This is what you see as a disaster for producers. I asked the Ministry whether it could intervene in order to absorb part of the potato for food aid to the most deprived and refugees or even in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence to buy unavailable potatoes from the communities of Upper Brondus and Mountains. You have answered me, in relation to plant health checks, which I put as a question, on the question of the dubious quality of potato, which comes, particularly from Egypt. I had to resubmit a timely question now, when the temperature began to rise, because as you know, the potato is a sensitive product.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u82	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President, but the question is related to the previous one. At the moment, the potato has been absorbed to some extent by the thirty thousand tonnes, the majority at the degrading price of 0,05 euros, while the remaining ones have been damaged and are not for consumption. That is why, Mr Secretary-General, I have asked this timely question, so that the Ministry can ensure that the producers in question, who cannot even enter the new growing season, are left open to banks, traders, etc. - so they can survive. Let the Ministry ensure that they get some help through programmes either of solidarity from the European Union or even using de minimis, so that they can stay in their remote villages and continue to produce them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u85	Mr Papoutsis, there is indeed the problem with the unscrupulous potato in Serres Prefecture, in the regions of Brodhus and Mountains, but there is also Neurocopi. Personally, I am in constant contact with the mayors and the cooperatives and we know the problem very well. But let's see what he's done and what the Ministry of Rural Development can do about this problem, about the potato. First of all, the area is about 3.5 thousand acres in these areas. Potato, unfortunately, does not belong to fruit and vegetable products in order to benefit from the actions of the operational programmes and organisations, as you well know. What has he done and what can the Ministry of Rural Development do about the indisposed quantity? Firstly, the institutional framework for cooperatives and producer groups, secondly, the strengthening of professional producers in the improvement plans for machinery, thirdly, the standardisation of potato processing and the installation of new greenhouse gases, as well as of potato nets. As you well understand, the Ministry of Rural Development is, on the one hand, obliged to create the institutional framework for healthy cooperation, because, in order to absorb the product, the synergies of all, Mr Papoutsis, are needed. Magic solutions don't exist. I am given the opportunity to speak about a huge problem with which no one has ever dealt with Greek agriculture. I am not saying that people should leave the potato, but farmers do not know their client, Mr Papoutsis. They don't know him. We must finally come to our country, too, the institution of rural marketing. The responsibilities, the responsibilities of the state are given. Health cooperation, strengthening of improvements plans. In my dentistry, I shall mention exactly, even this healthy collaboration, what it has to do with the help that we can give the producers, whether we or the other ministries that you are asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Jelloney, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u87	Minister, I accept these, producer groups, potato producers' organization, improvement plans. How will they join us? She wants her own participation. Processing. Yeah, organize. Which direction and what money? Do you realize that at the moment the residents as a whole of the Neroscope and in particular the two specific villages of my prefecture, mountain and Brondu, have no money to pay for the ticket to send their children to school? Do you know what we're talking about? Are we talking about planning tomorrow when it doesn't exist today? A way has to be found, Minister, so that these potato producers can survive first and foremost, the permanent inhabitants of the mountain villages of the Neroscope - to take it as a whole - can enter production this year. How do they get into production? They have been open since last year, they owe dealers, they owe the Agricultural Bank, they do not know who they owe. Do you know what it means to sell the potato five minutes when it's costing 28 euros to 30 euros a kilo? Do you understand what it means with a crop that has a cost of EUR 600 per acre? We're talking about total destruction! So we cannot discuss tomorrow if we are not dealing with today. That is why I appeal because I know that you are sensitive to such catastrophic events. If it were some areas where they could cultivate other productions, we'd say we'd see it. This is a monoculture. They have no choice, Minister. To start adjusting the loans. A proposal should be made to the Ministry of Social Security so that there can be a transitional phase of one year's repayment of the premiums. They will soon have neither insurance information nor tax nor anything. They're going to fence. What improvement plans? The problem is major. I would ask the Ministry with its technocrats and scientific staff to see what programme the European Community could be integrated into. If there is no movement now, immediately, of financial relief, so that they can rejoin the growing season, then unfortunately it will be the total catastrophe for the production of the Neroscope as a whole. Unfortunately, however, it will be a disaster that will also cause a humanitarian crisis in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u89	Mr Colleagues, we recognise that the economic problem facing potato producers is very serious. But without opposition - you raise important issues - we would like to say that they have not reached this point by chance. The absence of responsible policies and strategies in agriculture has also reached the potato producers at this point. To understand that healthy co-operation is very important, I personally, sent a document to both the Ministry of National Defence and the Migration Policy for the request for the indisposed quantity...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u90	They got you late, Undersecretary. But it's too late now. Since November we have been asking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u91	I have sent a personal document, but in the event of a affirmative reply, Mr Papoutsis, the Contracting Party will be required to be a cooperative or producer group. It is not individually possible to allocate the quantity and connect the Ministry of National Defence - I repeat - in the event of a positive response. As far as the improvement plans are concerned, you said that there was a need for own participation. We are already in agreement with the Deposit and Loan Fund so that it can also cover its own participation in the improvement plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u92	Insurance information. Taxation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u93	And because you said about the loans too, I think that we have given a good solution to the old ones for the former agricultural bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u94	For the old days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u95	And we're trying to heal the wounds of the past so that sooner or later these people, like the producers of Serres Prefecture, will stand on their feet. For our part, and for my part, Mr Papoutsis, the documents we have sent to both the Ministry of National Defence and the Migration Policy are available to you so that, if possible, these people can be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Before we move on to the next question, I would like to announce that the eighteenth under number 1555/25/2018 will not be discussed under a topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Low-down loans from the Turkish bank of Zirat to tobacco producers in Thrace', due to the obstruction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. Cause: workload. Nor will the fifth be discussed under No 1646/15-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Resolutions - trade union persecutions in the “ANAMET” and “VIANAT” companies of the Stasinopoulou Group", due to a hindrance - be located in Montreal for the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Minister Mrs. At the same time, there will be no debate on the first question by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Standardization of the adorable form of slaughter of small and large ruminants during the Muslim religious festival “Kurman Bayram” in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace”, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Ioannis Tsironi. He will participate in an international event for honey organised in collaboration with the "APIVITA" and the Slovenian Embassy under the auspices of the Ministry. Finally, there will not be a debate on the seventh under number 1647/15-2018 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the needs of museums and archaeological sites, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos. Cause: workload. We move to the ninth under No 1642/15-2018 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". The question will be answered, as will the previous ones, by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I am obliged, following the large number of questions that you have announced that they will not be debated, because of the inconvenience of the ministers - of course, five of them are questions by Members of the Democratic Independence - to put to you certain points which show that this is systematic. Despite the resignations made by the Bureau of Parliament and by the President personally, the ministers do not come to answer questions. From 1 January to 10 May sixteen top fourteen questions were tabled. They came for the ministers or the Undersecretaries to answer one hundred and ninety - six. It's tragic. The percentage is below 30%. I don't think this is about personal or disrespect. Politics is the issue. They have nothing to say by the Ministers on matters which they are asked to do. And those who come and have the kindness not to set us up on the third time - and Mr. Kokalis came the third time to answer my question - have to say general and vague things. I would ask him to answer specific questions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have the issue of drought. In recent years, we have had a combination of high temperatures, reducing rainfall. The mixture is explosive. It creates huge problems. Basement tanks, reservoirs, surface water have fallen sharply and we have a global problem with flora and fauna. Of course, crops cannot stand. And if even now, with the amount of water available for irrigation, crops are maintained in mid-summer or towards the end of the summer will be found in a very difficult situation. I would like to know the plan for the immediate measures that should have been taken or taken in order to deal with them and, of course, what they are intended for the compensation of these people, because it may not be the weather for a certain period of time, for an eight-hour period, for example, but it is very intense and long-lasting, as a drought that destroys orderly production or creates a barrier to fruitage by stepping up the phenomena. And don't tell about the past, because you're for the fourth year of government and at the beginning of 2016 I asked you a specific question and asked for concrete measures. I would like an answer to them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u98	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to say that I endorse the criticism you have made of the low presence of Ministers and State Secretarys in the timely questions. I must tell you that the situation has improved, but very little, in recent years. Apart from the legitimate absences of government officials at international and other meetings, there are also a number of Ministers and State Secretarys who could, with greater respect for the parliamentary procedure, attend and answer Members' topical questions. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr Kegeroglu
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have to answer Mr Kegeroglou's complaints regarding my face, about my answers and my presence here in the timely questions. Firstly, Mr Kegeroglu, the first time he was postponed home, which means at the request of an official of the House on account of the Yunker visit. I was ready. The second time it was postponed because of my participation in a government mission in Israel. As far as my person is concerned, therefore, I have never been unjustified from the obligation to reply to parliamentary scrutiny. Let's get this straight. With regard to your question, which has to do with the second timely question about the projects in Heraklion, we should say that drought is a major problem. In my opinion, water, water shortages and drought are now being raised as a national issue. To mention what has happened in Heraklion Prefecture and what has been planned. First, the connecting pipeline of the dam has been built with irrigation networks through the Agricultural Development Programme 2013-2017. Secondly, the barrier of the Appeared barrier through the Third Community Support Framework. Thirdly, the Aegean-Kerais of Heraklion, the Irrigant Daphnes of Heraklion, the Irrigated Tylissos of Heraklion, the irrigation work of Gergeris and the irrigation work of III Messaras Zone. Fourthly, the Karavado lake and Skinia lake through the First Community Support Framework. In addition, in the new Rural Development Programme, in measure 4.3.1, the study was included as an inappropriate obligation: "Braft Study at the Platis of Rethymnon Prefecture after the transfer of the irrigation network and geotechnical studies", with a budget of 850,000 euros and the project titled "Placiotissa dam Mesaras Heraklion Crete", as well as the project "Manufacturing and utilization of a dam of Chalaavrian skies of the Municipality of Arhanas". For the implementation of the abovementioned acts of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, the Department of Technical Works and Rural Infrastructure of the Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for answering you. Let us say that the priority for financing these projects is those which lead to a reduction in water losses in existing irrigation systems, as well as in the development of already constructed dams. The rest in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u101	Minister, this is a wider matter. All the studies, the assessments of scientists, the relevant institutes show that more serious work is needed. In other words, we need to make use of the existing infrastructure, the natural resources and the wealth of our country and with proper water management - mainly for irrigation water, but also for water - to see how we are dealing with the problem. Perhaps further steps and initiatives are needed for which the government could have taken decisions to move forward. On the occasion of the project report, however, I would like to inform you that since I have dealt with several, indeed since the era of the Mediterranean integrated programmes with irrigation and collective networks and from the first, second and third Community frameworks, Heraklion Prefecture is one of the prefectures in which many important savings, irrigation and enrichment projects have been carried out. You referred to the First Community Framework - in contrast to your previous question - well. I would remind you that the Fascinated dam, the Placiotissa dam, which is at its completion, the Inion dam, the Amorgellen dam, the Arhanian dam, the Karavado - Partners - Wires, the Aegean irrigation works, Stylissos, Nipiditou, the medium-sized irrigation work of the Messaras which had been done before 1999-2002, and which was very effective, are works that have been done and are still other works that have been studied and pending, such as the Kalamium dam, the Amiron-Saint Basilica dam, the Ano Asian-Pearn dam. Of course, there are also some irrigation networks. It is a constant programme that must not be interrupted. I can see that three years now there is inertia. Unfortunately, only what works had started in the previous period have passed. I do not know whether this is the time for the Community framework because projects have not been auctioned in recent years and will be auctioned with the new one. Maybe that's it. That's the reality, though. What I'm telling you is that, when there's a dam, we're gonna have to see its nets. The previous ones incorporated it, and it goes on. Before it is done, you have to build the networks, otherwise we will come after three years of the dam - the Placiotissa, for example, ending wherever it is or is over to a significant extent - and we will not have networks. What's gonna happen? It's a more general issue. I see the government is reassuring, in case it rains to save itself from the weather. A rain saves us. I do not think that we can continue this way. I don't see a serious job in the medium term. The estimates say that all the next three to seven years will not overturn the current climate change data. So I would ask the Ministry very much to see a medium-term programme based on the evidence we have. I will present to you here a study by the decentralised administration, the responsible department, which is head of which is a worthy member of the public administration, Marinos Kritsotakis, to see how we can use these people's thoughts, proposals, ideas to reduce the problem, especially for Crete and the southern part, which is a priority area for dealing with desertification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u102	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, as I said, water is now a major national problem. I will reply specifically to you about the Ministry of Rural Development as regards irrigation projects to deal with drought. I can tell you the ministry didn't delay at all. This measure was published on 23 April 2018. This measure is called ‘enhanced projects’. The department of the Ministry of Rural Development will propose all the above-mentioned projects concerning Heraklion Prefecture, which I mentioned in my prototype, and these, Mr. MP, will be assessed according to the European Commission's criteria from the competent managing authority until 31 August 2018, so that the citizens of Crete, the citizens of Heraklion, know what projects are prioritised, what projects will be done and what projects can be carried out. The Government - such as the Ministry of Rural Development - was consistent with the fact that in spring 2018 the measure would be called upon and the assessment finalised in August 2018. But you will allow me to tell you that the problem is much more important and that many people want to cooperate. In particular, water shortages are not treated by fragmentary measures. It is now necessary to acquire education in water saving. We need to see the water problem as a national now. I am at your disposal for any clarification or provision of information concerning the projects that will be proposed by the Department of Rural Development in Heraklion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Before we proceed to the debate on the next question relating to the previous question, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from Paleochoras Halkidikis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are attending a meeting today, which is one of the functions of the House. There is the legislative work in which the laws of the State are enacted, and the second is the one you are monitoring and the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. This is also a very important function, as Members control government work, attend in person and in a rotation process they ask the timely question - as it is said - and the Minister or the State Secretary is obliged to answer in any way they believe in the question that is being asked. Today, therefore, you are happy to see - I say 'happily' - the last time question to be debated. The second question by No 2464/10-1-2018 will therefore be discussed by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platform River be immediately advanced to strengthen a Fall of Falls". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. This question is directly linked to the previous one. I will mention that for the third consecutive year the rainfall in Heraklion is considerably reduced. From a station east of Heraklion city, I will tell you the example that from October 2017 to February 2018 we had 214 mm, while in the corresponding period of 2016-2018, which was not satisfactory - we had 454 mm, i.e. we had 53% reduction. If we now take the example of the Plateau that is crucial because there is a dam that collects the waters from the Plateau, from 688 mm that we had in 2017 at the corresponding time, it fell to 441 mm, i.e. we had a 36% reduction. So we have all that suggests that you should be alert. You should have been alert anyway ever since scientists warned. But even now, there must be a different procedure. I have to tell you that the issue of the diversion of the Platy River is a top issue for the two prefectures. It's about southern Rethymnon. It's about the plain of Messara. Of course, it concerns the full use of the Appeared dam. With the diversion of the Platy River, the problem of irrigation of this fertile hub will be solved in the medium term for many decades. Unfortunately, since last year I asked you a question about the Platy River, I don't see any steps taken. You told me that in spring 2017 the invitation to fund the project will come out. But I do not know whether this work today has taken the characterisation as a complex and critical project, so it can be put into priority and can be implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure. In any case, I do not know whether this project has been launched, as requested by the region and as the government has agreed that it should be launched. First of all, I would like to know where we are, in relation to what you have already been late for a year, on the basis of the answers you have given me before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. In his protology, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr Colleagues, the previous topical question I think was January 2018 and not 2017. I think you won't question that. I'll use on purpose as I show some things, my dentistry in time. You asked in January 2018 if the environmental conditions for this project have been issued and what is the timetable for the project under the Rural Development Programme. I replied that the construction of these projects would follow the evaluation process for its inclusion in measure 4.3.1 of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 when it is activated. I continue what I told you in January 2018: As an indicative date for the activation of the measure, the spring is mentioned - here, as the current one was in 2018, it is impossible to say about 2017 - 2018. When was the measure announced, Your Honor? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal So you can see a consistency: In January I tell you that in spring 2018 the measure will be called. And it was published on 23 April. What can be done from now on? I'll tell you what, so you can also inform the citizens of Heraklion Prefecture? Our service will propose this project. He'll suggest it. And the managing authority is responsible for selecting the project, in accordance with specific criteria laid down by the European Union. One of these criteria is water savings. Therefore, we as the Ministry of Rural Development and consistently were in what we were talking about, but also in proposing this work for evaluation. The evaluation, Mr.Police, will be carried out by 31 August 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Undersecretary, Mr. Red. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Your effort is indeed an honorable one, Mr President. But I will remind you, clipboard, that on 17-3-2016 is the question of studies and projects for the irrigation laws of Rethymnon and Heraklion and the diversion of the Platy river, the reinforcement of a Fascinated dam. If you see the written answers I received from the Ministry, you will find that the promise to complete the studies and to integrate the project is with timetables quite different from the day we are talking about. I am talking about the question on 17-3-2016. The question was followed on 21-10-2016 to which you came and replied here to the House and made a commitment once again to what you said to me today. Then we have another question on 10-1-2018, which was also discussed as an answer to the House or answered in writing, and then on 6-2-2018 we have today's debate. I will not dwell on the space that has been lost and what has happened, even though it is crucial, because if the studies had actually been completed, approvals had been made, as planned in 2015, 2016, etc., and bureaucracy, the integration of the project, and its funding could have been made by the Public Investment Program and then joined the Ministry of Rural Development's programme. Moreover, most of the projects carried out in our country are financed from national resources and are then integrated, if they fulfil the conditions. It is therefore not justified that the invitation of the measure has been delayed. It might have happened last year, okay, it didn't happen, it happened this year. Unjustified inertia concerns the completion of licensing, the completion of studies, so that the project could have started in a different way and subsequently join the Rural Development Programme, to be financed from European resources. In this sense, even today, I would like you to tell me whether not only the environmental study has been approved, but also the request made by the Region of Crete that the work be classified as complex, so that it can take its way as such, which means a different bureaucratic approach, that is to say, an easier process, is prioritised. If there is this element, it will be important. And of course, this will make things easier to cover part of the time that has been lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u111	First of all, Mr Papoutsis, the point is that the work should be done, such as other projects, and that we should take advantage of the possibilities offered by the Rural Development Programme. But I shall mention that on 21-10-2016 I was not a State Secretary. On 10-1-2018, I answer you and answer you positively to your question now. What was I saying in January? I come to the second question for approval. You ask whether the necessary environmental decision has been adopted by the Ministry of the Environment. The answer is - Mr Kegeroglu, I am giving you my answer on 10 January 2018 - that the approval of environmental conditions by the Environmental Authorisations Directorate has already been issued and I think that is the essence of your question. The answer has therefore already been given. The license has been approved. I repeat, the measure was announced on 23 April. The service of the Ministry of Rural Development, the Directorate for Enhancement Works will propose it and will be evaluated by 31 August 2018 by the relevant Agency for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, by the managing authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u112	Minister, there's a misunderstanding. The Region of Crete has asked for a specific document, which I will deliver to you, the project to be characterized as complex, to get a characterization. If this request from the Region of Crete is not approved, it will not be possible. And that is the broadest concept of the licensing I have mentioned, not only is the authorisation for the environmental study for this project, it is all the work to take its course with this approval that I have told you, to be classified as a complex one. Look at that. It is not just a matter of the Ministry of Rural Development, it is also a matter of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is why I would ask you to see it and to have an answer, even informally, on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u113	Your Honor, I think the most important thing is this. Our service - and the people of Heraklion know it through your question - will propose the project if the project meets the criteria for which the managing authority will decide within the next four months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u114	Give him the designation as a composite project.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-17-S1-commons.u116	With the agreement of the House at 12.11' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 18, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision on the distributed findings of the Special Parliamentary Committee for Preliminary Examination, established by the decision of the House of Parliament and No 21-2-2018. Page 128 3169/2285 28-2-2018 decision of the President of the Parliament on the exercise or not of persecution against the former Prime Ministers: 1) Antonio Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Pikrammenos and against the former Ministers: 1) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 2) Andreas Loverdou, 3) Andreas Lykourenzou, 4) Marios Salmas, 5) Spyridon - Adonios Georgiadis, 6) Ioannis Stournaras, 7) Evangelos Venizelos, 8) George Koutromanis, on the possible execution of the offences: (a) the donation of political officers (Art. 159 par. 1 B.C., as replaced with the sub. (Officials — Action for damages — Action for damages — Action for damages — Action for damages) (Fifth Chamber) (b) passive bribery (Article 235(2)). 1-2 B.C., as was the case with the second paragraph of Article 2. 1) OJ No L 343, 30. 12. 1992, p. 1. No 3666/2008 and No 3666/2008. See first part, No 9a of Article 24 of the EEC Treaty. 3943/2011) and (c) money laundering (Article 2(2)). 2a, c and dd. 3691/2008), in accordance with the finding and in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution, 153 et seq. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, as in force, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
