ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 15-5-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 15 May 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Committee of the Regions, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast, L180/96/29.6.2013) and other provisions - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 1980) for the adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer - Amendment of asylum procedures and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 17 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1637/15-2018 by Mr Athanasios Bourras, Member of the Republic of Attica, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Stop of the OSCE bus line A16’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1624/8-5-2018 by MP Laris of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Are you planning to increase the tax on bulk tsipouro from 57 minutes to 6 euros?' 3. The 1643/15-2018 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MEP Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Compensation for the destructive floods in the Prefecture of Itolokarnania". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1638/15-2018 topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In despair the residents of the Exarchates." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1625/8-5-2018 topical question of the PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Rehabilitation of damage to the Mornos bridge". 3. The Question No 1644/15-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To stop electricity from PPC S.A. in TEV - Eye - Tirnavo - Vineyards in Larisa.’ 4. The Question No 1634-14-2018 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits from the use of the waters of the River Eueus and the River Mornos". 5. The question by No. 1646/15-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Releases - trade union persecutions in the companies "ANAMET" and "VIANAT" of the Stasinopoulou Group". 6. Under No. 1635/15-2018, a topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promahona - Serres - the port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1647/15-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the needs of museums and archaeological sites. 8. The question by No. 1636/15-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on "Available quantities of potatoes in the communities of Mounts and Upper Brode Prefecture of Serres". 9. The question by No 1642/15-2018 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". 10. The Question No 1628/11-5-2018 by Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and gadgets." 11. The 1609/7-5-2018 topical question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “A letter of protest and despair of residents of the Exarchates”. 12. The 1586/2-5-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Payment of damages from the quarantine of November 2017’. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 1604/7-5-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Re-establishment of an initial regulation n.3852/2010'. 14. Observed. The Question No 1608/7-5-2018 by Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "First crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals". 15. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of Exarchites in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated 1614/7-5-2018, on the subject: "Urgent need for promotion measures for the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou". 17. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. 18. The Question No 1555/25/2018 by Independent Messinia MEP Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Dark loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace". 19. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place. Cesarean’. 20. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A facilitation of the performance of adorable form of slaughter of small and large ruminants during the Muslim religious festival "Kurman Bayram" in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 2464/10-1-2018 asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKI to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platy River for the enhancement of a Phenomena dam". 3. The question by No 4699-26-3-2018 by Mr Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The animal husbandry in an emergency." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’ and ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania on speeding up the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’. The draft law was adopted in the competent Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to their ratification. I propose that there should be a single debate on both conventions and that those who object for five minutes be given the floor. Minister, we will hear the speakers first of all about both sanctions, and in a time of comfort you will answer both of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u2	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u3	As far as I can see, apart from SYRIZA, the rapporteur, Mrs Alonitou, for Cuba and another rapporteur, Mr Zimanis, for Albania, the other parties have only one speaker. We will therefore start from Mrs Aylonitou, who will speak for Cuba five minutes. So let's go to the first sentence that's for Cuba. In committee, SYRIZA voted 'in favour', the New Democracy voted 'in favour', the Democratic Reconciliation has been reserved - I was informed that Mrs Kefalidou is coming, but I am not yet voting - Golden Dawn voted 'in favour' and therefore has the right, if he wishes, to speak for five minutes. Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u5	Mr Cassidy, before you start, I would like to say that because you are rapporteur for both sanctions, you can be placed for both of them and if you do not get five minutes, there will be a tolerance. Here you go, Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u6	I will be placed for both sanctions. So I shall start with the Cuba issue. We are talking about an introductory - 'democracy' - a Stalinist-style democracy. It is no coincidence that it has so many fans in the ranks of the Government that the case of Cuba, where they are oppressed, human rights are being violated and that there are crimes against thousands of citizens, who are regarded as dissidents. We even saw North Korea and Kim Young Eun coming to talks now. We are talking about the last Stalinist type of democracy - a dictatorship worldwide. Also, it is no coincidence that Alexis Tsipras charged with a great amount, hundreds of thousands of euros, the Greek State to transfer a Prime Minister plane to Cuba to go to the funeral of the last-life communist dictator. After humanity had been rid of Stalin and Tsaucescu, Alexis Tsipras charged the Greek State to go to Cuba to speak at the funeral of Fidel Castro. Left hypocrisy is now classic. We have the average wage in Cuba to be $20 a month and, on the other hand, the regime's big players, your fellow citizens, live a life rich. Golden Dawn will definitely be placed against this penalty. Greece has absolutely nothing to expect from such sanctions with states which, I say, are trampled over human rights and have led a very large number of citizens, hundreds of thousands of citizens, to poverty, poverty and impoverishment. We are now going to the essentials of the day, because it is a very crucial national issue, it is a very important development, the opening up of the European Union's door to the Albanians with the signature of Greece, the facilitation of the Albanians, which is currently the state that, together with Turkey, is pursuing the most brutal resentment policy. It is no coincidence that Rama can now be considered - one of all serious analysts as an Erdogan maniac. The point has come, that is, a servant of the United States and American interests to say 'no' on some issues to the Americans, to fully support Erdogan's policy. We now have Turkish warships beaming in Albanian ports to tighten up Greece's most famous Islamic bow and we have the major issue of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, which, as you remember very well some years ago, was a basis for discussion that resulted in an initial stage of agreement, so that the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone would be delimited in agreement with the Albanians. However, Turkish foreign policy has intervened, in fact the Turkish secret services, bribed the Supreme Court of Albania, and this is how our national interests have been canceled. Above all the huge thorn, the huge knife Albanians put into the body of Greece is called "the suppression of the human rights of the Greek national minority in Northern Epirus". It is no coincidence that the SYRIZA Government in all these memorials it prepares, in all these pacts it signs with the Albanian Government, does not say a single word about the Greek minority of Northern Epirus. Very recently Albanians with bulldozers were slashing homes in the Greek cities of Northern Epirus, which they are trying with nails and teeth to resurrect. They were violating churches, violating human rights. We cannot talk about the Albanians' accession course, when the Greek ethnic minority on the North continent is threatened with extinction, while at the same time having a Rama who has prioritised the issue of Chemist criminals. We are talking about a criminally unwilling group that acted during the occupation in Thesprotia and today - listen - listen! Albanians dare and speak of Chemistry rights. And Greece, instead of putting them in place, says "yes" in Albania's accession process. This is an anti-national crime. It is no coincidence that all these days Parliament, all over the last few days, has been taking a bar of anti-national attacks, a storm of anti-national bills by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. We are talking today about putting the Albanians in the European Union by force, while the Albanians themselves are exercising a purely unwilling policy. Yesterday we were talking about illegal immigrants entering Greece. The day before, we were talking about gay couples who'd adopt children. Of course, above all, the greatest problem, the greatest national tragedy, is Macedonia's planned betrayal. And here, as the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs is present, I finally request an information as a representative of the Nation, as a representative of this House, as a representative of millions of Greek citizens who are fighting. Political parties cannot be informed, Parliament cannot be informed by the channels and leaks about Macedonia's planned betrayal. You cannot even say and celebrate that you have given the name Macedonia, either with synthetic Upper Macedonia or with synthetic New Macedonia. In any case, the performance of the name is a national betrayal, and that is not my personal view, but the view of millions of Greek citizens who, with the massive national patriotic rallys, reacted to the sellout of our history. So I ask for immediate information. What was distributed between Kotzia and the Skopje Foreign Minister and what does Tsipras intend to say tomorrow at the meeting with the Skopje Prime Minister in Sofia? What is being discussed and said and leaked in the press that Greece is saying 'yes' to give the name Macedonia, is enough for the Skopje at some point in the future, when they are in mood, to sign something in their Constitution that will be able to change it the next day, all these leaks - I say again - are at least nationally dangerous. We therefore require immediate information on this major issue, and we demand that this planned betrayal should not go ahead. Because the performance of the name Macedonia in any foreign state is a national betrayal. I would like to close, Mr President, by addressing the Bureau. Yesterday I was the victim of a brutal abusive attack. They were heard by the Step forward of the House, and indeed by the Vice-President of Parliament, most shitty characterisations, unacceptable characterisations at my expense, which I do not repeat. I have said that in my absence I allow myself to be beaten. However, it is not only the insults that have been unleashed against me, which must of course be deleted from the Minutes, because it is not possible to remain such misery in the Minutes of the House and to have a Vice-President of the House cursed me. He went out the other day saying "he goes to hell" to another Member. These must be deleted from the Minutes. The major thing, however, is that there appeared to be a factor of political power, a former government factor, that is, a former Minister, who is now Vice-President of the Parliament, a supreme state player, in the Stepma of the House to blackmail justice. Things have been heard, not unacceptable, but illegal and unconstitutional. It is not possible for a member of the ruling party, parliamentarian and Vice-President, to blackmail justice and tell judges what decision they have to make. And only with this statement, which goes beyond every line of anti-constitutionalism, should you be aware that when we go to the European Court of Human Rights, for all that we have suffered as a third political party, as a third political force, an upcoming political force in Greece, only by the statement by a former Minister and now Vice-President of the Parliament, which tells judges what decision they take and threatens them and is blackmailed by a step of the House, only by this has the Greek state been convicted of human rights violations. I would ask the Bureau, therefore, that all the hybrid designations against me and my party, as well as all the threats and abuses to justice, be removed directly from the Minutes of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u7	Only on the last point - the others you have covered, as you thought - I mean that I do not have a personal view of this. But on the subject that you have discussed, as you say, the person sitting next to you, Mr Pappas, who is part of the Conference of Presidents, I am sure he will bring the matter to the next Conference of Presidents and that is where any decision will be taken. I cannot unilaterally, and I do not know what has happened, take a position from the Bureau. We shall now proceed with Mrs Diamanto Manolakou. You can speak together about both sanctions, Mrs Manolakou, with a relative comfort of time. Then we will only go to the second part, where the other parties want it, and the floor will be given to colleagues. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. For Cuba I would like to say that the KKE has consistently supported the Cuban revolution, has made a decisive and decisive contribution to the development of the labour solidarity movement, on the part of the Cuban people, on the development of socialist society and the broadening of socialist conquests, the guarantee of a right to work, the high level of prevention and health protection of the people, the high level of education, the conquests in the field of sport, culture and so on. Our party is resolutely facing all kinds of anti-communist attacks in the Cuban revolution and strongly condemns imperialist aggression, its long-standing exclusion from American imperialism, the unacceptable common position of the European Union and the systematic interventions in Cuba's internal affairs. Of course, and today we demand that the blockade of the United States, the attacks on the Cuban people, who have sole responsibility for the development of their country, be stopped. The European Union is coming back after the common position of 1996 and adjustments are currently being made with the new agreement, that of the political dialogue you are bringing today for vote. We note that, first of all, our experience, our people's experience, is rich and capable of contributing to this basic conclusion, that the European Union is a transnational imperialist union of large economic groups, the monopolies and turns against the people. What can anyone do first? We experience them many times: industrial relations - rubber, insurance, you work a life and pensions are crumbs, privatisations from ports to airports and energy resources. All in capital for its profitability. But it is also the involvement of imperialist wars and interventions, such as Yugoslavia, Syria and elsewhere, as is the new crime, with the cold murder of sixty Palestinians and the injury of thousands of the state - a murderer of Israel and the United States. However, the European Union has retained the same distance between the victim and the perpetrators. That's right. This is the imperialist union and cannot contribute either to the development of mutually beneficial and equal relations between countries and peoples. It has its own pursuits, its own objectives, and this is basically what sets the carpet for conditions of expansion of the interests of European monopolies and their profitability, as well as for undermining popular conquests. These objectives are therefore evident in the text of an agreement which refers to growth and entrepreneurship. What does that mean in the language of the European Union, in the language of the chapter? They mean intervention in the internal states, in the domestic affairs of Cuba, they mean the formation of a ground for intervening monopolistic business interests, based on profit. They mean undermined acts against the conquests of the Cuban revolution of the conquests of the Cuban people. In this respect, we are already making use of hypocritical reports of human rights problems, when rights to capitalist, exploitive system are being persecuted every day. Besides, no one can hide behind his finger, when the SYRIZA - ANEL Government called the President of the United States "blessedly good" and agreed with him to upgrade the Souda military base and the other military bases in the US and NATO service. This government has proved practically to be an observer of the European Union's and NATO's pursuits and plans against Cuba and its people. We repeat this. We have lived and are aware of its dangerous positions and practices, the methodical and systematic intervention within the states and the meeting of the monopolistic interests it serves with US plans despite competitions who will have the upper hand. The wolf does not become a lamb, as the government approach advocates to delight the European Union. The logic of the common position and its objectives is further developed in the text of the new agreement and this truth has an obligation to highlight the JRC. You want to forget, but we will remind you of the anti-communist negligence within the European Parliament against Cuba and the Communist Party on the occasion of the award of the Sakharov Prize to Gigiermo Farina, an opponent of the Cuban people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We know well and you know that we have lived through the dangerous anti-popular strategy of the European Union and its objectives, and on this basis our party will vote against this agreement, just as we do in the European Parliament. In conclusion, we once again emphasise that the JRC will continue to express its internationalist solidarity with Cuba and its people, defending its Cuban revolution and its conquests, demanding that the US blockade and any intervention be stopped in its internal affairs. As far as Albania is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u9	Ms. Manolakou, you won't have the corresponding time for the other ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u10	A slight tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u11	Okay, I've already given you and you'll have another, but no more six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u12	We are in favour of friendship and equal relations and solidarity between the peoples and especially in the Balkans, in our neighbourhood. Of course the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and Albania is not in this direction, but it fulfils the objectives of the Greek bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading in the wider area of the south-eastern Mediterranean. In relation to Greece, we consider it self-evident that the war should be lifted, that the matter should be changed in books, that the rights of minorities be guaranteed or other similar issues. But there are also issues concerning, for example, nationalist positions for Great Albania and for the Chemists for whom the government is not talking about. These issues are dangerous and cannot go hand in hand with good neighbourly relations and cooperation between the peoples that the JRC has raised and insisted on all these years. Of course, the truth is that the government has become a signatory to the positions of Euro-Atlantic imperialism and with the support of the other parties and is rushing to close these issues, with the aim of forming the ground to speed up Albania's accession procedures to the European Union. And our party has expressed its opposition. The references to the Western Balkans and FYROM just hide this key issue of their integration with the imperialist organisations, NATO and the European Union. But that's not all. Mobility of these days for FYROM shows that, through the so-called 'roadmap', there are no issues relating to asymmetricalism and nationalism, which presuppose changing the constitution of the neighbouring country and - we will repeat what has been seen in the light of publicity - the complex name against all, erga omnes, is not guaranteed. Inside this complex bucket of competitions and interests, the Greek bourgeoisie and its parties pay particular attention to the Balkans. You are therefore seeking to highlight your experience as the oldest member of the European Union and NATO in the region, in order to implement everything that is of benefit to the imperialist alliances of the European Union - NATO - the United States, in competition with the New Democracy and urban parties. That is why you are very often receiving congratulations from the American ambassador. This is the political and military framework in which the specific memorandum of Greece - Albania with which the Greek Government undertakes to provide know-how and expertise in the Albanian bourgeoisie, namely how they will chain the people of the neighbouring country to the European Union's bonds. Promise that you teach her how to take anti-grassroots measures, to meet the criteria for accession to the European Union. Promise that you teach her how it will make public administration even more effective to serve capital quickly and to make the functioning of the market economy more effective, which is the main criterion of the accession of countries to the European Union. It is obvious that we are voting against the ratification of the memorandum. We oppose Albania's and each country's accession to the European Union. We are also opposed to Greece's accession to the imperialist 'collective alliance' and we are fighting for the release of those countries that belong to it. We support the struggle of the Albanian people and all the Balkan peoples against the anti-Fraudian governments and urban parties serving monopolies, domestic and foreign, and their imperialist plans. We are therefore voting against both instruments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u13	We now come only to the part of the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation with Albania, where the New Democracy, Democratic Reconciliation and the Union of Centres have expressed reservations. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. At the meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, where this bill was examined, we have clearly formulated the position of the New Democracy, stating that we are indeed in favour of promoting the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries and their entry into the European Union, but it is essential that they comply with the Copenhagen criteria. A country that wishes to become a member of the European Union should implement a reform process within the framework of European Union standards, should be governed by a democratically elected government, respect for human rights, have an open and organised economy and fully accept the European Union's obligations and objectives. The accession negotiations begin when the first criterion is met, namely the stability of institutions, which guarantee the rule of law, respect for and protection of minorities. This means that Albania as a candidate country, with Greece supporting its European perspective, is obliged to move on to a series of reforms. In that direction we can help the neighbouring country. This bill and the Memorandum of Cooperation aim to achieve the strategic objective of the European integration of the Western Balkans by providing for cooperation in specific actions in line with European requirements. However, there is no provision for obligations on the part of Albania. This memorandum of cooperation, which we are called upon to ratify, provides for unilateral commitments, only obligations from our country that will provide the necessary support and assistance, focusing on the political, economic, technological and cultural aspects of Albania's accession to the European Union, as well as the financing by Greece of adaptation programmes. What, however, is Albania's attitude to regional cooperation and good neighbourliness? Frequent challenges at the expense of Greece and at the expense of the national Greek minority in Albania show that everyone but accepts and integrates the acquis of the European Union into their national legal order when it comes to strengthening the protection of human rights, including rights of minorities, anti-discrimination policies, as well as respect for rights. Despite international conditions and agreements, our neighbouring country insists on questioning parts of our national sovereignty, claiming the property of Greeks and continuously engaging in a recital of faltering and challenging, for example by raising the issue of Tsamouria. The question we are asking is whether, beyond the Copenhagen criteria, Albania has taken seriously into account the Commission's messages regarding the prospect of joining the European Union, in particular by calling on the Commission to improve its relations with Greece to move forward with Albania's accession to the European Union. Greece, too, should not forget that in the past it has vetoed Albania, if it continues to expel Greeks from Northern Epirus and does not fulfil the main accession priorities. There is a large group of Albanians who respect and fully support their rights. We would say that most of them have been incorporated perfectly into Greek society. But we do not see the same thing happening on the side of our neighbours towards the national Greek minority who live from ancient times in Northern Epirus. Without democratic structures and without a stable rule of law, there cannot be accession to the European Union. In view of all this, we also expect the Minister for Responses on developments in Greek-Albanian relations, and in particular the actions that have been taken to resolve a number of critical issues, such as the agreement on demarcation of the maritime zones of the two countries - from what we learn there is not good news from there - the rights of the Greek national minority and the issues of water pollution. A major issue is the agreement on the redefinition of the EEZ, as the Albanian side had in the past shown serious reactions to the perspective of hydrocarbon research in the Ionian Sea, considering that plots 1 and 2 concern also conflicting areas. Here too, Parliament must know what developments in Greek-Albanian discussions are. This draft law on cooperation between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Greece and Albania should not be considered isolated, under laboratory conditions, but should be assessed on the basis of the course and current situation in which Greek Albanian relations are found. Cooperation in this case is not a two-way one, since Albania's obligations are not limited to our country. In particular, the Agreement provides, inter alia, for the further promotion of Greece's political support for Albania's European integration process, support for Albania's reform efforts in the context of the accession process, transfer Greece's experience and know-how on the accession process, promote the development of the institutional infrastructure of Albania's public sector, promote the development of the capacities of civil servants through the exchange of experts, educational programmes and seminars of civil servants, as well as the preparation of joint studies and research. What the agreement provides for is help from Greece in Albania. The Memorandum of Cooperation between the two Ministries should be included, Minister, and "submissibility and review clauses" to ensure compliance with the conditions of good neighbourliness and respect for Greece by Albania. For these reasons, Mr President, we recommend that this agreement should not be ratified in order to provide financial and advisory assistance for Albania's European Union accession process, which Albania must adapt to the political guidelines and priorities set at the Copenhagen European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Kefalidou, will you place where you have the reservation or will you simply place yourself in the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u16	In the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u17	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Elementary School of Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes, with a relatively comfort for both conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the bill on ratification of the European Union-Cuba Agreement. Yesterday I was in Brussels at the historic meeting of the 1st Council of the European Union - Cuba, which was intended to provisionally implement some of the aspects of the agreement, since it was foreseen that, even before ratification by all countries, once it had been accepted by the European Parliament, the Cuban - European Union dialogue would begin. I met with the Cuban Foreign Minister, Bruno Rodriguez, on this board. Cuba attaches particular importance to the ratification of this agreement, and why it is aimed at developing its relations with the European Union, and why it sees it as a unique opportunity to take breath in the face of the well-known economic war that is taking place from its great neighbour to the west of the island. The European Union has welcomed this signature and the first implementation of the agreement as a step forward for political dialogue between the European Union and Cuba. For our part, we consider it absolutely essential that the European Commission, through its Vice-President, should ratify it, and because we are fully in solidarity with Cuba and its people. We respect and want to preserve the great achievements of the Cuban revolution. Indeed, it seems to me that the attitude of the Communist Party of Greece is unexplained, because it either hides a question of the decision of the Cuban people through its Government to ratify what I said to you - I had the oral and explicit assurances of its Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is absolutely essential for the survival of the island - or is now questioning the very quality of the Cuban Revolution, as expressed today, even after its historic leadership has left the new President, Miguel Diaz - Cannell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u19	We demand the equivalence of relationships. There is inequality, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u20	Ms. Manolaku, please. You who's used to be a parliament, are you doing this? Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u21	On the question of ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation with Albania, I have no impression or particular intention of referring to the objections of the Golden Dawn. But I am particularly surprised that the New Democracy's coexistence with the Golden Dawn on this issue is one. I would prefer to accept the softest version, which indeed seems to be the result of what I have heard, of unrecognizable clandestineness not to have read the bill. Because the bill does not concern any commitment from our country to Albania's accession perspective, for the simple reason that the European Union has not decided to open accession negotiations with Albania either. This will be done in June, or rather it will be discussed if it is to be held in June, at the next Council of Heads. In other words, you have raised your point of view on a point of order. What is there right now? The obligations on the Albanian side to meet the Copenhagen general criteria, the good neighbourliness that we and five specific preparatory priorities, before the European Union's accession process has been decided, on issues that are particularly critical of us, because they concern corruption, which many of them cross the borders. They also concern matters of justice, rights and therefore protection of our minority. What does this memorandum provide for exclusively? The provision of technical assistance to help Albania meet these obligations. If the convention is unilateral, it is essentially just from the point of view of fulfilling Albania's obligations. Our side does not make any commitment to Albania's accession or anything else before the relevant decisions are taken. I also said to the committee, in my view, a similarly unacceptable statement from your representative, that we have known the countries of central Europe with our immigration policy, that is to say, an apology of the hardest anti-European views that are currently expressed in Europe, that it seems to me to be a peculiar tendency to reject the European nature that your party has always had and because of the strategic choices of its founder. I'll try to stay in the, diligent for you, the version that you didn't read and you didn't understand the bill. Because the opposite version, that the far right wing within your party has been so strong that you can go along not only ideologically but also politically with the Golden Dawn, is something I do not want to accept for a parliamentary party in history and your tradition. I would like to ask you to be particularly careful in the future, because stability in the Balkan region, not to be a black hole in Europe and a future pyridate warehouse, is a national issue that all the political forces must approach and bend to it with particular attention. We and we in this, as in all matters, as in Macedonia, want to be a force which serves national interests, solves issues and in no case solves a force that serves the tide and essentially the stagnation, which is in no way in favour of the interests of our country. For these reasons, I think that both bills should be ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u23	Mr Saridis, in procedural terms, what I am going to say has been overtaken, but because there is a little time in connection with the meeting, which will follow for the Pontius Genocide, if you want to place yourself on Albania for three minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. We maintained our commitment to this House, just as the committees have said, to ratify the agreement with Albania, hoping that it would have preceded - and this was our argument - a briefing on the problems we have bilaterally with Albania. This was not possible on the part of the Ministry, under the responsibility of the Ministry. Clearly the position of the Centro Association is Albania's European prospect. Clearly we see that once Turkey's European path is removed, one way or another affects Albania in turn. We have a positive sign, but since we do not know what is going on with the bilateral issues that exist between Greece and Albania, such as the EEZ or the persecutions made in the family of Albania, we will keep our position in 'present', Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u25	You are therefore voting 'present' on the issue of Albania.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kedicoglou, no dentology is foreseen by anyone. However, as a Bureau, I believe that the Minister at some point exceeded what we call 'free movement of ideas' and I understand what point you want to take, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u30	Yes, Mr President, I could also call myself personal, because I am not used to being called a extreme right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u31	It's not personal, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u32	No, I'm not used to being called a far-right, and I don't allow anyone to call me that. My path and my path tells me everything. We barely see extreme right-wing practices from this government. I would just like to point out to the Minister, who says that the government, Greece, does not undertake any commitment, the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which says that if there is no European funding, Greece will pay. So giving money and not making any commitment to me is hard to understand. I would have liked the Minister to have shown sensitivity and to have told us a few words about how negotiations on maritime zones are taking place, what is going on with the EEZ, how Albanian provocativeness is being dealt with. We do all of this arrogantly, and suddenly we blame others as far-right. It is a well-known recipe for the government, whoever does not agree with it is on the black front, to be far-right. I would say above all that they must look at their own mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u33	We are not going to start talking now about the right-wing or not. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u34	If that is the case, we too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u35	The Minister didn't mention you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u36	After he said that we were identified with the New Democracy. That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u37	Well, all right, there are other bills, Mr. Cassidy, that you're voting with SYRIZA. That's not a matter now. Minister, you have the floor to speak only of the part concerning the General Accounting Report. We won't ruin the meeting with congresses for no reason. Here, you have the floor for two minutes on this particular issue, for which one must be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I agree that we should not prolong a debate on something, which is obvious. After all, it is not just the point where there seems to be a symphony of the New Democracy with the Golden Dawn. We've seen her on other issues. I would like to give the lightening of the curiosity, lightness and non-preparation in the New Democracy. He didn't have to go to the General Accounting Fair. I read this article: ‘The Contracting Parties will consider financing cooperation programmes using the institutional cooperation and funding mechanisms operating within the European Union or from their respective national budgets, in accordance with their availability. No commitment is made. Priority funding from Community programmes shall be considered.' My advice, Mr. Kedicoglou, is to read the bills on which you place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u39	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I would like the floor to read, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u41	Now, Mr. Kedicoglou, don't go to this intercystinda. All right, that's what the Minister wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u42	I am sorry, the report says that of the proposed provisions if there is no funding from the European Union, there will be from Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u43	Good, though outside the microphone, Mr Kedicoglou's observation is recorded in the Minutes. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: ‘Under the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u45	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u47	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u48	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u52	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolution of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u53	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania to accelerate the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u55	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u57	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u58	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u62	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Creating the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania on speeding up the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u63	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u64	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, with the consent of the House at this point, we are adjourning the sitting, which will start again at 11 a.m. on the subject of Parliament's work: a special plenary session on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special session of the Parliament for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou. At today's sitting there will be five minutes from the Bureau, on behalf of the Government, from the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Panagiotis Kourublis and colleagues appointed by the Parliamentary Groups of the parties. It is known that the former Presidents of Parliament, Apostolos Kaklamanis and Virra Polydora, representatives of the World Council of Pontian Hellenism, the Panhellenic Federation of Pontian Associations, the Patodian Federation of Greece, the Association of Pontian Associations of Southern Greece and the islands of all four regions belonging to the WTO and the International Consortium of Pontian Greeks, are attending. The meeting is also attended by the Special Secretary of the Parliament, Konstantinos Vassilis, and by the Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, Professor Constantine Mavrios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 17th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today at a declaration of memory and honour, as laid down by a decision of Parliament in 1994, which recognised the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and established as a day of memory on 19 May of each year. I must say that this is not a formal process, nor is it a mere memorial. I think that our presence here today goes further than simply showing respect and suffering for the memory of the victims, but also keeping the historical memory. On the contrary, I think that with our presence here today, when people are living in the explosion of war conflicts, which lead to unprecedented uproots and international public opinion is under the shock of tragedy such as this in Gaza, it is more obvious that when the lessons of history are not taken into account, humanity is doomed to live as if history were not to lead to progress, but to be a catastrophic spiral towards the darkest rooms in history. The Greek Pontius are holding the torches of memory, not only because they have no right to forget the hundreds of thousands of murdered and displaced refugees, but also because they have the historic duty to remind the causes of mass crimes and disasters without fanaticism, without intolerance, without repulsive vengeance. As I said last day, it is important to remember the dramatic consequences of uncontrolled nationalism and the value of rights, freedoms and tolerance to the different, the peaceful coexistence of the peoples, particularly today that all this is being hard tested in neighbouring Turkey, in which a climate of hysterical nationalism and the revival of neo-ethnic aspirations is cultivated, even though we are in the 21st century and not in the 19th or earlier. This third-world pillar should normally have been blocked by Europe and Turkey's elite would have been called upon not to disregard international law and not to consider international conditions as the crust, which must be cut off to eat the geopolitical pie. Greece remains stable, calm and immobile in defending peace, territorial integrity, independence and not bent by threats and lionisms. Faithful to the values of its three-year culture and the principles of humanism, it does not approach selectively and according to the interests of tragedies, be it Iraq, be it Afrin or Gaza. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Pontius lived uprooting, lost their homes, their properties, their ancestral relics. But their souls were not rooted out. They wonderfully maintain the special features of their culture, their customs and traditions, which we experience in their various events. On the bad paths of history, they were not bent, even if they were forced to walk upside down. They fought for survival and foreseeability. We therefore honour their struggles, we remember with honour and respect the victims, and we hope that humanity will not relive such tragedies. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, former Presidents of the House, representatives and members of the Polish organisations, I am very pleased as Pontius, because for the first time in years there has been unity in Pontian Hellenism with regard to its institutional representation, and this is extremely positive, and it promotes good results for the objectives of Pontian Hellenism. My dear students, ladies and gentlemen, surnames and philosophers, "Argo" returns in the last hundred years of refugee status of Pontian Hellenism, comparing the coastlines of Pontou, infancy and mourning. Joshua swings the head over the rudder of the holocaust and throws tears blurred. Orpheus is dropping the lyric. The Amazons interrupt their cavalry matches and the Xenophon Myrians interrupt their nudity matches before the walls of the Bank. The violator of Hellenism in the last of Asia, the Patron of the Pontou, is psychotic: Elo the Pontus!” In these words, devastated by the pain and anguish of an entire people, Leonidas Jasonides described in his patriarchal speech in 1922 the great and tragic drama that the Polish Hellenism experienced in those years. "A flow of Auschwitz" characterized by the Polychronous Enecidis. Thousands of churches and nineteen schools were demolished. Eight hundred villages and cities are broken up. The deportations, the massacres, the barbarism, the culmination of the testimony of three hundred and fifty - three thousand innocent people, souls, in the sacrifice of a despicable attempt to expel the Christian peoples of Pontou and Asia Minor from the patronage. It was dramatic moments for our grandparents and grandparents, for those who were able and fled to Greece. "I am enclosed, I have seen the land and the grass, and I am glazed, and I have gone back and forth." In these words one can describe what Pontian Hellenism has lived through. And he came to the patronage earth believing that he will live hospitable moments, because he chose, defending his faith in Orthodoxy and his national conscience, to come to Greece, leaving behind all the material goods of the three thousand years of civilization and creation. He lived, unfortunately, for racist, difficult days, with the designations "Aesophoglou" and "Aesimioglou". It is a culmination of two MPs in the Greek Parliament in 1928. Deputy Turkish Minister of Turkey: "You, Mr Leonidas Jasonides, are not Greek". MEP Leonidas Iasonides: "I, Mr. Turkovasili, called Leonidas Iasonides". Ladies and gentlemen, Pontian Hellenism has turned the ruins of its soul and destruction into stubbornness, endurance and perseverance and creativity, and where it went, a farmer has forgotten and transformed the land of thousands of acres into production. In the crafts, in the letters, in the arts he brought a true culture that he created for three and a half thousand years. He tried to live peacefully and coexist peacefully, because it was a part of the genuine and abomination of Hellenism. "In foreigners I stayed Greek and in Greece a stranger". That was the pain, but the stubbornness was too great. I remember when I told Grandma "say to me, grandma, a fairy tale", the hurting grandmother who cried all her life because she left her husband undead to Ponto, said "I, my son, to work I know. That is why I want to say that Pontius seeker does not exist." That was the Pontian Hellenism. This was the effort he attempted in Greece. We Pontius condemned the recognition of Genocide, because Pontian Hellenism lived the suffering of Genocide, ladies and gentlemen, not for what he did, but for what he was, for his language, for his faith in orthodoxy, for his culture, for his national conscience. That's what he paid and lived the torture of Genocide. It was no accident what lived in Greece. For decades the issue was forbidden because it might have bothered the political and financial establishments of Greece. In 1994, with the initiatives of the Pontian clubs, leading by Michael Charalabides, the then Greek Parliament with the government of Andreas Papandreou finally proceeded with the recognition of Genocide. From that point on, it is our responsibility, particularly the Pontius, but of course the political parties and governments, to continue intensively, not because we claim something from Turkey - it is not a vengeance to do so, instead of Pontian Hellenism has in its DNA the element of peace and peaceful coexistence, and that is something that has been called upon and expressed by him over all these centuries and in the footsteps of Pontius and here - but because, through recognition, disasters that man can live through. Besides, the example of the younger Germany and Willy Brad's bravery to kneel before the Holocaust monument by apologising, is a brilliant example for our neighboring country. The tree of Greek-Turkish friendship, which we claim should blossom, will really bloom when this bravery is on the Turkish side to recognise this historical reality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a day of reflection, to see how we can really through the common place in this place defend our homeland and what that means, overcoming our evil self, many times and our weaknesses. Through a dialogue of a historian, a question arises: Torturers in front of scratching wounds? And there's the answer. You can see in front when you know where you come from. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, with one verse of Kostis Palamas: "Our land is great. It gives everyone the chance. Price and glory in the hand that rises first, not to fear, but to tighten the adversary hand." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Mr. Dessa, SYRIZA's Member of the Attica. Here, Mr Deed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to honour hundreds of thousands of victims and to remember the violence and uproot suffered by the Greeks of the Pontou. This is one of the black pages for the history not only of our region, but of all mankind. The Pontian genocide is not only a Greek issue, it is a European and global issue. The greatest enemy, ladies and gentlemen, of justice, whose purpose is to seek and punish the guilty and their moral perpetrators, is the time, the time, the time, the memory of the historical events, often leading to the legacy of the protagonists, the victims and the perpetrators. Few are the witnesses of the Genocide of our Pontian fathers. I doubt anyone lives on this Turkish side. We therefore mention a crime which cannot and should not be omitted from collective memory to remind us where intolerance and nationalism lead. Now, I remember what the Minister said earlier, that they were not prosecuted for what they did or at least for what they offered to this place, but for what they believed. Turkey has so far refused to admit what the New Turks have done to the detriment of the Pontians and the Armenians, of course, during the period 1914-1923, without forgetting the Assyrians in that mosaic of the Christian peoples of Anatolia. He refuses to admit that he then proceeded with the tactics of mass extermination of the population in the name of ethnic cleansing. The Turkish diplomacy must reread the sources of the history of the Turkish nation with a pan-human rationalization, point to historical truths about the Greek nation, thus giving, in the 20th century, room for a confession to unjust acts against the Greeks of the Pontus. A number of petitions in international literature and state archives from various countries are the undisputed witness of the Genocide Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Pontus on the northeast coast of Turkey was named after the Black Sea. The word "Point" does, as you know, mean "sea" and "Softness" means "hospitable". It was a hospitable area, because it was inhabited by hospitable people. As a movement the New Turks Revolution in 1908 promised justice, freedom and equality. In practice, however, it was guided by the doctrine "Turkey in Turks", in order to transform it into a nationalist movement with a concern to draw up a plan of persecution of the Christian populations and extortion of the region. Genocide has basically begun with the events of World War I since 1914 and ended with the defeat of the Germans, the Central Powers in 1918. It continued beyond 1918 to 1921, i.e. when the Greek-Turkish conflicts followed in 1919 in the Asia Minor Territories completed in 1922 with the destruction of the coasts of Asia Minor and the burning of Izmir. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Greeks of Pontou, under the pretext of the security of the Turkish state, suffered massacres, deportations, were forced into the desert without food and water, and all because some sick, we would now say, minds decided that the Greeks of Potto did not fit, should not exist in the new Turkish state in the name of Greek purity. Terrorism, the labor battalions, the exiles, the hanging, the fire of the villages and the murders forced the Greeks to take the mountains, creating an anti-Semitism to protect civilians. People who had been there for centuries had to flee, most of them found the unjust death on the way to installation on new unknown land. Again, however, the epilogue was not written, as he was written by the uprooting of the survivors. With the treaty of the exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey, the last Pontius left for Greece. No one left behind except those who were equated with violence, and that was the tragic end of Hellenism. On 19 May it was established as a day of memory of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, the day that in 1919 Kemal Ataturk was unloaded to Samsonda for the second phase of the massacre, considering that it is the only way to transform a multinational country into a nation state. This zobis, death and misery are called upon to remember not to maintain eternal controversy with Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, or even worse, and to maintain and create feelings of reverence in the new generations. Away from us, these perceptions. However, it would not be an exaggeration if we were to argue that what happened in the years of the new Turkish terrorism in Pontus begins with the sense of excellence of fanatics, fundamentalist Muslims and also contempt for any non-Islamic. From such ideological monologues humanity has suffered many times, such as Nazism or fascism, monotony, but also intransigence that the Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has today acted as a sultan in his relations with Greece and the rest of the world, as they poison our neighbourhood and the wider coexistence. We are being called today, ladies and gentlemen, to remind our ancestors precisely to ensure that such human tragedies are never repeated by anyone. But remember, and also understand what the real threats to peace and democracy are, threats that seem to some of our fellow citizens here have forgotten them and ignore them and give them praise for beings in preachers of hatred and patriots. That is why we would like the neighbouring country to take the historic responsibility for those tragic events, not to be forced solely on apology, but to ensure that both peoples do not again have such tragedies and misery. So considering what we could do as a country to this historic memory of the three hundred and three thousand victims of the Greeks of the Pontus, I would say that we should stand with respect, sobering and responsibleness, with knowledge foundation and driving force. That's why we need to teach the story of Pontou to our Greek birds. Today we are heard by the Greeks from the galleries of the Parliament. At the same time, we need to make it clear to the Turkish leadership that it is impossible to think of its integration as a member of the European family governed by the principles of enlightenment, prolonging the public apology for the burden of slaughter and blood on its back, an apologies from which it will benefit indefinitely. Not to humiliate the Turkish nation, but to render the souls of the hundreds of thousands of victims appropriate, so that we can finally build a better future for the coming generations, leaving violence, hatred and the sick to live only in the black pages of history books. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Besiropoulos, MP for Imathia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, former Presidents of the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament has recognised 19 May as a day of remembrance for the Genocide of the Pontians. I would also remind you that the Government of New Democracy with L.4285/2014 of the well-known anti-racist law lays down strict provisions on the refusal or approval of genocide and crimes against humanity recognised by international courts or the Greek Parliament. Today I feel very honoured and responsible for being a speaker at this thematic anniversary session dedicated to the second largest genocide in the twentieth century. The thread of this sad anniversary extends back to the not so distant 1916 when the murder, extermination and uprooting of the Pontians was conceived in a way that is undisclosed and inhuman. By 1923 it is estimated that more than three hundred thousand Pontius paid with their lives this modern historical brutality. The repetition of the Holocaust by Nazi Germany a few years later constitute the black pages of history and humanity itself. In fact, they are barbaric and inhumane practices that, whatever years pass, are not going to be eradicated from the global collective historical memory. These inhuman practices demarcate the dividing line towards culture and barbarism. Ladies and gentlemen, the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism is a living story. History shall not be deleted, deleted, and in particular shall not be deferred. We're talking about an uncovered genocide. The Greeks of Pontou were displaced and exiled from their ancestral homes. They were subjected to marches of death and extermination. Kills, rapes and murders form the scene of horror. Historical evidence highlights this atrocity. It is estimated, according to the Black Paper of the Central Council of the Ponties in Athens, that three hundred and fifty-three thousand people died, a figure representing 50% of the total population of the Greeks of the Pontou. There are historical sources and reports that cause awe. The geopolitical reclassifications and the formation of new correlations in international relations do not erase historical memory. The story of the Pontians is a reality. Its recognition is not a national act, an act of intolerance that raises nationalist instincts and contradictions. On the contrary, it is a historic debt and a sign of faith in the universal principles and values, a vindication of the efforts of all those who have for years given an unresolved struggle with evidence and evidence of the recognition of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Cyprus was the first country to recognize the Pontius Genocide in 1994. With the valuable contribution of the federal element and the Pontian union states of the United States of America began in 2002 to recognise the Pontian genocide. Such recognitions were made by states in Australia and also by states in Canada. At European level Sweden in 2010 and the Netherlands in 2015 were the countries that recognized the genocide of the Pontius. This effort for international recognition must continue in all countries inspired by human ideals and values. What we must all understand is that the historic event of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism must become aware of every Greek citizen not only to those who have a pontian origin but to all Greeks. The state and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regardless of the rotation of governments, must set the objective of informing international public opinion in all countries about the historical events that, as I have said before, are one of the greatest signs of the twentieth century. This requires labor effort, consistency and continuity, documentation and diplomatic flexibility and mobility. It is high time those who have not yet understood it are aware of the historical and the universal dimension of this effort. Recognition of Genocide is in no way a vindication in any case and only for the people who have been lost and their families. It's a restoration of the exact recording of the story. The international recognition of the Pontian genocide has deterrent effect, because it must not be doubted that on the dark side of history there were and there are forces that could repeat such practices if they feel that there are no consequences. It works, one would say, and as a stability factor, after setting rules to all nations and especially to those states that want to join the European family, such as Turkey. For accession to the large European family means acceptance and recognition of history, but also of universal values. Anyone who does not show respect for them cannot be a member of the European family and of the international security system. Ladies and gentlemen, historical memory in no way leads to the revival of nationalism, as some people believe. On the contrary, the desirability and logic of ethnic cleansing are directly aimed at historical oblivion and falsification of history. If we forget our story, if we pass as if these bloody pages are not there, then we may relive this brutality. The reminder of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, as well as the effort to international recognition, are in no way a threat to peace and security in the region. The perceptions of this kind lead to what the perpetrators of this inhuman genocide want to lead, to the deletion and counterfeiting of historical memory, but also to the question of crimes that constitute crimes against humanity. Today our thoughts are not only in the thousands of dead who have been bewildered by Pontian Hellenism, our thoughts are also in the ancestors, in the Pontian element that worldwide keeps historical memory unclean, keeps culture and tradition alive. There are people out there who don't forget, people who are proud of their mouse origin. There is a separate and valuable national capital that our country needs to make use of and strengthen: Pontian unions and associations active in Greece and abroad need state support. Ladies and gentlemen, this anniversary event is not a formal process, it is a headline of thought and national self-awareness. Our country is the aim of Turkish aggression that takes insurmountable and catastrophic proportions. Greece is a country of security and stability in the region. It respects and highlights the rules of international law. I would therefore remind you that an element of international law is historical memory. The rules of international law have been created so that genocide and holocausts are not repeated. That is why we must not forget, because oblivion is the one that encourages aggression and brutality. It is the oblivion that creates as a precondition for a misguided intent. The oblivion is the one who kills those who were slaughtered and murdered for the second time. We as a nation must never forget the Genocide of the Pontians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u71	Ms. Kefalidou from the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u72	Former Presidents of Parliament, friends and friends of the Pontian space you represent your associations, ladies and gentlemen, as a Pontian origin Member, once again I was chosen to speak with honor today on the day of memory of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Today, I would like us to express ourselves in a different way, beyond formality and beyond vacanologies. I would like this day of memory to talk about Pontian Hellenism, in particular, non-Poland colleagues and you know why? I'd like to hear the pain for the uprooting and the loss of my grandparents from other my compatriots. It would be of special interest and value for the speech about the Memorial Day of the Pontius Genocide to be heard by lips of a Stereo Elladi, a Cretan, a Thracian, a Peloponnese colleague. If we look into our environment and our surroundings of pontial origin, there are too many of our friends, our colleagues, who are acquainted with. I would like to hear about us from others, my compatriots, who embraced Pontian Hellenism, were congratulated, cooperated, joined with us. It would, I think, be a real national exercise against oblivion. It's known that any finger and cutting hurts the same. The national crackdown on the societies that feel the connecting power of the nation, the sense of their common history, their common course, their common destiny, their common destiny is one common to all of us, whether it is about the Hellenism of the Pontus, or about the population of the Calabrians, either about our Cypriot brothers, either about the slaughter of the Diastomos, about the Asia Minor disaster or even about what is happening in Palestine today. Maintaining the collective memory of every unspeakable national blow, such as what Hellenism accepted in the Pontto at the beginning of the 20th century, is the duty of every state, but also of every Greek citizen. It is an obligation for each of us to know and translate into their children and children what some, even today, consider it to be an accident of history, the uprooting of an entire people with inconceivable means. Ninety-nine years ago, almost a century ago, on 19 May 1919 the extinction of Hellenism in Pontto was tragically closed. An important part of Hellenism was exterminated, which after the dissolution of the Byzantine Empire lived in the north of Asia Minor, in the region of Pontou. One piece of us, which after the fall of the Bank in 1861 by the Ottomans, still kept the language alive, the mind, the Greek conscience, even though he lived cut off from the national body, there away from the country of Columbus in the eighth century BC. Century Bank, the Greek city of Xenophonta, as stated in the "Kyros Anavasi" project, away from Kerasounda and Samsounda, Sinopi, Argiroupolis, cities that were blowing from the Greek element. I would like to tell you that at the beginning of the 20th century, i.e. before the destruction, the Greeks of Pontou reached about seven hundred thousand. In the course of time they succeeded admirable things, but mostly they managed to coexist peacefully with the Turks, and prevailed both in economic and spiritual life. In 1860 Ponto there were a hundred schools. In 1919, there were thousands of four hundred, including the famous Bank's Treasury. It was not just schools, theatres, clubs, printers, publishing activity, newspapers, magazines. And yet, they were just these ancestors, those who sealed these places in their presence for millenniums who were slaughtered, uprooted, exterminated, exterminated in the most cruel ways, for two reasons: because they were Greeks and because they were Christians. We honor today, as a day of memory, the thousands of lives lost. We honor the persecution of thoughts, customs, and old traditions. This is the genocide, the violent disappearance of an entire people, who in this particular case were killed and displaced by the New Turks movement. His extermination took place not for something they did, but for what they were, an act of absolute horror in a civilized world that allowed humanity to become an indiscriminate crime. Every genocide is recorded in the criminal record of mankind, it embarrasses the entire civilized world that has not succeeded in preventing another catastrophe. The Minister spoke of 1928 and was absolutely right. This House passed through many hates and passions to identify, with a delay, in 1994, and with a recommendation by the then Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, on 19 May as a day of memory of Pontian Hellenism. But let me tell you: do also a self-criticism, Minister, for what is being heard in this House over the last three years. Reclaiming the recognition of genocide is a claim for peace. We honor the Moles genocide, as we honor the memory of every black page in our history. Even if typically, even incompletely, as this day exists and every day of memory reminding us of our past, we win the hope that we never again, ever let anyone, cause so much pain, so much pain, so much destruction in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Memory day, day of memory of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Really, isn't it a shame on this day to hear issues about Greek Turkish friendship? You could find another day. We're full of Greek-Turkish friendship! There are issues relating to Molecular Hellenism. Some of them are positive and some are negative. What I have to stress and express my personal thanks for the decision taken by the WTO at its initiative to send a letter to the joint events of all the Pontian clubs, to participate in the Pambodian Federation of Greece, the Panhellenic Federation of Pontian Associations, the Panhellenic Association of Greek Palinotians of the former Soviet Union. It seems that Pontian Hellenism, in fact, began learning and taught from history that the only way to ensure that what has happened does not happen again, is that there is above all unity, unity between us as Pontius and unity as Greeks, which, unfortunately, cannot be done in practice. We've heard wishing. Well, the backsides, well, the mustaches, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. However, they promote the bourgeois Hellenism alone. At some point, we must strongly claim what is worthy of and what is appropriate to Pontian Hellenism. There has been too much said. But there are many negative ones too. One of these is the inertia shown by all Greek governments regarding the recognition of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, Asia Minor and Thrace. Unfortunately, there are very few governments and foreign parliaments who have recognised the Pontian genocide. It must enter even higher on the Greek Government's agenda than it has to do with our foreign policy. We, as Golden Dawn, will support any matter that has to do with the recurring. We ask for the immediate restoration of the repatriated Greeks of the former Soviet Union about the cutting of their pensions, as well as our brothers and sisters of Northern Epirus. Those who come from the area of Thessaloniki will know very well two settlements, which are the last ones to be attached to the city of Thessaloniki. It's the settlement of Nicopolis and Evxinopolis. If you take a walk, you'll see that it's two settlements really ornaments. They were created and started twenty-five or thirty years ago by the repatriated Greeks who had come from the former Soviet Union and not Russians, as they call them, people who worked, sweated, bleeded, bleeded, after they have resurrected once again from their fatherlands and managed brick - brick to build and build properties. The inhabitants of these settlements a few years ago numbered the 12 thousand. Today, unfortunately, there are only three thousand left, because they were forced to emigrate because of the crisis. Of these, however, retired only 20% of the elderly have access to pensions and allowances. This is the care shown by the Greek state against the Pontian Hellenism. There have been too many negatives. One of the negative ones - as I said before - was Erdogan's visit with regard to Greek-Turkish friendship. We were the only country - a state that, while it had been shut down by the whole of Europe, we welcomed him with open arms, surrounded him around Greece and as a real sultan, made all the Greeks who welcomed him to bend. Greek-Turkish friendship never with any of the Turks! The result of this visit was the challenges our country is experiencing today. There have also been sick perceptions of what has been said at times about the Pontian issue, about the Asia Minor Destruction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I will not repeat for the crowds in Izmir for some of them in '21 who lived harmoniously with the Turks and rose up. I think that's completely graphic. The most unfortunate thing, however, is that there has been an attempt in recent years to identify Greek refugees from Asia Minor and the Pontou with the illegal immigrants who are coming today. We have absolutely nothing to do with it. We might have lived in Pontto, a mother home, but it was always Greece. Recently a Member of the Greek Parliament - from the coup d'état, in fact, I will not mention his name for good reasons - said that Western civilisation sent millions of children to the gas chambers and Western societies today are voting for the political offspring of those who did it. He even stated that there is no such record for the Islamics. Really? The massacre in Chios by the Turks in 1922, with fifty thousand dead, what was it? Greek-Turkish friendship and love? The destruction of the Fish in '24 with eighteen thousand slaughtered what was that? Greek-Turkish love? The destruction of Kassos in the same year with eight thousand dead from the Turks' hazzars, what was that? Greek-Turkish love? The Greek genocide of the Pontus, three hundred and fifty-three souls, what was it? We are full of Greek-Turkish friendship and love! The 1922 Izmir massacre with two hundred and sixty thousand dead and missing were Greek-Turkish friendship and love? The persecution, pillaging and rape in the city in '55 was Greek-Turkish friendship and love? Attilas in 1974, what was it? Result of Greek-Turkish friendship and love? In conclusion, I think it is advisable to tell you - and I think we should learn from those of us who are of the Pontian origin - that the latter has come up with a very serious issue, in my view, with a football team in the Komotini area of the PLO. It is a group based in Thyrolorio, a village 10 km from Komotini, founded in 1923 by exchanging populations and its name is due to the High Commissioner of the United Nations, Australian Charles Threllor. For the Pontius do not forget, they honor those who help them. So the Pontius, who settled there, built a new life, but did not want to forget the reasons that led them there. And that was the Pontian genocide. So the football team of this village, the PAE Pontian legend, decided to create an anniversary shirt with the phrase "I don't forget, I always honor". Some smart people - I would say - in this country have decided that these people do not have the right to forget or honor their ancestors. So the NCA banned the use of this shirt, because the moto it contains, they considered that it is going through a socio-political message. So in the first match of the championship they were forced to cover them with a pint. In the second match, however, next Sunday with an opponent of the Panthronic, the referee of the race, Mr. Drakides, thought that the image of the back side of the jersey, where there were two firefighters, again contains a socio-political message. This is what the Turks did during all these years of Pontius slavery, cannot forbid our war dance, the Serra, the Greek Football Federation through its local representatives. The referee closed the match card without becoming the match, so the two teams agreed to play friendly, but that was interrupted ten minutes after it began. The Apollo Pontou Group ban was issued on the same day as the decision on Apollo Pontou's shirt. But there has also been something close: another football team, the emblem of which I will present for the Minutes, the AU Xanthis, at the same time that the NGO Thrace and the NGO banned one Greek team from remembering its ancestors and honouring the indication of the message "I do not forget" to Pontius who lost their lives in genocide, has been signalled to Kemal's blouse at the time of death. Xanthi is a group of Muslim minority, composed of Greek citizens and players, who are written in the Greek Football Federation. On the team logo a watch is depicted and by coincidence it is stopped at 9:05', Kemal's death time. In Turkey this time is seen as sacred. The question, however, is that neither the local union nor the NCA considered that this logo contains a socio-political message, as was the case with the PPP. I am presenting it for the Minutes and I would ask your Government to arrange for this matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But because I have a different understanding of Greek-Turkish friendship, I have to send a message to Erdogan pasha. And if it is true that it is indeed of the bourgeois origin, that is to say, generosity, it will not be necessary for a translator. "If socks and grey mouses, that's what I'm saying to you. Put your legs on and on and on and on, and if so, have you sacrificed the foot between."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the Montesorian Schools. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Delis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we are honouring today, as every year, the memory of those who have been lost in the terrible genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou in the years of their violent and barbaric uproots from their ancestral homes along with other minorities. We are honoured but learnt together about the conditions and causes that led to this disaster. We are considering these tragic events, including the historical, political and social context in which they took place and interpret them from the point of view of the workers, the people's interests, so that younger generations of the Pontius can know and learn from them and youth as a whole. This is also a contribution to fighting against historical oblivion, against all those who are trying to make us forget who we are, where we come from and where we have to go. Finally, it is important to keep as valuable a deposit the best of our people's traditions and customs, in persuasiveness of all those who, in their fancy world civilization, want us to forget our own identity, to promote their own interests at the expense of the people. So, looking at the historical context of that time, it is, of course, finding differences with today, but it also discovers proportions. Imperialism then, in the early 20th century, young then, but greedy since then for the markets, has led mankind to World War I. At the same time, and in conditions of prolonged decomposition of the Ottoman Empire, the national urban states of the Turks, the Arabs and the Armenians in the Near East, as well as the southern Slavs in the Balkans, were formed and developed. The historical mixture was therefore explosive for the peoples of the region and was even more dangerous because of the choice of the Turkish bourgeoisie to force the process of forming the Turkish nation - state. Thus, the Greeks of Pontou had the Turkish bourgeoisie toward them, which, with the general blood flow, sought, of course, to displace, above all, the competitive capital for it. Unfortunately, however, they had proved - and then it did not seem very clearly - and the Greek bourgeoisie, which, with its political staff at the time, ruthlessly used the populations in Pontto as a diversion and as a means of pressure for its own competitive interests, but leaving them at the last critical moment in their luck. And those who paid for it were mainly poverty and the people. In this historical and geographical context, the planned persecutions of national minorities and of course the Greek Pontian population took place, as well as other populations in Thrace and Asia Minor. Did these urban classes, such as the Greek and Turkish and other powerful in the region, cease today? Not at all! We all see that our region, the south-eastern Mediterranean, is becoming the field of competition and the conflicts of many urban classes, with the outbreaks of war devastated countries such as Syria, and murdering peoples such as the State-killer of Israel. And today, like then, in the poems of the Pontius, the refugee caravans are on their way for their long and dangerous journey. And today, like then, their living conditions are terrible. And today, like then, refugees have the enemies of patriots, fascists and Nazis. And here the Pontius organizations and organizations must not give them any forgiveness or room to drop their poison, because the Pontius lived the refugee on their own flank. And today, like then, imperialist antagonisms pose deadly dangers to the peoples, which only the people themselves can escape with their struggle. In conclusion, we want to say once again that the organized mouse movement will find in the JRC a stable fellow in all his fair claim. The JRC will always be on the side of thousands of expatriates from the Soviet Union, who are still facing serious problems. We will continue with you to claim the support of the Greek state and the promotion of the cultural and intellectual heritage and activity of the Pontius from all generations. And, of course, we will continue everywhere to support the international recognition of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism. And we will always remember and always honor the Pontius and the Pontius, who have even given their lives for their high ideals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to welcome the President of Parliament and the representatives of the Pontian unions. Let me begin with a reference to the Minister's speech, Mr Kurubli. I too, Minister, have had the blessing of catching up with my grandparents and I had the chance - let me say this - to describe the facts and my grandfather and my grandmother, so it is not just a reference to historical events, but to be all this enriched with the feeling of the man who experienced them. I would like to say, before I begin my speech, Mr President, that to us Pontius, despite the fact that we have been through all this, it does not fit into hatred. We simply need - and that is why we are trying - to recognise the genocide which Turkey has committed. This recognition, you know, will be an act of reconciliation between Turkey and history, it will be a promise that in future this country will not commit similar crimes. It is something that it has done in the past and another country, for example, Germany, to the Jews. He apologized and humanity really felt a relief that this was a promise from a country, but also a promise from all countries that they would be careful and not commit similar crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, every year on this day, we are thinking of traveling in the past, a past, unfortunately, greedy, that those who have created it, who have shown that they have gone to history with atrocities. They rooted out one of the most blossoming and creative populations of Asia Minor, the Hellenism of the Pontou. Those who are causing today do not respect the international conditions and rules of international law and create problems for all their neighbours. Now that the real intentions of our neighbours have appeared, we need to gather more, recognizing the historical truth and render the true dimensions to the genocide of our ancestors. Those who are lately pseudo-historics do not recognize Genocide are confusing with their dangerous views on issues that have been resolved by the international community. That's how they give off sins to criminals. Today is not a normal day of memory. It is a historic day, a day that we need to bow to the strong resistance of our ancestors in the struggle for survival in the storm of war, the persecutions they have suffered, the unbearable pain, the unscrupulous sadness, the tragic crackdown experienced by the Greeks of the Pontou from 1914 to 1923 and for many more years. Certainly, there are no words to describe what the outdated Pontius Greeks suffered. However, as a minimum sign of honor through the temple of the Republic, the Greek Parliament, we bring them to our memory and we chalk the knee into the greatness of their souls. The Greek Parliament recognized Genocide in 1994 and voted to declare 19 May as a day of remembrance for the Genocide of the Greeks in Pontus. In 1998, the parliament voted unanimously to declare 14 September as the day of the National Remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. A selective part of Hellenism lived in the north of Asia Minor, in the region of Pontou, after the collapse of the Byzantine Empire. The desolation of the Bank in 1461 by the Ottomans did not alter their mind and Greek conscience. Their economic recovery was combined with their demographic and spiritual rise. In 1865 the Greeks of Pontus amounted to two hundred and sixty-five thousand souls, in 1880, in three hundred thirty thousand and in the early 20th century they touched the seven hundred thousand. In 1860 there were hundred schools in Pontto, while in 1919 they were counted in a thousand four hundred one, including the famous Banking Care. This is a confirmation of Greeks' philosophy on Pontto. In agricultural production and livestock they were distinguished with original products and unknown to the West and the rest of Greece. They were pioneers for their time in organic farming, as we call them today. Today, we are not simply honoring anonymous Greeks. We honor our grandparents and grandparents, our ancestors, who have “served Thermopylae” for centuries, but have not endured the atrocities of Kemal and the New Turks. The Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou is estimated to cost life to about three hundred and fifty - three thousand Greeks, half of the Greek population of Potou. It refers to massacres and displacement against Greek populations in the region of Pontou, which were carried out by the New Turks movement in the period 1914-1923. The fewer survivors originally fled to the upper Pontto, presently Russia and Ukraine, and after the 1922 Asia Minor Destroy in Greece. The evidence that exists today gives us the starting point to support a wider and necessary investigation, not only for the documentation of genocide which is proven, but for maintaining memory and avoidance in the future and other atrocities, wherever they come from. The Turkish genocide is annoying, which is why over time their leaderships strongly refuses the assumption of the extinction of the peoples who ripped out. Modern Turkey, which is responsible for many sufferings at the expense, mainly Christian populations, is systematically taking a hard stand and a sharp rhetoric. He does not admit the massacres and destruction he has given humanity. She's annoyed by historical reality. In researching the course of genocide within history, one stumbles on terrible historical events, in events that have blackened the course of the place, haunted his memories, led to death or refugee, thousands of people. Forced displacement of populations, division, ethnic differences, clearing of political and personal differences, with the blade. The conqueror is relentless. Refugee is often the preferred solution, although painful. The massacres complete the disaster. Genocide contains, from violent recruitment to pediatrics, group and personal executions, pillaging, murder, rape and refugee, very refugee. And finally, these horrible experiences are enrolled in collective consciousness, as some of the blackest pages, the bitterest experiences a people can ever experience. It is therefore appropriate to remind you that the historical justice of our ancestors has not been completed. Until the historical settlement of this issue, any suspicion of an alleged termination of the matter is harmful, as the people are right to say, 'from a culinary to a lot of lips'. The Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus is considered part of the single genocide of the Hellenism of the East, which was one of the first modern genocides. One issue that is omitted and is not mentioned, despite its gravity, is the fate of the Pontus Crusadian Monasteries. From the destructive hate of the New Turks and blind Islamic fanaticism, neither did the monasteries, which for centuries had been respected by pasades and Sultans, often giving many of them material and religious privileges. The monasteries, which have always been asylumed by persecuted Christians, are subjected to indiscriminate attacks on the part of the Turkish pockets, who, not only are plundering and destroying them, but are taking into the sacred places in atrocities and inhuman violence, which the Abbot of the Monastery of Vazelon, Panaretos, describes in detail with a sense of suffering. What the Sultan failed in five centuries, Kemal succeeded in five years. Ladies and gentlemen, the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou is a primary crime, which has nothing to do with warfare. The one who provokes genocide doesn't exterminate a team for something he did, but for something he is. In the case of the Greeks of the Pontus they were exterminated because they were Greek and Christians. This memory must be maintained, because today we hear the voices of the Turks saying that, allegedly, the Greeks burned Izmir or that they would resurrect us into the sea. Here, I am going to give a parentheses answer to the report they make about these compatriots, who are at the sea of Izmir. There is not a single soldier in the sea of Smyrna. The sea of Smyrna was full of innocent victims, women and children, because they knew how to beat the Turks. They did not attack - because they did not have the power, they did not have the courage - to face the Greek soldiers. They always attacked the civilian population. That's a reality. Of course, the question, even of resident islands in our country, is in their daily schedule. I close this speech with my grandfather's phrase - this is how my grandfather, the late priest - Savva Lazarides, has always made various references to what happened to Pontto. "Let's do a swimming pool, and I'll overthrow it and push it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to speak about the tragic events of the last few days in the Gaza Strip, an area which, unfortunately, has become addicted to violence, an area of total refusal of coexistence, where violence has emerged in a common memory that is passed by abstracts from generation to generation. A region where ours are permanently victims and witnesses and other permanent immortalities. However, reality is complex and violence is always more easily exercised in asymmetrical relationships. At the same time, chronic violence completely transforms the populations and their consciences. The millennium neighbors become enemies, addicted and irritated by the smell of blood, a blind trembling in the vicious circle of defiance of life. David Grossman, the highly awarded Israeli writer, who lost his son in some of the endless Arab-Israeli conflicts, had told us to the Commission about the Palestinian in the European Parliament "this tragedy will never end unless we love our children more than we hate our enemies." Ladies and gentlemen, the historic anniversarys, such as today, are nothing but codify the account of very specific events, such as, in this case, the Pontius Genocide. It is the creation and transfer to us today of the coded memory. But it is also an opportunity for our people's long history of national self-awareness. A process necessary, in which we must take care of the deformative lenses, which are sometimes imposed by feasibility or by the juncture. Because we have to admit that all nations are pushing into the construction of convenient historical myths, and in this context we all know that the modern Greek reality finds such examples. The Pontius genocide, however, does not belong to this circle of Greek historical novels, because the imprint of the trauma of the uprooting of Pontian Hellenism is evident in the refugee memory. In this sad modern odyssey of the Mouse Refugees, the counting of victims in absolute numbers is not the pretext. On such a day, we must think out of purpose, out of selfishness and counting, we must become the voice of all those who cannot speak. The purpose is obvious. The evacuation of war crimes, the evacuation of ethnic cleansing, only leads to new blood cycles. And it would be a real act of courage, on the part of Turkey, to recognise the crimes of that time, a historic period in which a new world, the modern world, emerged through the violent fall of the old multinational empires and the birth of a series of new nation states, a time when violently introduced modernism has made it impossible for the long and long-standing coexistence of Christians and Muslims. It is crucial to recognise the crimes committed in the name of the Ottoman Ottoman Empire and in the birth voyages of the new Turkish state. Crimes, of course, that were not limited to the Pontius, but also to the Microcites, the Thraces, the Armenians, the Assyrians and many other ethnic groups. This national reflection is an essential prerequisite for promoting true friendship and cooperation between peoples. In addition, the example of other peoples, with a greater national'me' than Turkey, who have made the recognition of such crimes point the way. "Get out of me the gray, if I engrave you, as the oldest Pontian earth," says a traditional song. I choose to interpret it as the story of ordinary people, the story behind the nanny's nanny's accounts, behind dances, holidays, special cuisine, all that constitutes our culture, in the broad sense. I cannot resist at this point the temptation to personal reference and, of course, to respond to the challenge of my dear friend Joys, that a Cretan speaks of the Pontius. Their particular Greekity, their so coherent identity, the Pontius holds it tightly - in honor - four generations after their uprooting and even though they spread to the ends of the world. And where they went, they stand out, despite what they did not embrace, not forget it, like the fate of the refugees, in general. And the Asia Minor refugees didn't hug, don't forget. But they did. And as few in the letters, in the arts, in the economy in general. This very special quality I appreciated, too, when I entered their wider family as Pontius out of stress, through our wife. Ladies and gentlemen, today the memories of lost homes are not justified by the dangerous illusion of their revocation. And today, as a day of memory and honour on the part of the Greek Parliament in the Pontian tragedy, means at the same time realising the need for the abandonment of international cynical practices, which deal with persons and without awareness of all peoples, practices that have to do with decisions on who must live and where and who must die, how must those who have been designated die and how must live and advance those who survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. Mr. Saridis from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Greek Parliament, representatives, dear friends of the Pambodian unions, ladies and gentlemen, many of them are the reasons why the Greeks should remember every year on 19 May the massacre of the Greeks of the Pontou. Learning, discussing, studying what exactly the word Genocide means, as our neighbors taught us. The most important reason, in my view, is precisely because this applies, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, also points out at every opportunity, namely that history should be a school and not a prison. I, personally, have no doubts, but the truth is that the Greeks have been increasingly asking lately about where the Turks are going, what they are looking for and what they are asking us to do. On the one hand, it seems to be wrong to prejudge their actions, relying solely on the lessons that the past offers. On the other hand, there must be no doubt - no doubt at all - as to what they are capable of doing if they are given the opportunity. So history, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be a school, and indeed very good and beneficial, when you look for it, not omens and signs, but evidence and proof of the quality and content of a people's culture. A people's culture, its traditions, define their actions. So in Turkey they have so far refused to confess their atrocities. In Turkey they refuse to admit the historical truth. In Turkey, they are taught that the massacres are normal for those unfaithful who do not recognise the "imperiality of the Turkish race". That's all on their own. We are getting enough to understand that there is no sincere remorse, no apologies. That is enough to understand what other peoples are suffering today in the hands of the Turks, such as the Kurds. The motto we now call Turkish culture, which counts about a hundred years of life, is nothing but the distorting Ottoman barbarism, which found its absolute expression in the design, organization and methodical and planned execution of the inhumane murder and displacement plan of hundreds of thousands of Greeks of Pontou. So it may not be reasonable, therefore, either, or according to Greek culture, as the Greek civilization itself has given birth to reason, to be sure of what the Turks will do in the future, but it would be absurd to expect from them something better than to show their real face, their brutal nature, their inhuman and inhuman barbarism. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons why we must ensure that our children learn our history without hiding them the horror our ancestors have experienced in the hands of the Turks. It's important that the Greek blood, which was spilled to Pontto, is not forgotten. Until the day Turkey admits the crimes it has committed, we cannot show her any confidence. Until the day when we will be able to sit next to the Turks, for the purpose of honoring the slaughtered Greeks of the Pontou, until the day that their shame will be reflected in their books, we must, by diligence, every May, each year gathering the Greeks and remembering who our ancestors were and what their fate was. The debt of the lessons and messages of that period, the debt of the political world, is the recognition of the Pontian Genocide by all. My debt, your debt, the debt of those who succeed us in these benches, those who succeed us in this Step, is never to stop historical memory from staying alive until the time of historical justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-six students and students and three teachers from the 1st High School of Skala Oropopos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to keep a minute's silence in the memory of the victims of the Pontian Genocide. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Memory eternity. The debate on the special session on the Memorandum of Memorial of the Greeks of the Pontos was concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-16-S1-commons.u84	With the consent of this House at 12.57' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 17 May 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
