ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-6-2018, the minutes of the PLTH meeting, on Saturday, 16 June 2018, with regard to the motion of censure against the Government submitted by the Chief of Civilian Responsibility Officer and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Parliamentary Group, pursuant to Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force on 15-06/2018: Criminal forensics concerning former Prime Ministers George Papandreou and Luke Papadimos and former Finance Minister Yiannis Varoufakis, Yiannis Stournaras and George Papaconstantinou, criminal forensics relating to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Christos Spirtzi and criminal law relating to the former Minister of Migration Policy Ioannis Mouzala. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would first like to inform you that five topical questions will be discussed at the sitting this evening. But let me first announce some of the topical questions which will not be discussed. The fifth question under number 1699/24-2018 (B') of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What the losses of the state of smuggling cigarettes" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member of Parliament's question. The second under number 1729/30-5-2018 topical question (B') by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forest capacity of the Greeks", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The ninth under number 1518-17-2018 topical question (B') by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The fourth question under number 4017/2-3-2018 (B') question from the circle of petitions and questions (B') of the Member of the Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The requirement of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) for the signature of the 3rd Memorandum loan contract by the supranational (Greek Company of Participation and Property SA), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Ekleidis Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. So we begin the debate with the third under number 5225-18-4-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions (B') by MP Elias of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukouou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The tax evasion cases that have been filed on the way from IOE to AIAE and the government responsibilities for the loss of revenue". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like you to give me a minute, without me counting my time, to make a point of order - a proposal to the Bureau, because, under the responsibility of the Bureau, the House must no longer benefit from Mr Tsakalotou's refusal to answer documents in our questions and when we turn them into an oral statement of embezzlement. Mr President, the question on which Mr Tsakalots says a coma I had submitted over the last three months was whether the government has undertaken commitments from our partners to give a guarantee through the excess fund to the ESM. The Minister, instead of admonishing to instruct his services to write three series of responses of the press "we will see", "we are looking into it" and when the bill came to answer at least "see the law, the article", he continues to declare a coma. In other words, it is a disrespectful and inappropriate attitude to Parliament, not to me. Please, my question with number 4017 that you have just announced that it will not be debated because it will not be debated because it is a violation of any parliamentary procedure. My question has been answered by the law that we voted yesterday, Law 4549, where under Article 109 my question was made. That is my point of order. I know you have no personal responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Comrade, I'm sorry. You have spent your protology to deal with the question, which you resurrect yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u5	No, Mr President, I do not repeat it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u6	It doesn't come automatically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u7	The discussion process, when the Minister declares a coma, is done automatically. I - as I have said - turned it into a timely question. From there on, when the Minister does not reply, he is automatically transferred to the next meeting. That is why I make this point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u8	All right, Mr. Comrade. It's been recorded. Develop your question. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u9	We are going to Mrs Papanatsiou now, who is more diligent with the Minister, her supervisor, because Mrs Papanatziou is answering, but he is late. That is why, because he did not answer my question from 18 April on cases that go and come between ILO and AID, I turned it into a timely one. Mrs Papanatsiou and her services responded lately. I have the answer here. The answer is not complete and it gives us the opportunity, since my question has not been answered, to discuss it. Minister, as I have pointed out, with Mr.4336/2015 you have taken all the cases from the ILO to take them to ADR and with Mr.4410/2016, by authorizing, transfer your decisions - I have the transport operations, as shown by your reply - twenty-five thousand nineteen cases from the thirty-eight thousand cases that the ILO had, according to journalistic information. I would remind you that the Secretary-General of the ILO, Mr Danes, by letter to the Prime Minister, said that this act of the government would result in these cases not being checked and that they should be cancelled and resigned. So today, from your answer, there is a gap of about six to seven thousand cases from the thirty-eight thousand cases, which we do not know on the basis of the evidence you have presented, and in particular is the question that needs answer: Of these twenty-five thousand nineteen cases that went to the AIA, today when we are talking about how many have been checked? Why do I say how many have been checked? Because it has been three years since the legislation of Law No.4336. The transposition of the decisions was delayed two and three years and I imagine that the time for the limitation is near, because these cases existed in 2015 and you do not answer how many have been checked. Consequently, my main question remains: How many of these decisions have been checked? If you can tell us what it has received and the Greek State will be better and how many are in danger of being registered. Thank you, Mr President. As you have seen, I did not circumvent time to finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u10	Clearly, you're right. Because it was due to a workload, it redefined automatically, so we will make sure it doesn't come back. Madam Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as Mr Koutsoukos said, the services have actually answered Mr Koutsoukos's question, just late or incomplete, as Mr Koutsoukos believes. First of all, I should like to refer to your question about the progress of transport cases in the ADP. I would like to say that from your own governments we inherited control mechanisms with a huge number of accumulated cases - they were years-old cases - and a number of staff retired on a one-by-five basis, so that the services are narrowed under the unbearable burden of responsibility. However, our main priority was to carry out tax controls and investigations in all directions. Starting now for the transfer of cases, with Law No.4336/2015, a number of commitments have been incorporated into our national law, including the concentration of tax and customs matters in the ADP. This is how a transfer race from the ILO to the ADC of cases begins. As the Ministry of Finance directly, we issued the ministerial decision on the procedure and the arrangements for transferring the cases. A committee was set up, a working group on the coordination of services, the resolution of specific issues, the follow-up of progress and the transfer of cases. We have ensured completeness of the files. It gave clear instructions to the services for the smooth and regular conduct of the procedure. This process of returning cases has been completed with the exception of minimum cases, which are currently still in the ILO and whose accreditation act is expected very soon. The aim was to prevent and suppress tax evasion phenomena wherever they occur, in order to serve the interests of the public, which we all want. I'm going to refer to the D.A.'s orders. In the cases brought by the IMO to the AIA, it was not the public Prosecutor's orders. Prosecutors were returned to see how they will operate further. Reaching the cases now with the ADP, we start choosing the cases to be checked and checked. Cases under Article 26 of the CVT have been examined, on the basis of risk analysis criteria, data from internal and external sources of information and also some other criteria laid down by the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority and not made public. In a few days' time, Mr. Pitsilis will be in Parliament for the AACC's report on parliamentary control. It can further provide the answers to carry out the checks. It is obvious, of course, that the limitation period of the offence being investigated is also considered when prioritising the cases. With regard to the ILO, the ILO remains a strong control mechanism, with responsibility for combating global economic crime. At the moment it is conducting a thousand six hundred twenty-four checks. Like, of course, all the audit services, the IAEA in its powers if it finds that any infringement of tax or customs legislation is in breach of all the necessary steps to inform the competent authorities. In fact, I will mention an example of a recent success of the ILO, where in control within its competence it found fraud against the interests of the European Union and Greece by circumventing the customs regime 42. The case was brought to the attention of the prosecutor, while the AAC services are responsible for administrative sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u12	Madam Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u13	One more sentence, I'll say the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u14	Because we've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u15	Accordingly, in the case of the customs authorities, where an infringement of the legislation has occurred, the Special Secretariat of the ILO has been requested and, in conclusion, we can say here that the key to the success of the inspection action is fruitful and effective cooperation between the audit authorities. Because I have circumvented time, I will refer to the prosecutors in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, before we disagree on the substance of the policy, at least let us agree on the figures. Based on the accounts, which I have made from your replies and the reports of the ADP, the cases described are thirty-one thousand four hundred eighty-eight. Of the thirty-eight thousand who were saying the articles at the time - that you abolished the ILO and allowed them to be transferred to the ILO - we are missing around six to seven thousand cases. I don't know the exact number. You tell us. You mentioned that there is little left. Thousands don't think it's too little. If I'm wrong, I want you to deny me. Otherwise, I'm going to have to ask for specific numbers of documents. I would like - please very much - to have fun with my concern that no cases have been lost on the road. Now we are actually going to do this, Madam Minister, which, unfortunately, you have not answered. For the twenty-five thousand nineteen cases, which have been carried over two years to the AIA, the first fifteen thousand to two-8-2017 and the last two thousand four hundred forty-three on 11-1-2018, that is, about five months ago, you told us that it was on the basis of the prioritisation and criteria of the APA. You are not telling us how many thousands have been prioritised, how many checks have been ordered and what the prospect of the checks being completed is. I would remind you that, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, the limitation is now five years old. If we consider that these were in the hands of the ILO in 2015, so the taxable material is mentioned at an earlier time, the limitation period is nearing. And the question is who will be responsible. Now you elegantly referred it to Mr. Pittsili, who's coming here to let us know. So we'll ask Mr. Pittsili. But Mr Pittsili's political leader is not allowed to answer unless you think he is another state. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that on the basis of the ADA report, the investigations of cases on the Lagard lists, transfers, offshore, Borgians and so on are very few, two hundred and fifty three, forty-two, one thousand forty-seven and three hundred and twenty-three respectively, and the amounts established are EUR 927 million and only EUR 117 million. I tell you, who, through Mr Nicoludis and the Finance Ministers at that time, told us that you would collect at least EUR 2 billion from the lists. And I'm not talking about your earlier statements that you said you'd face public debt with the lists. I appreciate, on the basis of the information you have given me and the information I have given, that, among the cases that are still pending or are in danger of being registered, there are cases of major tax interest, whether those are those on lists or others that were initially identified by the ILO. And because the anguish of the Greek citizen - who pays dearly to get out of the memorials and will also pay by cutting pensions and reducing duty-free further - is too great and we cannot afford to have a political tolerance, but you too, in any process of losing income, are questions hard and inexorable. Of the twenty-five thousand previously mentioned and thirty-one thousand, if we add those that have been held by the ILO and those that have been returned to the financial prosecutors, only a thousand four hundred and seventy-four cases have been checked. That's a shame. If I'm wrong - I repeat - you tell me about the evidence. But my bill proves that. We therefore expect an answer to the substance: How many have been checked, how many will be checked and how will we prevent the risk of limitation? If you want, you answer your dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u19	First of all, we have all the same concern and anxiety. We do not want a case to be dropped, which will bring revenue to the State. Since you have also referred to the public prosecutors and also to the lists, I would like to say here that with regard to the limitations of cases relating to foreign transfers, this has been a case checked by the then Secretary-General of Public Revenue, Mr Theocharis, and not at the request of the relevant AIA. We already have some results, which I can give you. It was a thousand and twenty-four cases. The audit has been completed in eight hundred and thirty-four cases, and the amounts established are about 366 million euros. Also, with regard to cases that have to do with public prosecutors, these are in the new Department of Economic Crime Investigations - which you are asking about whether the cases are coming back, after you raised this issue in your timely question - this new agency set up in the Ministry of Finance and set up under the guidance and supervision of the financial prosecutor. In this respect, therefore, all cases transferred to ADP were repaid, with the exception of a thousand three hundred public prosecutor orders at their final stage, with a view to remaining in ADP for inspection. These orders have been prioritised or are at a very advanced stage, i.e. a request for information has been issued to the taxpayer in order to avoid any misfortune - interruption of investigations into cases already in progress, resulting in the fragmentation of human resources - or any conciliation between auditors and taxpayers, for example, the right to continue or not of the investigation, following a request for information. We believe that none of the cases have been filed. New data will also be provided for the committee responsible for the inspection of the AACC, which you are a member of. There you will be able to get the most information from the commander of ADP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you to the Minister and to the consistency of time. We continue with four topical questions that will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. We begin with the first question under number 5175-17-2018 in the circle of petitions and questions (B' in the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 11 June 2018), by the fourth Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, Mr. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Health, on "Sales of medicines and internationally controlled substances on the Internet". Mr President, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u21	Minister, the annual report of the UN International Commission on Drug Control, which was announced by the latest annual report from the CEDEFOP, which I always read because it is extremely interesting. I wonder why I had to make it up to time and come to the House and you haven't answered me this long. So in the last report, which I am sure you have read, there are signs and monsters about illegal - within introductorys - online pharmacies. In particular, it is said in the Committee's report, among other things, that ‘Sometimes the sale of online medicines is made illegally, as some online pharmacies operate without permission and have medicinal products containing drugs and psychotropic substances, without any prescription’. As you know, because you're a doctor, there's a series of opioid-owned substances, another series of substances that are in psychotropic drugs, and even barbiturates. Chemicals used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances are also sold online. Furthermore, according to the report, the committee has issued guidelines to prevent the illicit sale of internationally controlled substances via the Internet to help governments around the world deal with this phenomenon. In addition to the Committee's directives, however, the report states that the European Union has also taken steps to address the problem of the existence of illegal internet pharmacy.' So, on the basis of all this, I would like to ask you: Firstly, what measures have you taken to protect the entire population of the country from the illegal sale of medicines and internationally controlled substances on the Internet. Secondly, if you have calculated the amount of the annual turnover from the illegal sales of these'medicine' products. Thirdly, what are the guidelines for preventing the illicit sale of these internationally controlled substances via the Internet and whether our country follows them. Finally, if Greece is to comply with the practice followed in European Union countries, which concerns the emergence of a common European logo on the websites of electronic pharmacies, which must indicate which country is home to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u23	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. I think that it raises an important public health problem, which of course does not only concern our country. It's an international problem. Unfortunately, the trafficking in drugs, food supplements, as well as illegal psychotropic and drug-related substances is increasing online. Indeed, there is also a need for vigilance in each country's control and repressive services, as well as international coordination and cooperation in order to address this problem. I think we need, first of all, to inform the public. Here we also have a responsibility, which we have the supervision of state bodies, such as the EOF, the EEAS, but also the scientific community and health professionals and their scientific and trade unions, to have a systematic effort to inform people that it is safe to take its medicines from certified disposal sites only, such as private pharmacies, ECY pharmacies, hospital pharmacies. I think that this is very important, namely a security culture in the administration of medicines only by people who have scientific competence, knowledge and certification. The second is the question of international cooperation. Since the problem has been identified, a working party has indeed been set up at European Union level. All twenty-eight States participate. Our country is represented by the EEO. This also includes the prosecution authorities of each country, namely the police and customs authorities, the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, and INTERPOL and EUROPOL. There is therefore an attempt by means of this cooperation to have a monitoring of the problem and an information exchange system, so that, when an illegal online pharmacy is found to provide such preparations, the authorities can be notified and appropriate prevention intervention. Here, in our country, I think that an effort has been made to cooperate with the Greek prosecution authorities, in particular with the Prosecution of an Electronic Crime of the GATT, and when there is evidence that such pages work, these pages go down. Of course, we cannot interfere on websites that have their headquarters elsewhere. But there, through this cooperation I told you before, we are making an effort to prevent it. I think there is a good example at this time in the country of good cooperation between the EOF and the economic police which has led to the dismantling of this illegal export circuit of this mafia of anticancer medicines. Obviously, this legislative provision by L.4316/2014 is needed for the possibility of electronic pharmacy, but on the strict condition that there is a natural pharmacy and pharmacist that is responsible for handling these medicines online. We need certification and the adoption of a common ministerial decision that has been delayed, but we will try to launch it in the next period. I think that with this combination of interventions one can say that we have better supervision of the problem. The specific report to which you have referred, the Special Committee of the UN, must now be assessed and given policy guidelines by the Committee on Planning and Coordination on Relief, which is now under reorganisation, because the chairman's term of office has expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u25	Minister, I didn't expect to have another answer because you're a doctor. I mean, I didn't expect another answer, because the problem you recognized and I heard some interesting things about dealing with it. I must tell you that, beyond the report, I was impressed by the headlines of the newspaper "NATIONOS" by a serious journalist, Mr Kalafatis, a few days ago, where there is another subject other than drugs. They are the so - called growth hormones and all these anabolics, which so far have been taken by various trainers and gave them to children in the gym. Now, you know you don't need it anymore. Here a twelve-year-old kid knows and enters the websites on his own, without either mother or father getting hampered. So this is just as important. The paper shows it and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. I saw a pharmacy that disappeared. The Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association had taken it. He was selling essential oils for parking, for Alzheimer's, and I don't know what else. That was what he was advertising, because you and I, as doctors, know that was nonsense. So I called the President of the Panhellenic Association today and told him 'What were you doing with this investigation?' He says to me, "Sure he leaked that there was going to be an investigation, and when we went to the so-called address, we found a sealed empty office"! So the problem is multiple. I'm glad you said that you really needed coordination. I would like to add two more things to you. This - within or out of introductory - sinful CIABLE use it now to make a big campaign, without making money, in order to inform people, especially parents, but also new children, because apart from psychotropics, barbiturates and all that - children don't take these - children take the anabolics, to make a better body, as they think. So we need an orderly lasting campaign to be briefed. A second idea I would like to give you is this: I think that the revision of the new Criminal Code is the end of the day. Should there be a special article, in which the offence, i.e. the illegal pharmacy, be classified as proprietary and the penalty being too strict? I say this because I fear that with the current Criminal Code - I am not sure, I am not a lawyer, I do not know him from outside the Criminal Code - it will probably be an offence of a defect and, as we all know, we go from deferral to deferral, five years will pass, and even if it is tried, a two-year prisoner is put down, they pay it and 'not a cat'. The money they collect is much more. Indeed - I do not know if you have an image, it is perhaps the work of the Ministry of Health, unless you have been informed by the Ministry of Finance - I would like to know how much these pharmacy is. In other words, we don't get the illegal cigarettes, the illegal fuel, the illegal drinks, we now have the type of illegality. I give you the document I told you about. [[At this point Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Vice-President of Parliament, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u27	Obviously, we cannot have a picture of an illegal activity. There may be estimates of how much this turnover might be, but I really don't have to keep them in mind. I think your comments are generally in the right direction. It is likely that there is indeed a need for stricter legislation. We can see that with the Justice Department. I, too, think that putting people's health at risk for speculation is a serious offence and a signal must be given that the state does not tolerate such behaviour. The issue of the use of anabolics, the availability of anabolics through such channels to young mainly athletes, etc., is a very important issue. I think we need a strengthening of culture around athletics. Now we are about to institutionalise the athletic specialty on a proposal from the ERCY. We are in cooperation at this time with the General Secretariat of Sports to proceed with the "Sports Card" and the systematic monitoring of people involved in sport, whether in mass sport or in sport. I think this will help to have scientific and medical supervision, which can intervene in time when behaviours and problems are identified, which can cause great side effects on these people. I absolutely agree that we need information. Now, who's gonna do it is another matter. I said that we are responsible for the state and the Ministry of Health, but also for the scientific community, for trying to consolidate the culture of citizens that safe administration of medicines can only be done from places that are certified and qualified, such as pharmacies, health structures, etc. That is why I think we have made a very great effort. You remember that there was a pressure to leave the non-prescribed drugs from the pharmacy and to go to the supermarkets and other stores. We made a very big effort in this. There was a pressure from the institutions on the logic of market liberalisation, competition and so on. We have managed by a recommendation from the EOF with scientific data, essentially to contain 87% of non-prescribed medicines. Let us say that for reasons of public health it must remain and be made available exclusively from pharmacy. Only one 13% we know very well - I'm not talking about simple painkillers, etc. - that they were already out of the pharmacy. These too, on condition, with special packages, with a few pills, etc., which are the so-called GENEFA, the General Disposal Medicines, can also be placed out of the pharmacy. In fact, the fact is that there was not even an investment interest. So, in practice, all the unprescribed medications, just because we put strict security controls, were left in the pharmacy. I think that's a mechanism for not having these side effects. Anyway, the problem with psychotropic substances, with anabolic substances, with drugs, which are smuggled illegally, is serious and has an international dimension. The effort we are going to make will be to monitor it as long as we can and work with the other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the profitable employment of dependent members of the Members of the Diplomatic Missions or Consular Authorities". Before we move on, let me announce a number of topical and urgent questions. The first, with number 1800/12-2018, top-circuit question (A' of the Topical Questions Bulletin of 18 June 2018) by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Mandas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Global Blood Day and National Center for Hepatitism (ECA)", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The first one under number 1805/12-2018, an up-to-date second-cycle question (A' of the Topical Questions Card of 18 June 2018) by MP Arta of the New Republic, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Arta", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr. Paul Paul Pavaki, due to a workload. The first one under number 1754/5-6-2018, a second-cycle question (B') of the topical question bulletin of 11 June 2018) by MP Evros of the New Republic, Mr Anastassios (Tasos) Treasury to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dumos Hospital presupposes its immunity by staff and equipment", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The second question under number 3195/5-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions (B') of the Topical Questions Card of 11 June 2018) by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centers with medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. We continue the debate with the fourth under No 1747/5-6-2018 topical question (B' of the topical and urgent question issue dated 11 June 2018) of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No C-globulin preparations". Mr President, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. The question, as you have said, concerns the lack of globulin preparations, a problem which has arisen some two months ago. It concerns both hospital pharmacies, which administer this medicine to patients, as well as ECYPH pharmacies, who have the specific formulation in patients respectively. Of course, the question refers to a specific example in the General State of Athens "C. Genitals, where patients came to undergo this treatment with gamma-globulin. Of course, their treatment stopped due to the lack of the medicine. That was, at least, the case when the question was asked. Why, in passing, three postponements have taken place in the debate on this timely question. Anyway, it's what we're talking about, it's too late than ever. Therefore, the problem created by the lack of this formula - which, as I said, is not only about the Gennamas, the State of Athens, but also about other hospitals in the country - of course has had and has developed unfavourable to the health of patients. It's a medicine, a preparation that enhances the immune system. They receive it in patients with several diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, blood diseases and other chronic diseases, autoimmune, etc. Therefore, the question to the Ministry of Health is what action will be taken to ensure that the pharmacies of either hospitals or of the EEAS are immediately supplied with these preparations, in order for patients to continue their treatment uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u31	My dear colleague, we have obviously been responsible for a delay in answering this question, and this delay largely makes it unpopular today, in the sense that this existing problem was created and was due to a reduced availability of this very important and critical for several sensitive categories of patients. There was no possibility of introducing the necessary quantities into Greece because their production had a problem in Europe because there was a shortage internationally and possibly because of some speculative games. We learn that China has bought a large stock from the European market. In any case, there was a great difficulty both in our country and in other European countries. The truth is, in recent years, steps have been taken to rehabilitate and normalize supply. There were problems in some hospitals because this concerns, as you well know, immunocompromised patients, patients with haematological diseases or neurological syndromes or patients with hypogamagloglobinaemia and are treated in ITH, etc. I would like to make it clear that this lack was not due to a market failure, i.e. a lack of credit, nor, of course, to an impulse to the competent authorities of the State. There was barely a continuous and racing effort from both the EOF, but also from the IFET, the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology, which in recent years has been operating as an approximate state pharmacopoeia. Where companies importing a medicinal product in the country cannot or is not interested in importing it, IFET orders from the international market and strives to meet needs. There was this intervention. I have been informed that, for example, over a thousand two hundred pistols have been bought through the IFET. However, the information I have is that there is an increasing trend in the stack that the other three - four pharmaceutical companies involved in the blood derivatives field are carrying out. A blood derivative is immunoglobulins. This is why it is a special medicine, which also has difficulties producing quality in each batch produced, etc. There have therefore been these problems. I think we're in a phased recovery phase. However, because I have a report from all the hospitals in Athens, I can tell you that the Ministry of Health has also been directed, but there has also been an attempt by doctors, the administrations of hospitals and pharmacy to manage this limited stock in a rational way and I think that, in general, there has been no real impact on the health of the people who needed it and on the smooth continuation of their treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u33	Undoubtedly these preparations are among the most effective organic products, with a relatively small proportion of adverse effects, of course, in relation to the benefit. Also on clear indications are irreplaceable treatment for both substitution, i.e. immunotherapy and immunomodulating, but also prophylaxis of infections and other diseases. We don't have to go into any further reports on this part. Minister, did you talk about a gradual restoration - until when then? When do you demarcate it? - and that the pharmacopoeia will still function by meeting the needs of the sick, the patients, and the new incidents that arise in the course. You referred to the fact that there were problems in the company. But now, look, what does it show up? It immediately emerges - immediately what you said speculation - mention China and so on. - that, as long as these preparations and the medicine are a commodity in this system, the capitalist we live, of course, companies will look at how to increase their profits, by writing the needs of peoples, patients, peoples, etc., in order to obtain as much profit as possible. Of course, people may also sacrifice lives. And it doesn't burn them! Thirdly, you said that you were making an effort, in the context of these shortcomings, which were created, in a more rational manner. See now: the rational way and distribution was for the patient to get 30% of the dose. That's what happened. I don't know if it's yet, because it's probably going to happen in some hospitals, which is where patients go and pour them out, take the medicine. Therefore, 30% of a one-dose complete dose, one treatment of a certain day, was shared or shared in two and three patients. Of course, there are problems and there have been exacerbations in the years - because we are talking about chronic problems - the exacerbation of the symptoms on the basis of the chronic diseases faced by patients, as well as a number of patients who have experienced a deterioration in these symptoms, with what this means for their health, for their psychology, etc. There are also "complaints" or reports, if you like, that whoever had the money was able to get them from the private sector, from the private pharmacies. So here's what comes out of this issue, with the lack of them, that in the face of the profitability of this barbaric, capitalist system, monopolies, medicines, in this case, they are not hesitant at all to trample the lives of patients in order to get their profits. Because you also referred to the IFET, we say first of all, for example, why is there not a state pharmaceutical industry, which has, produced and supplied the medicines in the world, free of charge to our people, like gamma-globin, which is a preparation derived from a number of blood procedures? Now is not the time to expand. So here's the thing. Why should Greece, our country, our people, the patients by extension, not only to the specific, but also to the whole, to the pharmaceutical companies and their interests and toys that they play?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u35	That's a lot of talk now. I made it clear that this was an international problem, not just for our country. There were large countries, such as Romania, that made agonizing calls in our own country if we have stock to supply them. I agree with the policy - let me say - that the global drug market is precisely because it embodies profit, etc., that has been proven - it cannot function in terms of social responsibility and in terms of real health needs for citizens of all countries and there are inequalities in access to modern medicines and many times even simple medicines. So international regulation is also needed, especially at European level, but also at country level. That is why there are such institutions, such as the IFET, which is a last resort body, which can intervene in balance, when there are deficiencies or, respectively, the EFF can monitor. Indeed, at this time in Europe, creation is being discussed and there is the idea - because the issue of shortages is a major problem for all countries, for various reasons, including speculators, because of illegal exports, etc. - a Deficiency Observatory, which will operate at European Union level, so that there can be a more timely diagnosis of the deficiencies that will arise and transnational cooperation and joint action, at least in certain critical medicinal products such as blood derivatives, vaccines, etc., and inappropriate demand. Full restoration, we hope, will be there soon. I can't predict that. However, we have a clear normalization. Already a Greek company, which had planned to import large quantities since autumn, brought this back earlier, and I think that in July we will have a greater proficiency on the market. As far as the services we are supervising are concerned, we have given the direction of monitoring the problem very systematically. The plan of the state pharmaceutical industry to discuss it, as you want, at some point, what are the real possibilities and what are the conditions of such ambitious intervention, but I think the current landscape in the pharmaceutical market really requires enhanced supervision on the part of the state and transnational cooperation. One of these - I have mentioned several times - is the so-called 'valetta initiative'. We will have the honour in mid-July of holding a meeting here from ten countries, in which Greece is also involved, which we are trying to have a common line and to negotiate with the large affordable companies, and also to deal with such deficiencies at times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue I will announce some further questions that will not be discussed because of the impediments of the relevant ministers. The first one under number 1744/5-6-2018, first-cycle question (B') of the topical question bulletin of 11 June 2018) by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theophiles to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Reopening of Stage of Minors of Kosanis", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kononis, because he will be on a scheduled visit to the Court of Justice of Edessa. The second one under number 1743/4-6-2018, the first-cycle question (B) of the topical and urgent question bulletin of 11 June 2018) of the MP Drama of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Charulas (Haras) Headquarters to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "During grace to criminal sentences, in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kononis, because he will be on a scheduled visit to the Court of Justice of Edessa. Also, the third under number 1732/30-5-2018 topical question (B') of the Topical Questions Card of 11 June 2018 by MP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "About the criminals and nationally harmful behaviours of the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Yiannis Boutaris", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kontonis, because he will be on a scheduled visit to the Grand Court of Edessa. We shall now proceed to the next time-consuming question to be discussed. It is the second under number 1804/12-2018, the first-cycle question (A) of the topical question bulletin of 18 June 2018) by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CIFs setting out the head of the Ministry of Health". Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we are debating today a timely question which was tabled for the first time about three months ago. However, it still remains as timely today, with what this does, of course, mean for the health of our country's seropositives, but also for public health in general. By means of official documents submitted in the minutes of the Parliament, I have revealed that, although since 2016 and 2017, CICPN is within the public accounting system and is therefore prohibited from making direct assignments, the management of the agency received in 2016, without even paying, by way of direct delegation, reagents for the detection of the HIV/AIDS virus by the company ‘SIEMENS’. In fact, the company in question has appealed to justice, i.e. the courts, and has filed a claim for compensation. The question that arises, apart from the fact that it was directly awarded by the CEDEFOP that is not provided for under the law, is that your Government cancelled through CEDEFOP, in June 1915, the only open international competition that was opened in 2012 and was in the process of completion. Even the objections of the Ice Arena had been discussed. You know, here in addition to the ethical issue clearly arises, there is the most serious issue of dealing with the HIV virus. In other words, the seropositive associations themselves, but also the doctors who take care of them, report to you in 2016, 2017, 2018 - I will present them all together in the Minutes - for the tragic consequences that your policy has. I will also present to you the shocking statement by the President of the Society for the Study and Management of AIDS, Mr. Lazana, who, in desperation in November 2017, stated that "we are doing the magicians, precisely because of the lack of reagents for the treatment of HIV/AIDS". So something's wrong, Minister, at the CDC. Unless you tell us that all the seropositives are now New Democracy and are trying to stand up to you. I'm having some fun of the impressions. They say, Mr Minister, in their last statement - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes - that you are constantly making promises that something will be done, but that is not the case. I therefore ask to close: firstly, for what reasons, although prohibited by the public accounting, CCPN was granted by indirect, direct delegation by SIEMENS, reagents for HIV in 2016, without having that possibility. Has it been received in 2017? Why has a new open competition not yet been opened by the CEDEFOP, despite the establishment of the General Accounting Office of the State, which had given a deadline by December 2016? Are there also companies other than ‘SIEMENS’ trying by means of a legal procedure to take their debts from the ERIC? If so, what are these and what amount does all the debts amount to? Finally, which is most important, how will you deal with the problem with the delay in carrying out the necessary tests for seropositive patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u39	My dear colleague, the question has two legs. I am a little glad that the text of your question does not refer to the real problem of controlling the viral load of seropositives and therefore to a public health problem. In the text of your question, I repeat, there is no mention of this at all. This is the one to which I will tell you what we have started. And there is also the other issue that you are trying to create a sense of some opaque and problematic management that has been made by CEDEFOP over our days, which, in my opinion, is based on absolutely unnoticed evidence, which - you know so well - has been given to you by people who are currently indicted for felony acts, people from the CEDEFOP service in which they have been persecuted for misappropriation of public documents. You know that a few days ago this persecution was carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u40	You're talking about the twenty-two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u41	Of course, the persecution which has been persecuted against seven people, including people who are involved in the workers' union and who have been trying to create a diversion in public opinion that has begun to understand that this is where we were dealing with an outbreak of lawlessness and corruption, which is now being investigated by justice and, of course, the obligation of the state is to rebuild it institutionally and I will say for that too. The real problem, then, is what? It is that due to a major change that took place at the disposal of the CERNOS, due to its entry into the public accounting system, since 2016 it has been able, as in the past, to make certain provisions more flexible. By 2016, what was done was that the reagents were taken by the CDC and gave them to the reference laboratories, which did the control of the viral load, and that was where the answers to people were given. This - and rightly so, in my view - has been chosen to stop happening. The idea is that CEDEFOP will compensate for exams that will be carried out by public laboratories either at the university or other public institutions in the country, hospitals, university schools, medical schools, etc. and will no longer order the reagents themselves to supply them. There's been an effort. It did not specifically run out here in Athens, where there is a large volume of seropositives. Some contracts have been concluded with the three - four regional workshops dealing with the subject. The solution we have given - because there was a problem and the seropositive ones were right, as were the people who deal with infections, such as Mr Lazanas, with whom we have been discussing several times and with the 'Theological PHONE', the seropositive association - and I think that this is currently exacerbating the problem: the EOPY will be associated with private certified laboratories. In any case, this examination is costly and can be compensated by the EEAS. We have made a consultation between the Special Infections Units and the CEDEFOP and the EEAO and the large private centres, which have this possibility and certification, to anonymise the dispatch of the sample. In other words, the seropositive is not going to go by his name, but there will be a code, the well-known unique code, by which specialists are monitored and recorded in CEDEFOP files. So the sample will be sent with a code, anonymized, the laboratory will give the answer, it will be repaid by the EOPYY and the best monitoring of the chronic patient will be done. This, I think, also ensures the restoration of the problem actually created for a period of two years, which had not been controlled by the viral load.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u42	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u43	I'm done. We will also have a restoration to this problem, but also respect and discrimination, with the sensitivity that must exist for the anonymous management of these people. That's the point. I think it has been dealt with to a great extent. There is now a technical piece left to be implemented through HICP, how to contact the prescribing system, etc. And I think in the next few days it'll start to work. The effort made by CEDEFOP is, in cooperation with the special public laboratories, to gain the opportunity to make the supplies of the reagents themselves and the CEDEFOP simply to buy from them services against the examinations they will provide.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u45	Minister, I do not know whether you are listening today to the seropositive really will feel reassured. I think you've probably done the opposite. So you put two legs in. I'm both going to try to give you an answer. First of all, you did not tell me exactly why the 2012 competition, which was finished, with technical specifications, with updated prices, was abolished. Secondly, I understand from what you said to me, that you do not intend to hold an international competition. But here you should discuss this with the State Accounting Office, which told you that you are obliged to conduct an international competition. You, if I understand correctly, what you intend to do has nothing to do with an international competition. And after all, I heard a wish, 'we will do, we will do'. But here, there are thousands of tests waiting, thousands of people who have been waiting for months, and have not been able to do their examinations so that they can see exactly how and what treatment they should follow. I would therefore like something more specific, a timetable if nothing else. With regard to the second part, I heard you talk about the sinful CEDEFOP, for the twenty-two. I imagine you were talking about Mr. Adoni Georgiadis. You didn't say the name, but you meant him. First of all, we must say that in relation to the twenty-two, it is already being carried out at the moment when we are talking about justice that this procedure has become legal by Mrs Papaspyrous. Let me say that Ms. Papaspyrou is the General Inspector of Public Administration and the foster mother of Mr. Janakopoulos. I wonder, however, here the day before yesterday - and we did not say anything about that - you voted for an amendment of 1619/249, which, through it, over eight hundred - your own children! - will be recruited in many categories - doctors, rescuers - and, in fact, without involvement of the ADP, in a process that is really for the eyes of the world, since in previous recruitments the relevant tables had been re-issued many times in such a way as to recruit your own people rather than others. And now, you come to tell us about twenty-two recruitments involving people who have worked for a few months to a year and all the money is for a hundred seventy thousand euros when we talk about millions. Not to mention the files of hundreds of doctors and nurses involved by Mr. Paulakis and his associate in violation of every law. There is already a case-file - prosecution for the three associates of the Minister. As for him, there's a case file that's come to Parliament. And because we're talking about CEDEFOP, you're giving me the opportunity to reveal today - I wouldn't do it, but you guys were on the personal track - another service of a relative minister. I provide you with documents proving that the current State Secretary for Education, Mr. Jufi, has already arranged her sister at CEDEFOP offices in 2016, with a total salary and off-balance sheet. I don't know what you have to say about it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can I tell you something? In a timely question today we have managed to make three names. One is the stepmother of Mr.Janakopoulou, Public Administration Inspector. The other one is Mrs. Jufi's sister, an expensive anesthesiologist on the fourth floor of the ERIC. He's sitting. He's not in a hospital. You didn't make her do a job for a woman. The third is the wife of Mr Flavouraris, who is the president of the CEDEFOP, who has annulled this competition. How coincidence it may be, within one timely, to find three first - grade ministers! Is that the moral advantage? I shall conclude by saying this: I have a document - I shall present it to you - where it says that there are sixteen open documents concerning Mr Paulakis and his colleagues. It's sixteen open procedures! And you come to tell us about twenty-two people who worked for eight months and took a hundred thousand euros together for as long as they worked. If that's what you think of as a moral advantage, I have nothing more to say. We have three first-degree relatives in a timely question! The conclusions of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I did not expect this to happen. This is called political covetousness. CEDEFOP was the epitome of plausibility and corruption in the health system. These people, for over 20 years, have been on the political cover of the PASOK and New Democracy governments. That's what the whole world knows, and justice knows. They deal with the control mechanisms. He's been persecuted. He fired the keyboard face, Papadimitri. The former president of the ERIC was removed because he did not want to implement the decision of the political leadership to remove Mr Papadimitriou, who was the key person. Critical rings of the legal staff of the ERIC have been removed. And there are complaints that officials have misappropriated documents and destroyed them to erase their tracks. You, with what you're doing, with this horrendous political diversion, all you're proving, is that you're offering - and old and now - cover and protection to people completely illegal. Whether you have an ignorance of danger or are performing a contract with people who have served you all the years in your political and client system. There's no other explanation. It is shameful that you speak of a doctor, who has been hired through a programme financed by the European Union, with a low wage, who goes to PRECH throughout the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u48	With 1,800 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u49	...and cares for people who have serious health problems and coordinates, together with the others, the health care of tens of thousands of immigrants across the country. And it is shameful to say that these are favorable positions. These recruitments, for which the persecutions were carried out, were 'days' recruitments, which were used in political offices. Here we have the intake of eight hundred - they can go and a thousand - people, doctors, nurses, cultural mediators, who will go to camps, go to the border structures, do epidemiological checks, do screening on people who come and do not have full data on their health status. They are people who are at risk their personal health to provide these services. It's embarrassing to say that this thing is a factor of customer logic. We'll hire people to go there, where no one is willing to go and so far this gap has only been covered by non-governmental organisations. It's embarrassing to call this thing. CEDEFOP is doing an excellent job in the field of public health. It protects public health in the country. It creates a sense of health safety for humans. We prevented the refugee problem from happening in public health. I really thought, Mr. Fotella, that you would withdraw your question. You're multiple exposed. And you have just now put the "salt" of public health and tried to invest it sensitively for the seropositives, for whom I said we have given a solution that will start next month. The infectious ones are aware of it, the experts are aware of it. This problem has been tackled, and you are being swept away and trying to blur the waters, when the whole world knows very well, that at the moment the government is actually stirring up an outbreak of lawlessness and corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u50	With fathers and mothers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Blood a little up. I'll read a few announcements to give the Minister some time to take a breath. It's also about Mr. Saridis two of them. The Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 19 June 2018 until 21 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u52	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Ms Olga Kefefaliannis requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 18 June 2018 until 21 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u53	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Theocratic, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22 June 2018 until 28 June 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u54	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Allow me to announce the rest of the topical and urgent questions. The third, with number 1731/30-5-2018, topical question (B') of the Topical Questions Card of Monday 11 June 2018, by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the Subordinate to the Armed Forces", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. Cause, briefing by the Supreme Military hierarchy on current operational issues. The fourth question under number 1706/25/2018, dated Monday 11 June 2018, by MP, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Systems of the Ministry of Finance respects the contract of the Public Debt Management Organisation (PESH) with the investment bank ‘ROTHSCHILD’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliaraki. Cause: workload. Also, the sixth Question No 1588/3-5-2018 topical question (B') of the Topical Questions Card of Monday 11 June) by MP for the People's League Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotis Kouvelis. The seventh Question No 1538/23-2018 topical question (B') of the Topical Questions Card of Monday 11 June) by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need for an increase in military service" will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The eighth Question No 1539/23-2018 topical question (B') of the Topical Questions Card on Monday 11 June) by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of civil uniforms in a party course of the JRC", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. I would like to mention that there is also a letter from Mr Kaloger, the Secretary-General of the Government. Subsequent to the fifth under number 1728/30-5-2018, a topical first-cycle question (B') on Monday, 11 June, Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, on the subject of the following questions: "Urbanization of the beneficial provisions of Law 4368/2016". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, L.4368/2016 ensures access to the National Health System of any citizen who will declare uninsured. Given that the provisions of this law do not provide for any limits, Minister, such as income criteria, there are no exceptions, such as the holders of European Insurance Cards, nor even the obligations of the citizens, who make use of the law, that is to say, whether they are truly uninsured - it is not very surprising that, although unemployment, according to the Government, falls even slightly, the uninsured people who visit the Greek hospitals are increasing. After that, Minister, do you agree with the assessment that there is a misuse of the beneficial provisions of Law4368? If so, what do you intend to do to reverse this situation, which may be the burden of the system, burdens the hospitals, so that in future we have too many problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u57	My dear colleague, I think I should emphasise - and I think you also indirectly recognise this - that this intervention, Mr N.4368, has been a very important change in the country's health and social policy. We have basically been in the process of dealing with a major problem of health poverty, which has occurred in society. About three million of our fellow citizens have been found to have lost their insurance capacity, so the right to healthcare. That was a barbarity, I would say, social, which had to be tackled urgently. We have therefore managed, with L.4368, to restore the problem of the exclusion of these people and to institutionalise the right of their unrestricted access to the public health system. We abolished all the filters, which were available, such as three committees of hospitals, pre-elections, etc. There was a criticism, because we do not have income criteria, because, if necessary, some people who do not need it could benefit from this measure. Just because the situation was very urgent - and this was why, after all, this wave of social doctors had been created throughout the country, there were mayors' initiatives, the Archdiocese, the administration of medicines, non-governmental organisations, etc. - We said that if we go into a process where we're going to ask for additional information through the FICS, etc., there's going to be a hardship and a hardship. We considered, therefore, that we had to find a flexible way, which was the use of AMKA, so that these people would have the right, in an equitable way, to go to public structures, to do their examinations, surgery, hospitalization that they need, and to be able to prescribe their medications and examinations through a special platform of HEDICA. We thought this: even if there are, as some people are said, strategic mispaid, who are consciously choosing - that while they have money - not to pay their contributions and be uninsured, in my view, it was worth the trouble of covering the vast majority, which in necessity were found uninsured. Besides, can I tell you something? The one with money, my dear colleague, will not go conspiring in the tails of public hospitals and workshops, which we know are really facing a great burden of incidents, and they have anticipation and, possibly, suffering. I therefore believe that it was really an intervention, which gave dignity and has had a culture of equality in caring for these people. We also have some indications that abuse is taking place, mainly by people who were at some point in Greece, acquired AMKA and then left our country and possibly went to neighbouring countries where travel is easy. There may be an abuse, particularly in areas of Northern Greece, in hospitals in Northern Greece by people who are not permanently resident in the country. We, therefore, really, because we have identified these problems, are making a great effort to update carefully and sensitively - in order not to create any other side effects - the joint ministerial decision, the implementation of the law, by strengthening it by putting two or more filters above. A filter is to prove in an undeniable way the permanent residence in Greece. That's the crucial thing for us. We believe that the citizens who live permanently in the country - whether they are Greek citizens, of course, whether they are foreigners or refugees or immigrants or others - are entitled to decent medical treatment. That's what humanism demands. This also requires the logic of protecting public health. As long as these people do not have proper care so potentially they can cause public health problems. So I think that's the one thing, one point. The second point is the effort we are going to make to prove the identity. In other words, the citizen, who either goes to the hospital, having a prescription via an AMCA, or goes to the pharmacy to take his medicine, must prove to be a person, so that this possibility is not abused and exploited by people who do not formally have that right, as shown by L.4368.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore think that despite these irregularities that may have occurred, in general, this intervention was absolutely necessary, necessary and very critical for social cohesion. I inform you that in 2017 of about two million and sixty thousand who are still uninsured, based on the "ERGANI", the eight hundred forty thousand unique cases of them with AMKA were able to prescribe, treat, take their medications, do tests. And now, in the first half of 2018, this figure is already a little more than that, already in the first five months of the five hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u60	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u61	I do not think that this is due to pragmatism. It is, however, because these citizens have now been informed of this possibility, which had not happened in previous years, because there has not been any - let us say - an information campaign. A little orally in the mouth and with the efforts we have made and we are informing the health services. As long as the citizens are informed of this right, I think they are making greater use of the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u62	Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have an article in my hands, a study of two people, who are in the middle of things. They work at a hospital in my city, at the Papageorgiou Hospital and have published this article in April that passed us. On the basis of this article there are many categories of our fellow citizens - and not only - but also categories of refugees who could not be considered uninsured and yet, they are nevertheless considered uninsured. I'll submit this article to the Minutes to come to your knowledge. I would also be very pleased if from this article you would like to have a working meeting and discuss these sections with people who have worked too hard. I, because there are fifteen sections here, Mr Minister, will only mention three cases. It is not controlled in hospitals, Minister, if those who say uninsured, have private insurance or not. We do not control our hospitals, we do not control insurance, and there are too many people who have private insurance, but they are not insured, and yet the insurance company could cover their hospitals, cover their medicine. A second thing I would like to say to you, which I know personally and as an engineer who is my profession, is that there are too many self-employed - particularly engineers - who, in the past, may have lost a regulation or not paid a six-year contribution. These people, although they continue to be all right at the moment with their obligations and their insurance contributions, unfortunately, Minister, they are considered uninsured. So I cannot understand why, on the one hand, we are protecting the insurance funds, not paying, and on the other hand, we are too burdening our hospitals. I don't see what profit there could be. Or one will pay, Minister, or the other. Also, another issue, Minister, which I would like to mention through all this list - so that we do not abuse the time - is that it is completely wrong to include some refugees who have an AMCA in this law, as hospitals are not declared. This results in the Ministry losing money, which could be taken from the subsidies that, as you know very well, we get from the European Union. In other words, there are also such categories of people. There goes the other one, it just states uninsured, and there's just no identification if he's uninsured really or not. This document is available to you, Minister. Let's do our best not to charge our hospitals any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u65	Mr Saridis, I repeat what I said before: we are really proud of this intervention. It is a great incision, a relief intervention to the bad reality that was shaped in the health sector in our country because of the crisis, poverty, de-insurance, etc. We are aware, then, that we are going in a universal and equitable way to meet these needs, believing that either the person with money, but chooses to be insecure or the person with private health insurance, has no reason, my dear fellow Member, to seek health services, especially from the public hospital. You know we didn't make an absolute assimilation to the insured. The uninsured person thus covered is only covered by the public hospital and exam structures. She can't go to the private sector, to a private lab or to a private clinic. So those who have private insurance, in my view, are usually addressed to the private sector and are served. I don't think they're misusing ERC services. In this way we also gave a negative incentive to the tendency that could possibly be created, consciously not to pay their contributions, to remain uninsured, since they would have ensured their basic medical care. The drugs are completely simulated with the insured, that is to say, they pay their contributions as are the insured. Of course, there are some very low income criteria of EUR 2,400 a year. Those who are of this and below have zero participation. These people aren't few. It's about seven hundred thousand. They are, about, the beneficiaries of the Social Solidarity Benefit. They are therefore entitled to zero drug participation, no charge if they choose generic. If they take another medicine, off-patter, they pay the retail-insurance difference and 1 euro per prescription as are the other insured persons. I have to say this for information purposes. Just because we have covered a very important social need in this way, I have been very impressed by the fact that private insurance companies have started to deal with this area. I read recently that at a conference of private insurance companies it was considered that the way that the state covers this need is a waste. It was said that the state has covered one and a half million citizens. It's not a million and a half citizens, it's two million. In fact, it was said that together with their family members they are about three million citizens. It was said, then, that the way the state has covered it is wasteful. They estimated it cost 700m euros. The cost isn't that much. Their drugs were 165 million euros last year. So, he says, what's the solution? To make a PPP, public-private partnership, to cooperate private insurance companies with EOPY and to cover this need cheaper. So I think that proves, firstly, that there was a problem. Because you remember when we were discussing this bill here, which we were told by the Opposition, and especially by the Qualified Opposition, that this problem has been tackled. There's no, he says, no problem. What are you legislating now and telling us that you're covering the uninsured? And now the private insurance companies come and see a new market in this field. We believe that we cannot enter such a debate. Of course. We can easily meet this need in public structures. We do not think this could be the subject of private business. Now I'm holding what you said. We really want to shield this system so that it can be provided by those who really need it and have no choice. I think this is a very critical intervention. I would remind you that this policy has also been accompanied by debt cancellations. We legislated that. The hospitals are now gradually erasing the confirmed debts to the DUs of these citizens, amounting to EUR 28 million. Now, these citizens get an alert from the hospital, which says, for example, “Dear Mr. Xanthi, our hospital has deleted your debt to the hospital that was then”.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u66	Is there an ID?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u67	Sure. Look, I told you the points are two. The first is to prove permanent residence in the country. This is crucial so that there is no chance that anyone will stay in another country and come only to make use of services. The second is to prove the identity. The part of the refugee is a completely different thing. These people have been certified. The process now is to get a temporary AMCA for as long as they stay either in camps or in apartments - about 1/3 now is in apartments - and for as long as they stay in the country, so that they can have easy access and cover vital needs. Because they've changed their profile and they've come elderly with chronic illnesses, even cancer patients, pregnant women, children who need vaccination. The effort we are making is expenditure on refugee, on care for these people, on medicines and their vaccines, to come from the side of European funding, plus the level of expenditure that the health system has, so that it is not really possible to say that in a restricted budget, additional people are added, without any financial provision. We are therefore making an effort for this reason. Now we are going to launch a new programme - what I had already said to my dear colleague - out of the regular programmes from the national part of the IMP, namely the co-financed programmes. It is a EUR 50 million programme, so that over eighteen months we will hire over a thousand people who will systematically deal with health care and the camps, but also support neighbouring hospitals and health centres, which we know are very well aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u68	Minister, if you'd like, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u69	I think the suggestions were useful. We will try to review this Joint Ministerial Decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much to the Minister. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the Minutes of Friday 27 April 2018 and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u71	The minutes of Friday 27 April 2018 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-18-S1-commons.u72	With the consent of this House at 19.45 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 20 June 2018, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda.
