ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 254-2018 authorisation, PC's minutes of Wednesday 25 April 2018 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Structural measures for access to lignite and the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions’.]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 27 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1547/24-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Construction within areas of jurisdiction of port administration and exploitation". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1543/24-2018 topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Dora Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Great failure of the extrajudicial compromise". 3. The 1520/17-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious concern in Achaia for the measures to address the problem of meadows in the Patraikos Gulf". 4. The 1540/23-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters". 5. The 1522/18-4-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Manufacturing within and outside the jurisdiction of the administration and exploitation of ports". 6. The 1523/18-4-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The reversal of a truck in Halkidiki'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1544-24-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos, New Democracy. Charalambos Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, on the "Application of measures to dismantle the islands of the eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos by transferring immigrants to mainland Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. By No. 1528/19-4-2018, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The urgent need to take administrative and legislative measures to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the TEI". 3. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The sustainability of the factory of the Greek Sugar Industry in Orestia". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1983/11-12-2017 by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "What procedure took place with the "Doctors of the World" of caring for refugees from the Centre for the Host of Drama?". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1792/4-12-2017 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "A programme for cross-border cooperation between Greece and Italy (2014-2020) with regard to the Municipality of Paxon". 3. The question and application under number 4126/217/3-2018 of the PASOK Democratic Asylum - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the public's contribution to cover part of the debt of natural persons borrowing housing loans and the need to extend the contribution to the guarantors as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: We begin the debate with the second with No. 1541/24-2018, a topical question for the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Stavros Kalafatis, on the subject: "The position of Greece with regard to the formation of the EU's new Multiannual Financial Framework". This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalos. Please, Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the European Commission on 14 February 2018 presented its informal report on the new Multiannual Financial Framework. On 23 February, at the informal European Council meeting, the leaders of the European Union discussed the same subject. At the same time, the head of the European Union's budget, Mr Etinger, announced that the next seven-year budget of the European Union should be increased and that expenditure between 2021 and 2027 should be between 1.1% and 1.2% of the European Union's GDP, compared to the current 1%. He also pointed out that the Member States' contributions should be increased and also stressed that future funding should be directed towards projects with added value. The European Union has a dual challenge. We all know that. On the one hand, it has the departure of Britain and the gap created by the European Union's funds. It will miss its net contribution, which is around EUR 12 to 14 billion. At the same time, the European Union has had to implement new European policies once it faces new phenomena, new crises, new problems relating to internal security, strengthening external border control, effective immigration management, and combating terrorism. New funding will probably be needed. With regard in particular to Cohesion Policy, Minister, the committee included three scenarios in its communication. One is to maintain the support of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund for all the Member States. A second scenario relates to ending support from the ERDF and the ESF for the most developed regions and the transition area, which will bring about a drop of EUR 95 billion, corresponding to about 8.7% of the current Multiannual Financial Framework. Thirdly, restricting funding to the cohesion countries alone and this will bring about a reduction of almost EUR 125 billion. A similar possibility exists for the CFP, which may be the cut from 15% to 30%, that is, we are talking about a sum of EUR 60 to 120 billion. It is true that Greece is not included in those countries where funding can be terminated, but there is a serious possibility that our country will suffer the negative consequences of the reduction in Community expenditure. Consultations have begun, reactions exist. Since the formulation of the new Multiannual Financial Framework will have a significant impact on the progress of our economy and, of course, on the political cohesion and on the common agricultural policy, we would also like to know from the moment the consultations have begun, firstly what the Greek Government's position is on the development of the new Multiannual Financial Framework, in view of the necessary adjustments, which, as I have explained, are necessary because of Brexit and what position will Greece make on the proposal to increase the European Union's budget and on the options proposed by the Committee on Cohesion Policy and the CFP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u4	I thank you, Mr Colleague, for this is indeed an important and topical issue, as you mentioned. We have, as a government, already submitted a non-documentary paper to the European Commission, which I shall present and describe to you its basic guidelines. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The two main issues which concern us are, firstly, the orientation of the new Financial Framework, namely where the European Union's money will be spent, and secondly, where the revenue will be derived, in view of the very real gap - as you mentioned - that Brexit will create. President McCrone and others have put forward proposals which, in our view, rightly highlight the need, in addition to the traditional areas of European policy, to have funding in new areas, particularly in the digitisation of the economy and migration. We agree in this new direction, but we believe that the entry of new themes into the European Union should not be a burden on previous policies. You have rightly mentioned the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. These are the largest part of the budget, but also very important to us. We also want additional social orientation, if possible, to be given to cohesion policy and, more generally, to the orientation of the budget. In view of this, our position is that under no circumstances should it be reduced and it would be good to increase the European Union budget. As you know, the European Parliament is already proposing a budget of 1.3% of gross national product. However, it is important to discuss and to where the resources are to be drawn from. There is a reaction from the countries that pursue a stable budgetary policy in favour of limiting the budget to the extent that it represents the money that the European Union is losing from Brexit. There is one concern from other countries, but it is true that the Brexit gap will be covered, without imposing European taxpayers. We believe, in the context of a very important reference to the famous Monti report, that this dilemma can be solved by anticipating no additional burden on the level of European taxpayers, but on the so-called own resources of the European Union, that is to say new resources to be raised in new categories of economic activity. These own resources that we propose and we prefer them, because they may also have a redistributive effect throughout the European Union, are firstly a tax on international stock exchange transactions, a version of the Tobin tax, the taxation of digital giants in themselves for reasons of tax justice, but also for Europe to have its own digital champion. Furthermore, a general effort on fiscal coordination with the provision of a minimum common tax rate for European companies. In general terms, therefore, our proposals want the budget as a tool for the policies of the European Union and we want a social approach and a stronger economic instrument, without, of course, a burden on European citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I would like you, if you can, to be more informative on the question of cohesion policy and the CAP. I would like further details on this because, as you rightly said, the CFP and the Cohesion Policy cover around 2/3 of the European budget. We are well aware that, if you wish, it is the epitome or the flagship of European Union policies, because, apart from the investment part, it is essentially a key tool for reducing disparities both intra-regionally and of course between Member States because of globalisation. We are well aware that our country benefits more per capita than any other Member State from the CAP and is among the countries that receive the highest funding from the Cohesion Policy. Only to mention that it amounts to around EUR 4.8 billion on average annually the amount that our country has received in net contributions. It is also commonly accepted and self-proof that, because of the economic crisis, this Cohesion Policy covers a large gap in public investment, that is, it covers a gap which cannot be covered many times by state money. We think a big bet we need to win is how we get through to the next season. In our view, the memorials end for lenders, but they do not end for the Greeks, so this Greek Government proposal should be accompanied by the budget, in particular for the part of the Cohesion Policy and a plan to exit the crisis. Of course there is a famous development plan, but it is being discussed between the government and the institutions, and it is not in the knowledge of the rest, and certainly it is not the result of dialogue between the operators, the market and the citizens, that is, it is not the result of a wider consultation, so that it can be discussed with the institutions afterwards. I will put forward three thoughts - which I would like you to take into account. For me and for us it does not matter, as you say, only the height, but the way in which it is managed and the priority areas. In other words, any development intervention must be directly linked, in our view, with a business positive impact, by creating leverage of business value added and activity. Emphasis needs to be placed on sustainable spatial development for the benefit of the community as a whole, on employment with emphasis on young people and technology and on innovation on the impact and applications of interventions. It is also important to implement the possibility of multi-sectoral interventions between the funds, as well as the combination of tools that give more added value to the result and, of course, to add the financing framework for young entrepreneurs, startups, as well as of course the investment funds - participations set up by the Member States that operate on the basis of leverage. Finally, two more specific questions, Minister. The first is the attempt to link cohesion policy with the promotion of structural reforms. If you plan to move in that direction, it's very important to us. The second is this. As I mentioned in my protology, there is the concept of added value at European level to finance programmes and investments. So I ask if you are adopting this and how you understand the added value of the actions that will be taken. However, I repeat that the Cohesion Policy is a very important instrument. In my view, we should do everything we can to limit any reduction in expenditure in this part, precisely because its role is double. On the one hand, it helps investment, helps create infrastructure and investment. At the same time, however, it also creates a social protection framework, and if you wish, it creates a situation of conflict in terms of inequalities within Member States and citizens throughout Europe and throughout the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u7	Please, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u8	I thank you both for the constructive remarks and for the overall climate of your speech. I think it is one of the issues that we can, in fact, have a dialogue, because there is a continuation of national interests - we see in the other states - despite the rotation of governments that can give a different orientation, sometimes more social, to say, sometimes more market-oriented. There are, indeed, national interests which follow on. As I said before, we want to maintain the budgetary body for the common agricultural and cohesion policy. We are estimated on the basis of the new economic data, that around 770 billion will be needed in this period. We first want to maintain the basic structure as it stands in both categories of expenditure. In other words, in the common agricultural policy, we must not only have development tools but also direct grants because they provide income support. We believe, of course, that, in the direction of the new development model that we want to promote, these tools that are geared towards development must be used in particular. We agree with you again that, for this purpose, we should see the issue multifactoriously, that is to say, the use of funds from other sources, for example from the European Investment Bank, in the direction of leverage, as has been done with the Juncker project and a number of important investments in the primary sector in conjunction with the light industry needed for standardisation. In the cohesion policies, we want to maintain the current system, because even in developed areas there are many cases of poverty that need to be covered. In other words, even in the case of the Attica basin or in Thessaloniki where we have a significantly larger per capita GDP than in other countries, there are areas internally in need of aid. However, at the same time, we want there to be greater specificity and differentiation in the allocation criteria within national resources. There is, for example, a greater social and spatial dimension of the criteria, taking into account the level of poverty and the possibility of accessibility to services such as mountain or island regions. That is why we have proposed - but unfortunately this proposal did not prevail in the Heads of State or Government - that the social criteria of the European pillar of social rights be incorporated into the debate on the European semester should not be taken into account in a binding manner only economic indicators but also social ones. Finally, I will try to answer your questions quickly. On heresy issues. We do not want there to be a negative heresy in the sense of losing money from some countries that have not been able to achieve the reforms, but rather of having a positive heresy - aid to these countries, in conjunction with the social criteria that I have previously set. In the debate that has been initiated by the committee on heresy in relation to respect for the rule of law, for some countries you can imagine what they are, we firstly see it positive, in the view that we believe that respect must be exercised in the European Union's rules and values. But we expect to see how the debate of the committee responsible will be specialised, so that we can have our final answer. Finally, with regard to added value, we think that there is a place where the European Union can do things that the Member States cannot do above all. This is a typical example of the stock market tax, which we see as not only a financing instrument for the European Union's activities but also a redistribution instrument. A similar example is the money to be given to the development of European immigration policy, going beyond what every state can do to safeguard its borders, such as addressing the deep causes of immigration, which the European Union is trying to do, with these pacts with African countries, to keep the citizens there and help development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u9	I know in the House that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, informs the House that a series of questions will not be discussed for several reasons. The fourth under number 1530/20-4-2018 topical question by Attiki Attica, Georgios Mavrotas, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “Seriously questionable questions are raised in connection with the tendering of 3K/2018 SAEP”, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Interior. The sixth question, under number 1532/20-4-2018, is the first-round question of the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the debts to IKA/EFKA, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The sixth question under number 1495/16-24-2018, topical question by the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road of Promachonas Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Law of Serres", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the honourable Member. The fifth, under No. 1531/20-4-2018, topical question by Independent MP II Athens (State) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manner of attacks by underworld people and fork rebels", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The first question under number 1534/23-2018, the first question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Tsironi. He will be involved in an international conference. The first under number 1542/24-2018, a topical question from the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "First known crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Tsironi. Because he will participate in an international conference. The tenth under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place from a para-state website. Cesarean’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. Eleventh under number 1151/26-2-2018 a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. The third under No. 1551/24-2018 topical question by the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Kosokalis. Also, the third question by No 2464/10-1-2018 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIK Also, the fourth under number 1529/19-4-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "They continue to remain unpaid," will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr. Vassilis Kokalis. We move on to the debate of the fifth under No 1548-24-2018 topical question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For landslide, precipitation, soil displacement at the Preveza Kryppige". This timely question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis. Mr. Moraite, please, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has been a month since the 27th of March, when the inhabitants of Cryppi, Preveza, made known to the local authorities and the government the great landslide, precipitation, relocation of the territory that took place in the area, thus making extensive damage to roads, bridges and other infrastructures, as well as to residents' properties. About five hundred acres of olive trees have been destroyed. It has shifted the ground tens of meters away, dragging the olive trees. The concern of the inhabitants is great. They also feel rage at the same time, because so far no service, no mechanism has been presented, to help and much more to inform residents responsiblely. All that happened is that two days ago a meeting took place on the initiative of Epirus Region in the Preveza Regional Unit with some vague promises. Usually, however, when camera flashes are stopped and cameras are closed, promises remain. People's concern is growing, however, because the phenomenon is under way. They are more concerned about the region's history, where there is a continuous seismic activity, cracks, landslides, retreats scattered in the ground. Until there is a risk, Minister, to connecting the village with the road networks. The size of this disaster once again demonstrates the total lack of anti-military protection measures in the region. The residents directly require, Minister, that the village be declared in emergency situations and that immediate, urgent measures be taken to address the problem, as well as the adoption of the necessary budget line to finance a geologic study by the IGM. Although there was a reassurance of the region yesterday, people are concerned that this will not happen. They also call for measures to be taken to address the problem with regard to the flood protection and armoring of the area, the short connection between the village and the national network. There is this possibility. They shall also request the immediate submission of experts and scientific stadiums of all necessary specialities, for complete checks and a documented scientific response to the situation created by official written information. Also the immediate activation of responsible services to pay compensation and financial support to the affected, and not to refer them, Minister, to the PESA, where this is a timely process and after five - six years they get crumbs. I talked about concern among the people because the meeting that took place yesterday was said that ELGA would cover the production of olive trees for two to three years. The question is, they have lost their fields, Minister, because they have been dislocated. This requires the replacement of these fields, but also funding such in terms of ELGA, in order to ensure incomes until they regain fruit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u11	Please finish, Mr. Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u12	Minister, please give these specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraite, I also think that what you said does not apply to what you said, that nothing has been done so far in this one month and a few days that the phenomenon has occurred. As early as 18-04, the Directorate of the Ministry of Infrastructure has visited the area of Kryppi and you know that a process of recording and monitoring of phenomena has already begun. And because, as you quite rightly said, a phenomenon that is under way must be monitored, it needs a scientific study and obviously a corresponding scientific finding on what is missing. This is not a natural disaster which has been done and we are then trying to face up to its consequences. And at the meeting just yesterday and the day before yesterday in the presence of the EGMM, which is responsible for studying the natural phenomenon, the first conclusions lead to the fact that this is a wide-ranging phenomenon, not at present threatened by settlements, and that is positive, at least that was the first assessment by the scientists of the EGM. From there on, a more thorough finding will be developed immediately, which is a prerequisite for declaring this area in an emergency. These steps are necessary to follow, so that we can be responsible for dealing with a serious situation. As far as ELGA is concerned, it has called for the corresponding procedures for claims for damages. And this process again has its feet. Therefore, it is not the excessive tone you have given your question that nothing has been done. The Directorate of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the rehabilitation of natural disasters has asked the region and the municipality, as soon as there are any suspicions - even - of damage to homes, to lodge a request to sign up to the Ministry for compensation in this case. So I think we should in a calm way do what is predicted and see, monitor the phenomenon, look at the concrete steps in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mr Moraite, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u16	Minister, and after today's debate, the concern and anxiety of the inhabitants is growing. You did not answer the substance of any of the questions that we put in our question, but also in the memorandum put to you by the people of the region. Now the fact that there was a meeting two to three days ago does not say anything at all. I must tell you that similar meetings, and with your presence, have also been held in Aetolo-Carnania in floods. And when - exactly what I said - the TV cameras went down, no compensation was received, Minister. And there are still cases in Ioannina and other areas where the flooded compensation has been awaiting for years. So all these meetings we think it is an empty letter, since there is no result. The concern is growing, Minister, and the responsibilities are enormous and time-consuming, because we are talking about a phenomenon that was not presented yesterday. It is a phenomenon that has just been ten years, since 2009, and it appeared both in 2013 and 2011 and has not happened at all. That's why the people's agony is growing up and they're suspicious that it won't happen. As far as the geological study on the part of the IGM is concerned, I would like to say that the IGM needs money. Is this money going to be paid by the Ministry? The region has given some vague promises that do not solve this problem. That is why we say that the responsibilities are enormous, over time, both from local and regional authorities and from governments. Do not try to get rid of it, because this was said at the meeting on extreme weather events. Extremely is the anti-grassroots policy you are implementing - and you and the previous ones - that you do not take measures to protect anti-military and anti-Semitism shielding in the region. Is there any measure in general - at the meeting nothing has been said - anti-military protection? The phenomenon is under way. At the moment, the testimony of the inhabitants who water from a river that ends up there shows that it is mud. This proves that the phenomenon is under way. So how can people not be concerned? At the moment, the responsibilities are shown that there is no real step in this direction. That is what we ask you to answer, Minister. And we ask you what happened yesterday at the meeting? What we are transporting is that we need to replace the fields. Giving a reward doesn't mean anything at all. This world has lost the fortune. There will be no replacement of income for at least the last ten years. And if money is even given for the acquisition of the land, it must also be given for the olive trees, because if they plant olive trees, I do not know if you know that, after ten years, they will be produced. So all these problems exist, and that is why the concern of the people is growing. And there's also a problem of household stagnation. Already, some rural houses at a distance from the village have been damaged by previous landslides. But is there any study today in detail that says there is no problem in the settlement? The danger is visible. The phenomenon is in a nearby radius of people's homes there. That is why the concern of the people is obvious. We are asking you, Minister, at least in the second instance to give concrete answers, because the day before the meeting in the region, we consider that no significant step has been taken, but there was no commitment to resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u17	Minister, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Moraite, you are the right man to give courage and comfort to people. You're talking about a ten-year-old phenomenon and you come here to ask the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u19	I went there and saw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u20	Allow me. Well done, your political obligation is. But you are talking about a ten-year-old phenomenon - you said it - which you are asking to answer at a meeting that took place for the first time after the landslides and phenomena that have occurred in recent times. Neither you nor I can assure you at the moment how the phenomenon is going to develop. I imagine you understand that. Isn't that right? That's as far as you and I are. So that's why there's IGM, that's why there's scientists to do a thorough job. It is not just a question of anti-military matters, when we have such phenomena which have more time and causes that need to be sought. So don't say nothing has happened. They have done what is being imposed at this stage. I repeat that you have the assurance from the ELGA that, if necessary, there will be not only compensation, but what you have said. But that has to be proved. I do not understand, that is, what we are offering at the moment, if we are generally using intense colours to describe a situation. I understand the anxiety. I repeat, however, that the Ministry has been there since the 18th of last month and this meeting was held yesterday. So, shouldn't we wait? As far as financing is concerned, this is obviously foreseen. Obviously, the studies must have funding for them. There will be, that's not the problem. The point is to identify the right causes, to see what happens. And it's not just the particular area that's showing up and slimming phenomena. They occur in other regions in recent years. These phenomena are transient, appear every one year cycle. We have too many causes, many more than we do, i.e. exceed even the impact of the human factor on this region. They're geological phenomena much larger. So leave it now for the extreme weather phenomena to be said by scientists. As far as the extreme policies are concerned, I will see you in another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. We move to the second under No 1549-24-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Without any staff of various critical and neuro-algal services of the Municipality of Ikaria". Please, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem of the lack of staff in critical and neuro-algal services of the Municipality of Ikaria has evolved into a major issue and is perpetuated despite the efforts of the municipal authority and the Mayor and with earlier interventions to you, your Ministry and you personally, in the Ministry's supervised services, in the Decentralised Aegean Command. However, there is absolute indifference, as if there were no such thing as the problem, as if they hadn't complained, as if they hadn't submitted a document, in any case, to get an answer. Unfortunately, the problem did not solve last year's legislation - I am referring to Article 24 of Law 4479/2017 which promoted the Ministry of the Interior - but instead raised the problem. I remind you what the JRC said last year about this issue. Not only does it not ensure the right to permanent and stable work, but it does not offer any guarantee that the municipalities will keep all contractors with new fixed-term contracts. This is exactly what happened in the Municipality of Ikaria and not just, we would say. In the Municipality of Ikaria since 2015, eighteen employees were hired with fixed-term contracts for cleaning services and the operation of thermal sources. After three extensions - which is why they were also described as expatriates - and after the time limits of the legislation have been exhausted, workers have been made redundant. Three appeals were brought by the workers, i.e. to see how people were troubled. In the latter they were vindicated and, according to last year's legislation, the contract ended on 31-3-2018, that is, recently, they took an extension of one to two months, i.e. until the end of May, if I am not mistaken. Then it's over! It's not - I'm sorry for the phrase - swimming! The municipality, the island, that is, stays naked from personal cleanliness. No scooter, no one on the beaches, just moving one of the five that used to move in the past. Who's moving them? The two anti-majorists are moving a dumpster. The famous medical sources of the island are unable to function. This will also have dramatic consequences for the respective service of the municipality, in the operation of dozens of businesses on the island that operate around the healing sources, as a whole in the tourism of the island. The municipality, Minister, is in front of a dangerous dead end. And this comes as a result of your own policy and legislative arrangements, which finally ended up being a cliff and backward stream. As you well know and in order to avoid misunderstandings, the municipality was not able to declare permanent staffings in the existing tender, since it did not have the required returns which the tender had as a condition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Nor did it have the possibility of recruiting fixed-term staff, since the presence of existing contract workers, which had been extended three times, as I said before, did not allow it. The situation as it has been formed, Minister, is very serious with many risks to public health if this deadlock continues. And we ask you, what is the solution you will give. What measures will you take to ensure that all the relevant decisions of the Icaria Municipal Council sent from February, giving an immediate solution to at least 2018 and, finally, to ensure, by waiving any institutional impediments at least, the eighteen posts of workers in the municipality so that these services can function effectively? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Synhonaki, put some things in place. No worker was fired. The duration of their contract is over. That's not dismissal. And they knew it very well. So stop creating false impressions and please...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u25	Now you're saying that thing. Before you said any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u26	I don't suppose you need the help of your neighbor, don't interrupt me. You know that very well. You know the whole case, the whole story of contractors in cleanliness over the last few years. You know that the government has taken the initiative for a permanent competition that has been completed in a record time, and at the moment, the municipalities have most covered their needs. There will always be a need for seasonals, because there are places with tourist traffic, there are emergencies. However, it is quite different that the presence of seasonals should be complementary to that of permanent treatment. I did not understand, however, whether the mayor has or does not have a responsibility, when since last July he knew that he had the right to submit a proposal for a permanent post and did not, in the name of - says - of the argument that 'I do not get the rewards'? But how did he pay them? Because at the moment there were employees. So he had the funds. So he ignored it - I do not know what logic it is, but it has a huge responsibility - and there has been an extension and there has been a second wave of competition. Over five hundred positions beyond eight and a half thousand will be proclaimed in the next period again, the mayor is not coming. He doesn't choose permanent jobs. It selects flexible forms of work. Contractor wants the mayor. And when he knows that they cannot be extended - as was judged last July's unconstitutional extension - what is he going to say to us? Look, self-government must assume its responsibilities. We have enabled permanent workers to be employed. Isn't the reward fees enough? I repeat, what source did he pay the previous contractors? And anyway, you know what? This relationship is indeed rewarding. The public pays and has the demand for clean cities. A win doesn't fit in there. That's what New Democracy says. He wants to put individuals on the line and he wants to alter the character of these positions. We cannot, however, make a policy against taxpayers in the rest of the country and not put the necessary fees in order to pay back what the citizen demands. If you think that all Greece must become a very large state mechanism, where all the state officials must pay them, to do this work either in Ikaria, Evros or in Gadus, it is another perception. We don't agree. This has given us a concrete opportunity. The mayor didn't take advantage of her. However, yesterday, three IC posts were adopted for rider drivers, seven HR posts for cleaning workers and three plumbers, for contractors, for octameneists, since the possibility for permanent staff with the responsibility of the mayor was not exercised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u27	Mr Synthyriakis, there is a request, because there is going to be work on the translation followed by Mr Yunker, to keep time at the normal level.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u29	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you will remember last year the regulation you made with this amendment and said that you will resolve the problem. And I turn the question back to you, and I tell you: has the labour problem been solved in the municipalities of the country? How many applications did they make at the ASEP contest? It was a hundred and thirty-eight thousand. How many places was it? It was for eight thousand. How many real needs? It's much more, Minister. And you have not solved the problem and you will not solve it, because your government is an enemy of permanent and stable work and you have admitted it in any case, precisely because there is a commitment to the European Union and the partners to ban recruitment. We didn't talk or talk about seasonal, about flexible working relationships. I would remind you that once, you were talking about constant and constant needs. So where is he? You're saying today to cover standing and constant needs? No way. The government does not guarantee a permanent and stable job and you refuse to convert contracts into an indefinite period of time - you know that this is the position of the JRC - and with the regulation that you have done last July, you have made things difficult and you are coming out from above. What was the amendment that you tabled? That contractors, employed by the municipalities up to 07-06-2017, can continue to work no later than March 2018. In order to do so, municipalities should, by 31-07-2017, request the recruitment of regular staff for cleaning, provided that the relevant expenditure is fully covered by the fees. If the municipalities do not request the recruitment of permanent staff, they cannot enter into new fixed-term contracts. So, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u31	For stable, permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u32	Wait. You are urging the municipalities and especially the small ones, who need permanent staff, but who do not have the opportunity to cover the payroll of these permanent staff - and I would remind you, blackmail, is conditional on them - to resort to increasing fees. Because you realise that otherwise it is the payroll for tyre workers in municipalities, otherwise it is the payroll for permanent workers. Different are the needs in one case, different are the needs in the other. To force the municipalities to put their citizens in a deep pocket, in such conditions of tax evacuation, poverty, unemployment and degrading wages and pensions, to pay back, that is, double and triple for services they have already paid. You guys are nice, and you're talking about a clean exit, which is black and black, in the end! So let's not get out of here. So, in practical terms, how will you solve the problem, Minister? You announced these specific recruitments. That's not enough. Needs are for much more personal. The ball's on you. You have the political responsibility and, as in the previous question, you said the IGM, you said the periphery, you said "there was a meeting in the case of Iatokarnania and we'll see". But you've been in the government for three years and have not dealt with the matter. As you do not care and you will not solve the employment issue, especially in municipalities and especially in the area of cleanliness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. One thing is certain: we are talking together, but we cannot come to an agreement. Because here you are defending the words of stable permanent jobs, which, when they are done for the first time in ten years, are objectively undermining them by adopting solutions that are on the reverse. Because, yes, it is lasting and constant needs and on the basis of this necessity, I repeat, after ten years, such a great competition. Yes or no? Yes! It's over and out. That's not questionable. The number of workers, how many will be hired, has been determined by self-government. We didn't determine the number. You know very well, because it was for recruitment to payroll services, but let me tell you once again that it does not fall within the limitation of the recruitment rule, which applies to municipalities, the public sector and the wider public sector. It is, however, determined on the basis of their actual revenues. Because, obviously, we would not allow any mayor to make any populist politics and make unscrupulous people, not be able to cover it with their own powers and then come the central authority from the taxation of the rest of the citizens to fund this service or to increase the fees unreasonably to the public. Therefore, as identified by the public, the possibility of providing municipal fees is also identified. The rule is clear. We, what we are doing is overseeing it and thus operating in the direction of stable permanent jobs. Because we do not want flexible jobs in the public sector. And the first step to send a corresponding message to the private sector is to start from the public sector. We started with cleanliness, drastically limiting contractors. And you come here to tell us 'why don't you catch the contractors, who knew their contract was over on 31 December?' Is that so, yes or no? When the Court of Auditors came and said it was unconstitutional, their third extension, they knew that by the end of December last year, they would work. We gave this extension until 31 March, precisely because it was a matter of public health and to come out ahead and the competition should not have been blank. That's all you know. But you're swept away. What are you doing? You're throwing ink. You play with the needs of the workers. The hundred and thirty thousand people who applied were not suckers, they wanted an open and not a photographic contest, as you now say. So what do you think? Photographic competition. Those who went through and worked last time should go on their own right to cover the permanent posts. Is that right? Is it social law? Can you defend this against the unemployed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u35	Social automation is fine. You're taking it. One team across the other. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u36	No, you're making social automation. For the first time I have seen a representative of the Communist Party not defend stable jobs. This does not honour the history of the Communists. In some things, then, we may disagree strategically, but you must defend them, and the case of mere proportionalness to self-government - which you have now forgotten - and stable working relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u37	What are you talking about? Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u38	So that's what people will know and tell things the way they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to announce requests for the absence of certain colleagues. Congressman Nikolaos Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 14 May 2018 until 16 May 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u40	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, MP Mrs Olga Kefalayannis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 30 April 2018 until 6 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question and a request for the submission of documents by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukus. However, because at the moment Mr Koutsoukos is not in the Chamber - he is taking part in a committee - we are interrupting for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u42	The second question under number 3719/207/22-2-2018 will be discussed and an application for the submission of documents by the Member of the Solvency of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Principles from the course of application of Law No.4387/2016 (Katrugalos Law)”. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have reviewed the insurance policy with Law No.4387, the Tsipras Kammenos law, which is inconsistently called the 'Law of Katrugalos'. Mr. Katrugalos just handled a case, committed a crime and left. And it is your responsibility for all of you collectively, because what you have done is to reduce pensions directly, because you have changed the rate of replacement, you have hit the insurance payroll, you have introduced double contributions - it was essentially a tax bill of your own - mainly to the freelance professionals, and you have created demonic procedures in their award. The most important thing, however, is that your own law comes the provision of a cut in personal differences from 1-1-2019, the one Mr. Katrugalos told us that it would not be cut and that pensioners would get increases. So, in accordance with the mandate given to us by the Greek people as MPs of the Anti-Population, we tabled very specific questions to Mrs Ahtsoglou on 16-1-2018. We reinstated them on 22-2-2018, because Mrs Ahtsoglou has not been required to answer us, as she did not reply to our second question, and now you have come here to cover Mrs Ahtsoglou. You should, as she sent you here, first, tell us why Mrs Ahtsoglu and the Ministry underestimate the House. A Member cannot, when he asks for specific information, write it in the oldest of your shoes! In the questions I have submitted to you, therefore, I ask for specific information on how many pensions, both major and ancillary old pensioners, have been issued since the date of the law and how many of them are pending by an insurance body. What is the annual cost of the above pensions issued and what is the corresponding temporary pensions for which the final pensions are pending? How many pensions, main and ancillary, new pensioners, after the application of Law No4387/2016, have been issued, definitive and temporary and how many pending? What respectively are the annual expenditure on newly issued pensions and what are the provisional expenditure? What is the number of old pension recalculated under the provisions of L.4387/2016? For uncalculated pensions, we ask that the relevant file should be filed which shows the amount of the pension before and after the recalculation. What is the number of free professionals who are entitled to reimbursement or compensation and when will they be returned? They're specific questions to do our job and check you out and you don't answer. So there is a serious issue, that of the contempt of the House. I don't think, Minister, that you have that right. The second is the substance. Is something behind the inability to answer? That's what I want you to tell us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kutsuko, I'd expect a more polite position from you. You should know that no one sends me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u46	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u47	No one sends me. She sent me here, you say, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Be more noble. Press reports "Mrs Ahtsoglou sent you" are only serious, except contemptuously to my face and to the process. I am a State Secretary for Social Security and no one sends me. What you're asking me I'll give you a full answer. Already, in at least three topical questions, with the PASOK Parliamentary Group in full, we have responded to many issues, such as what you are asking, which are constantly changing. I don't know what you're suggesting that Mrs Ahtsioglou didn't come here, but these issues, the social security issues, are my responsibility, and I never asked you a question that I wouldn't answer. I always answer and never, to any questions that have been asked so far, I refused to come and answer. I'm all here. I don't know what you're saying how it turns out. I now come to the points you raise with your question. By 1 January 2015, we had great unfinished pensions, as well as main and subsidiary. Within the month of May, we will have seventy-five thousand major pensions. We had more than two hundred and sixty-five thousand. In total, in January 2015, we had three hundred forty-seven thousand major pensions pending, and now we have seventy-five thousand major pensions. We have hundreds of thousands of subsidiary unfinished, while in January 2015 we had a hundred seventy thousand outstanding. We have thirty-six thousand single, while we had January 2015, seventy-seven thousand single, twice as many. Therefore, for delay we cannot be accused of this. We did not want to go into containment of expenditure, but to speed up the payment of contributions. The total cost of these outstanding benefits is EUR 1,090,000 and not EUR 2,500,000, as New Democracy raised yesterday with a catastrophic logic that Mr Brutsis has. The corresponding outstanding benefits cost of January 2015 was EUR 2,000,000. Throughout this period, many more applications have been made for pensions. Because you realise that every month, over twelve to fifteen thousand new pension applications come to the system. Therefore, it is very important that the performance of the EVA is very important. In 2017, forty-two thousand eight hundred and thirty-four shares were paid in total. Within a year, that is, we had the sum of EUR 1.600 million. That was a record for 2017 that we were accused of not giving pensions to have surpluses to the FBI. On the contrary, we had the highest performance in the granting of pensions. I repeat the number: we have given forty-two thousand eight hundred and thirty-four benefits amounting to EUR 1.600 000. In 2016 we gave a hundred and eighty-five thousand pension benefits, which is sixty thousand less. In 2015 they were about eighty - six thousand pension benefits at a cost that did not exceed 1 billion each year. Therefore, we also have an increase in the amount of pensions that we have given, that is EUR 600,000, 000 more than in previous years, as shown by the figures I have been telling you. The Greek Statistical Authority confirms all data. In fact, ELSTAT estimated that in 2017 the surplus of EFKA was EUR 2,937,000. Therefore, we have a performance in detail to each positive body. They are currently pending for employees, i.e. for IKA former IKA - ETAM, thirty thousand, seventy - seventy - seventy pensions. In IKA - EDF, we have two thousand fifty-five pensions pending. The OAU is sixteen thousand four hundred thirty-three unfinished pensions. Approximately the same in the OGA. In the EBRD we have five thousand four hundred ten pensions. At the NAT a thousand forty-seven pensions. In the EFF - SMEs two hundred and twenty-two pensions. In public two thousand nine hundred twenty-six pensions. We are sure that with this data we will succeed by June in having much better results. As you can see from the data I give, pensions are accelerated, not only from time to time, but from month to month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Petropoulou, complete. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Koutsoukos will give me a chance to give more information later, so I'm done with it. Therefore, the disaster did not come with N.4387, but a much better situation. You know that our country has committed itself with 2010 decisions that never exceed 16.2% of GDP. He surpassed it successively all the years this percentage, even in 2015. That's why cuts were made every year. In 2010 the first cuts were made, close to 2,500,000,000 euros. The following year, 7,000,000 euros were cut. Overall, we have reached 45,000,000 euros of social security cuts. That is why the country has committed itself. And the country has committed itself to the legal procedures governing the operation of every country that is within the core of the European Union, to the euro currency. So don't ask yourself why we're trying to do a job to stop the collapse that occurred in social security and slowly to build a better system in terms of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u51	Be careful, because Mr. Petropoulos left a peak on courtesy, I do not want to offend anyone, Minister, and especially you, because I know that you often take the chestnuts out of the fire. And it is unacceptable that what you said from the Stepma now, that you are not aware of the questions and of the application for documents I have submitted and re-submit. If you are responsible, Mrs Ahtsoglou should have sent them to you. The Rules of Procedure say that we are asking them to the ministers, we are not making them to the State Secretarys and on the basis of the distribution, they are giving them to the services and politicians responsible for answering them. It is unacceptable for Genoa and February to say that you do not have questions in mind and you do not answer. The question is also an application for documents. Don't move your hand out. Go look at your ministry and accuse your policy chief Mrs. Ahtsoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u52	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u53	You won't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u54	You'll answer, Minister, later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u55	I believe, Minister, I will tell you that some ministers have ridden the reed. He's not answering our questions. See the list of unanswered questions communicated to us every time by the competent service of Parliament, with Mr Tsakalotos, Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr. This has to end. Now you've been taken from the boats, but you're the ones who came here. What can we do? We are now coming to the point. You tried to answer a small part of my question about delays. I accept the numbers you gave me, I can't do any different. I added the amount of seventy-seven thousand to the delayed, instead of two hundred ten thousand to be written by the press. I accept, but you have to take into account, Minister, that the previous delays had to do with an exit number at the time before the change of insurance that was three times as high as the present one. Now the output number has been reduced, so the delay of two and two and a half years is not justified. In any case, you have told us what the pensions you have paid for, the 1 billion, but you are not telling us what the main, subsidiary, one-off dividends and dividends are, to see whether or not the EVA's surplus is real. I now come to the other things you did not answer, because if you had the written question in front of you as you had to, you would see that the next question is when you will make the recalculations. You had to do the recalculations by the end of March and send the retired people a piece of paper that says: "My Mr. Yiannis, so much I will cut you off." But you don't. So I ask: is that not appropriate, so that people don't know what you're going to cut it off and revolt it? Didn't you, Minister, vote for the pension cut 1-1-2019? Did we vote for her? And now you're telling us about 2010? We said that you overthrow the country's economic situation, didn't need any other pension cuts, and you drive the insurance to a dead end, so you have the decisions of the Council of State. So, as time is pushing, I would ask you backwards as a sign of remorse to study the question and in a moment, as is the obligation of Parliament's Rules, to answer all the questions: When are you going to make the cuts? How many are there? When are you going to give the retardants and so on? For the rest, I'm expecting to hear you if you have anything essential. But for the procedural procedures concerning the tactics of the Ministers towards Parliament and the Members of Parliament, let me not lift a fly in my sword!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u56	First of all, before I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Petropoulou, to say that much that Mr. Koutsoukos said was referring to all the ministers and not to Mr. Petropoulos, who, from my own experience of this position, I think is one of the most conscientious of his responses to Parliament. So to distinguish this thing and, of course, to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u57	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. In January 2019 there will be the pensioners' clearing houses the amounts relating to the amount of pensions after the recalculation, because, as we have said before, the government's effort is to give the best effect to the pensions to be granted to the insured. Until now, no cut has taken place in pensions since our own government period and let us try as much as we can. The law that we have voted on stipulates that the computer system should register the result of the recalculation rather than grant this amount of pensions resulting from the recalculation now. Granting will take place from 1 January 2019 and until then we can try to have the best possible result for our pensioners. That's what we always do. This is our only attempt and we are optimistic that we will be able to achieve the best possible results. So just be patient. Try to get this result too, because we are all committed by the government not on our own initiative, but on an initiative that took place in 2010 by the government to commit the country to 16.2% of the budget expenditure. This is an insurmountable level of commitment. We cannot do anything about it, because, as you remember, in 2015 you were telling us 'fastly - quickly take on the commitments that the country had before'. We made this political move and we made it through the law that we voted on in 2015, with the third memorandum that you call it inappropriate - the other two were useful, the third one that was inappropriate - which you quickly wanted - to vote as inappropriate. This is the situation and we cannot hide in any way. At least, let's speak honestly here. And if it is something that you can suggest to do differently in the interests of the insured, say it, but not to overthrow commitments, which are accompanying us anyway, which we too have undertaken because it could not be done differently at that time under the conditions of the country. It cannot be done and you are constantly saying that you are out of this responsibility, which has been caused by previous years by previous commitments. I am not accountable and it is not our Government that is accountable for these results, which have their origin in previous years. And, indeed, there are very strict commitments resulting from previous Memorandums. This commitment we made was an earlier commitment. For this reason, Mr Koutsouko, the results will be obtained in January 2019 in terms of recalculating. It's done. We are intervening with the best result that we can have in the whole process, which we are pursuing. It's not the time to go into details about this. The effort we are making to evaluate successfully and complete the relevant programmes that will be decided in the next period will accompany our efforts to follow up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Following is the seventh under No. 1526/194-2018 topical question from the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP I Athens of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Image of abandonment present historical buildings in the center of Athens". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mrs Connordou. Please, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. It's the third question I ask about the same thing. I have done two things to you, one to the previous Minister, and I can assure you that I have nothing to do with this obsession with any opposition, much more so because it is not your responsibility to abandon decades in large pieces of the city centre or because I have a sense of political obligation as a Member of the First of Athens. I'm telling you honestly, and I insist, because I've been born and grown up in this town. It's really a wound to see big pieces of abandoned and these open wounds in front of you every day. I say this sincerely by a personal sensitivity and I want you to understand it. Madam Minister, I'm going to give you some information that I'm writing in my question. You have read it again, but I will say it again, because apart from you, my colleagues and myself, I am glad that Mr Kaklamanis is here, because he himself has one question later, as former Mayor of Athens he knows very well what I am talking about and he knows very well that I am right. The building on Praxitelos Street, a large building in number 24, has been abandoned for years, but not abandoned in general. It's a mice outbreak. There are disinfections almost every month from the municipality, but that doesn't mean anything and it doesn't lead anywhere. One of the oldest and most beautiful historical buildings in Athens, the Fedio street building, Prokes Osten, is literally a ruin and ready to collapse. This once-ever jewelry of Athens, which has housed the Austrian Ambassador, who was then made a basement, after the roof of the Greek Odeion, the Athens Odeon, is in the absolute and complete abandonment. And it's in the heart of Athens, Minister. It is in the corner of the University and Charilaos Trikoupi. Obviously you know very well what I am saying, but I insist and give as much emphasis as possible on this, in order to understand the problem. The medieval tower of Thera Street in America, where we have all been, this architectural structure of another type, which is rare - even in large capitals in Europe, is not such buildings - has been classified as maintained since 2008. It was built in 1914 as the home of the Kefalonite merchant Tupildou, was inhabited until 1993 and today, despite the desperate efforts made by his owner to keep it alive, giving it to neighborhood clubs, to have a life, the building remains in the state it is today and it is evident that it will collapse. He's not going to be held. And one last thing that concerns you, not personally but the space you serve, the art, is the building of Kostis Palamas on Perandros Street. There is no capital in Europe that has no special care for the residences of the great artists, the historical figures of art. We here have a distance from these issues, as if they were not our concern! Madam Minister, I ask you whether there is and what is the Ministry's plan for restoring the image of these buildings I have mentioned and others. I have been telling you since now that I will come with a fourth question to you in relation to the preserved buildings and their tragic fate, but also the tragic fate of their owners, who can no longer hold them. I am sorry, Mr President, but I have a sensitivity on these issues. I went to the conference held yesterday by the Association of Resident Owners, a very interesting conference and saw the desperation of people. They want to keep the preserve, because they feel the need over the city and their history to keep it and they can't. They cannot afford it, especially in terms of ENPIA and its taxation. I also ask you, what your Ministry intends to do about the residence of Kostis Palamas, which I mentioned before and whether there is any elementary agreement with the Municipality of Athens on how these issues can be dealt with. Thanks for the protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u62	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u63	I can only agree, Mr Lykoudi, that in the centre of Athens there is a very high-value building stock, which has unfortunately not emerged and which is our concern too, so that we can maintain it and deliver it to the next generations. We also very well know the great destruction that took place in earlier times, with the throat of the adversary, which destroyed a huge part of the historic center of Athens, unlike other cities that keep all these historical buildings as the daughter of an eye. At the moment, then, we have a number of buildings within our competence, which we are trying to take care of in the best possible way. I would like to clarify something that is perhaps not known, that it is not all the buildings in Athens that are preserved by the Ministry of Culture. The specific building you are referring to, of Praxitelos 24, like the one that is on Thera Street, to which you referred, this very special building in America Square, is not on the list of the characterized preservers of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, we do not have any competence to intervene or deal with the possible restoration as a building characterised by us. Now, as far as the Fidius Street building is concerned, I happen to know it very little. Maybe in the last days that it worked, I went to write to this tribute, the Hellenic Conservatory. I still remember what it was like inside. It is a building that is really very important, and you know that for many years it has been owned by the National Bank of Greece's Personnel Retirements Fund. The Ministry of Culture, according to my briefing, was kept in 1977. In 1992, the Directorate responsible for Protection and Restoration of Modern and Contemporary Monuments approved direct life and research work in the building. In 2006, the forced expropriation or the direct acquisition of the building, which, as I said, was the property of the National Bank of Greece, was approved. We are talking about 2006, which was a time not difficult budget, as it is today. The value of the property was too high for the time, it was of the order of 5 million euros. That is why, as the crisis began, budgetary conditions did not allow the building to be expropriated. So this has not been completed until now. The Ministry of Culture prioritises expropriations mainly concerning archaeological sites and their protection and promotion. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to speak a little more. The building on the Perandros road, where Palamas lived in the last years of his life, has a special story. In 2002, the Office of New Monuments issued, after the opinion of the local council, a decision in favour of the approval of a study of the fixing, reform and promotion of the building. This study was carried out by the Ministry of Culture, but was not carried out by the owner due to his weakness. On the other hand, the alleged owners have requested that this building be declassified, but this request was rejected by the Central Council of New Monuments, which unanimously delivered an opinion in favour of not declassifying it. Nevertheless, the Ministry then, according to my information, examined the property titles and other legal elements and identified the value of possible expropriation, which was then found to be too high. However, our legal responsibility is limited to these properties, because they do not belong to the Ministry of Culture. As far as the relevant questions raised by you are concerned, therefore, we know that, according to Law 3028/2002, the owner is required and cared for in order to restore, maintain and establish the monument. The rest I'll report to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr Lykoudi, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u65	Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully to your reply. I do not question the information you have given, and it seems to me that it is very reasonable to say to me "Mr Lykoudi, all right, in that I will see what I can do, but the rest is not our responsibility, it is another property or political responsibility". But you know what I mean? I demand that the Minister of Culture and especially Lydia Konordos, a great theatre man, go and knock on the door of the responsible minister who is not interested, take him out and say "Come here, this cannot continue." You have a much greater chance of doing so than I do, because you are on the same Ministerial Council, or you have a better chance of addressing those who may hear. Let me give you two other important examples, for which you can also tell me that it is none of your business, but it is important for me to hear. The National Bank is the owner of an entire building block in the center of Athens that has let it desolate. This is where they are located: the former "Amene" - you know - the historical building of the Stock Exchange, which is from behind, the building over the Acharic Gate on Aiolos Street and additionally the building of the former Building on the University Street. It is a whole square, which is a wound, such as "Apollos" and "Atticon" another wound a little above it. How long will this situation continue, Mrs. Connordos? We've been talking for decades now. IKA has half a block - you also know - in the University's contribution to Charilaou Trikoupi, which from behind is the former National Conservatory, etc. It's been abandoned over 20 years. The University has a building savanced with scaffolding over five years and the former royal printery has been reinstated since 1995 waiting for us to use it as a state. This, Minister, is not to be mentioned in order to get a specific answer that will calm me down. I wish, of course, an answer that says: 'Okay, in the next five years, the centre of Athens will be better'. But you know very well that for certain reasons Greece has been in the center of tourist interest for years. We've been through this. And our city, the capital, the center, Athens accepts millions of tourists each year. But doesn't anyone's heart burn when they know they're going through and watching "Apollos" and "Atticon" the way it is, with this savage around? Don't they mind walking to Stoa Arsaki in the Book and all the stores closed? It's like they're walking in a city bombed. This, Minister, cannot continue. I invoke your sensitivity. You have to do what you can, in collaboration with the mayor, to see where this story will go. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. You know, tears for Athens don't matter, because they have been replaced by indignation. I am not indignant, but I am sincerely in a personal and political crash, in a sense, as a citizen, as a resident of Athens and as a man, who loves the city that was born.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Madam Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to speak by telling you that I have asked a similar question to your predecessor, Minister, concerning the National Theatre of Rhodes, which I think you would have seen. This monument really collapsed in front of local authorities. It's between the town hall and the district. They saw it collapsed. So he collapsed not only with responsibilities of today's mayor. It's a time-consuming problem. I don't share responsibility right now. In reply to my question, however, your predecessor had said that he would take care of it, that he would coordinate all efforts, because culture is not just a question of the region or the mayor, etc., but the ministry must have a coordinating role in all of this, and even the government has a legislative role to play. It's bigger. It is not just the way he put it - and quite rightly so - Mr Lykoudis. It's about the country. So my own, if you want, voice and proposal at the moment, is to lead such an effort so that all these cases can be coordinated, because they are essentially serving culture. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u67	We can only welcome awareness of all this building stock in our country. But, as you said, Mr Lykoudi, you admitted, in time there is abandonment in these buildings and we cannot expect at a difficult time everything as magically restored one behind the other. Nevertheless, the Government and the Ministry of State today, in difficult circumstances, has set up a scientific team aiming at collecting, processing, evaluating and consulting the institutions, services and collectives to form a representative proposal for upgrading and renovating the Athens Centre with a possible notice of architectural competition. The main aim of upgrading and renovating is to design interventions, which will lead to what we all want, to resettle the region, to stimulate economic activity, to upgrade public space and sustainable mobility, to strengthen social infrastructure, such as schools, children's stations, playgrounds and, above all, to highlighting the region's historical, cultural and tourist character. And like you mentioned about the Panhellenic Association of Conservative Buildings and Monuments Owners, we are in constant contact and cooperation with this club and we are trying to find ways that will reduce the weight of the owners and enable them to restore their real estate. We have not reached a certain result yet, because as you can see, the project is not simple in the circumstances we are today. I also wanted to tell you that as you know - and I have told you in a previous reply - the Ministry of Culture constantly restores historical buildings such as: the twenty-two buildings, the MELT, Metropolis, Agios Konstantinos, the theatre "Rex", the National Theatre and the completion phase at the moment are the "Acropolis" and the Chiler-Loverd building. Like also the Ministry of Culture, as far as abandoned privately owned monuments are concerned, a proposal is being drawn up for their rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u68	With the Chiller Building, the building of Apollo and Attica, what is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u69	Mr Lykoudi, please, if you would like to have the debate with the Minister in particular, so that there is no debate now. Let us not have a debate now because time limits us. I have no other reason. You may then have a long debate, as you wish. We are now moving on to the next, first with number 3478/13-2-2018, question of the circle of petitions - questions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament of the New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “What is to come with the Theatrical Museum?” Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, because I have also followed the previous question, there is a study, Mr Lykoudi, carried out on my own initiative by the Institute of Local Government, with a committee, which was made with the President of the late Dimitrios Tsatsos. All these buildings that you say and the participation of Dimitrios Tsatsos have been recorded in the fact that, because many of them are legacy and cannot intervene, the Constitution protects them, it has made suggestions how, by presidential decrees, can be either from the Ministry of Culture, or from the State Building Society or private individuals, to overcome this problem. This study was delivered to my successor, closed in a drawer. But ask for it from the Institute of Local Government. And you, Minister, because I'm sure it doesn't exist at the Ministry. I now come to my question. If we have three things to show in this country, what is it? Our tourism, shipping and the Greek theatre. These three are, whether it's a time of crisis, or it's not a time of crisis. I come on the subject of the Theatrical Museum for two reasons: Firstly, because I saw reports saying "we entered the Theatrical Museum: dead rats, damaged exhibits, rotating evidence" and read in newspapers that they have been stolen from there and things that you are not responsible for, because it is housed - as you know - in a building belonging to the Municipality of Athens and the responsibility belongs to the municipal authority. It's unacceptable. And I haven't heard a word from Mr. Kamine about how thefts were made and what was lost from there. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] The second reason is because in 2009, Minister, I bought myself - not myself, but the municipal authority - as Mayor of Athenians, and not with the municipality's money, but it joined the program "THESIS" and bought a neoclassical building that is on Metropolitan Street, just in the sanctuary of Metropolis, Metropolitan and Petraki, seven hundred square meters, to become the new Theatrical Museum. The convention was signed and signed - I have the joint press conference with Mr Georgosopoulos - in the presence of many of your colleagues. The semi basement, which exists, we had decided to turn it into a little theater of fifty places and give it free of charge to young artists to present their work. I lost the elections at the end of 2010. And from that moment on, and after eight years, this building has been closed. It's all set. Until we had planned on the last floor to make an artistic cafeteria. We would even put in the duvet embedded microphones so that anyone who wants them to drink their coffee can hear classical music. I read, of course, that you chose a building on Stadium Street to do this. But you will allow me to tell you - because now you know the Greek bureaucracy, we old people have known it for years - that there is this building ready, empty. Eight years the Municipality of Athens has done nothing. Now, because they started calling him the Municipality of Athens, I heard there will be a museum of Maria Kallas, which I had almost ready in one of the two barrels in Technopolis. And they never opened it, don't say that Kaklamanis had done it. Whatever I had done, they preferred to be buried. So why don't you go to the ready building? I'm afraid this building needs reconstruction from what I understand, it needs studies, it needs a lot of money while the other one's ready. It is in operation - at least in formal terms - the programming contract. And do something else about that building. So that's the question. And I think something will come out of here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u71	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kaklamanis, I kept the answer to this question about the building of the Metropolitan Street. But because you have given him particular emphasis, I will start with that. First of all, it is very honouring that you first showed a sensitivity to the Theatrical Museum and proceeded with the concession of a emblematic building. As we all know, the Theatrical Museum is not some marinas with some objects. It is the entire ark of modern Greek culture, of newer art, expressed through the participation of great creators in the theatre. Also, there is a library of enormous value, which is part of the property of the Theatrical Museum. As you said, you had indeed ensured. And we have investigated this very carefully theme of the Metropolitan Street. There are two data on this area: the first and the forbidden is that Mr Kamines is refusing to deliver it. In fact, he had made another statement himself, that there would be a Callas museum. Meanwhile, another Kallas Museum is being prepared at the house of Maria Callas, which is perhaps the most suitable place to become the museum. In any case, Mr Kamines is not willing to give it. A second parameter, which must also be taken seriously into account, is that this space is not enough to accommodate both the exhibits and the library. Something that we thought very carefully is to be able to make a place, which is not just an exhibition and museum, but it will also be a living core of study, research, documentation, including the library. That is why, given the refusal of the current mayor, we have come to find a new site. And we're very happy that this place belongs to Alexander Sutsu's legacy. And of course, the very good relationship we have with the administration of the National Gallery has allowed us to find a very good concession agreement. We have also guaranteed that we have already tabled the proposal and we hope that a favourable response will be found to the restoration of the building. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, first of all, I am very much inclined to say that I am, today, officially informed that you are making contact with the Municipality of Athens and the Municipality of Athens refuses to grant it. And you know why? Because this had been done by almost unanimous decision of the then municipal council. So, in order to refuse to grant it, it must have brought the matter back to the city council. And the municipal council, which has a majority of Mr Kamine, to lift the previous decision, which has not been made. So it is not the will of any mayor to give or not to give, when there is a municipal council decision - and I insist, and I tell you - a great deal of cooperation. Indeed, the space - Mr Georgosopoulos had told us - did not fit the library, but we had tried to find a way to digitize the library of the Theatrical Museum and include it in a space of the municipal library. They wouldn't be together, the truth is, but from that mess that exists now it was ten ladders better that I'm telling you. There's something that worries me. I know you're trying to do the Stadium Street building. But when I see how many years have passed - you answered and admitted it - to operate the Museum of Contemporary Art, with the studies, with the lack of money, I am creeping into the thought after how many years the Theatrical Museum will probably be inaugurated in a building that needs a depth upgrade, from static study to I don't know what. I'm afraid after five years, we'll talk about the Theatrical Museum again. While the first installation of a track at least, for example the exhibits that exist and rot in the underground of the building at the Academy Street, could have been done for five to six years. And as you know, it's at the corner of Metropolitan and Petrakis, at a point of highly visited, highly visited, not only for the Greeks, because we were interested in projection outside. That's why I don't question you. You, as a theatre, need to take this on you. Allow me the expression "theatre", which I like for the actors of the theatre. I was a little kid on my island, Andros, a high school student and then I listened every Sunday at 13.15' on the show "The Theatre in Microphone" by Achilles Makis. I remember a Paxinos interview that Achilles Mumakis said to her that he is a great actor and she interrupted him and said to him: "I am not an actor, I am a theatre. That's what you'll call me." I have that phrase left, and I like it for actors, especially the theater. It has happened and it is the Minister of Culture, I repeat, a very important theatre of the younger generation. This must be done on your days. It'll be something that'll follow you. As will be something that follows you, if you do not do something about it. It's a sin that thing. I think there will be no wing in the House that will not help this thing. There's no way at all. Seek, as I told you, from the Institute of Local Government the study of Dimitrios Tsatsos. He was the head of a team, not legal, but engineers, architects, etc. He put his legal touch on. I remember that he had told me - listen, Mr Lykoudi - that the greatest owner of the abandoned buildings, which we had recorded all in this study, is the Greek State, with the First State Company, the Ministry of Culture and their third parties. I until that moment I thought it was most private buildings waiting for some flooding, some earthquake to be demolished, to give them a fair share. I had this picture. Finally, the great owners are the Greek state, the Public Building Company and immediately after the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u76	Of course, you understand that my heart is there and it's just to help restore the Theatrical Museum. However, the problem associated with the Theatrical Museum is very complex, it is not simple. As you know, it is a private body, which was sponsored ad hoc by the Minister of Culture, on the basis of grants that each year were different depending on the possibilities. I am very well aware of the anxiety of the administration and especially Mr Georgosopoulos about the sustainability of this body. These grants, which were never in the form of a programme contract, were stopped in 2012. Since then, the museum has accumulated debts. There's an employee overfill...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Georgesopoulos is being persecuted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u78	Of course, like all the presidents and CEOs, who have personal responsibility. Therefore, these debts could not be dealt with by the Ministry of Culture - and even now - simply because they concern a private body. Since 2016, by my predecessor, Mr. Baltas, for the first time was designated by the Central Council of Modern Monuments as a new monument, the content of the museum. It's the first mass declaration of collector's items. This first important step towards rescuing the collection opened us up so that we could face a step - step by step - this complex problem. It has already been done, so the objects of the Theatre Museum have been fully recorded and illustrated, and the situation of the books of this very important library - not least - has been transferred after too much effort - to the ERT and is currently being kept to free the property of Karamanlakis, precisely so that other debts are not accumulated. Also, an exceptional grant was granted to the National Theatre of EUR 450,000 to deal with exceptional cases, such as the transfer and now the one that will start at the Academy Street, a maintenance and restoration of the exhibits and their protection until it is time for them to be transferred. Because, as you have said, the building has had protection and security problems so far. So the maintenance department of the Ministry of Culture comes in and will be decontamination, cleansing and conservation of the exhibits. I myself went to see - you also referred to autopsy - and fortunately, there are no damages and there are no losses. This is very important. Also, on the issue of debts, because due to the debts the President and the Vice President are being prosecuted, they need to be dealt with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u79	But make it clear that they are persecuted for formal reasons, not because people have done something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u80	Of course. But in order to be able to deal with them, the solution we have proposed is to transfer the museum to the public sector - which was accepted by the administrative boards and the Theatrical Museum and the Society of Greek Authors - and in this way, as a payment of this market, the debts will also be paid. We are in this direction because we believe that this museum should indeed have a public character. What we have already done is that we have asked the National Theatre to act as an intermediary to handle this amount that we have given, but also after the amount we are trying to ensure from the Public Investment Program for the restoration of Stage 47 building, which will further reform this area, since it is between the Art Theatre and the National Theatre. I would also like to say that this is the first time that this problem has been tackled with an integrated proposal. We know the proposal you've made for the Metropolitan. Unfortunately, then, Mr Kamines convinced Mr. Georgosopoulos and the administration that he would offer them a better space, a bigger one, which was not the case, and that was not the case. For the first time, we are making a full proposal, complete. We know it takes time, but we take all the precautions to maintain and safeguard the museum's exhibits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. We move to the seventh under No. 1513-17-2018 topical question by Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “PROVET’s unpaid workers are employed in the production of veterinary medicinal products”. This question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the company 'ProVET' still does not pay the employees for a long time and, of course, it is not possible for workers to meet their basic needs. We note that this is the only factory that produces veterinary medicinal products in Greece. In fact, he also had export activity in the Balkan and Europe countries in the past few years. Since the beginning of June 2017 more than thirty employees have been working on a job - almost a year - claiming their wages in this way. So far there have been three meetings at the Ministry of Labour, which have been fruitless. Also, so many times the employees have resorted to the Labour Inspectorate in Ano Liosia on the same subject, that is to say, for the payment of the prizes that since February 2017 there has been a delay, Minister, as well as the leave allowance and the Christmas gift. The management of the company has so far paid only part of the 2017 Christmas gift. The workers have moved legally. There is a decision that justifies them for the four months of their employment. On the occasion of the judgment and the judgment, they require that the wages due be paid immediately. At the last meeting at the Ministry of Labour, the representatives of the company presented a proposal for the payment of the amounts accrued in eight monthly instalments, starting on 1 May. The workers rejected this proposal, considering that their administration is hampering them, as it does so much time. All this time of racing the workers are claiming their right, the company, by concluding a contract with a donor, normally continues to produce veterinary medicinal products and employs a sufficient number of workers while several new recruitments have been made. Nevertheless, these young workers, too, have problems mainly with the delay in payroll, which is now about two months old, and, of course, with the five-month-olds due to them since 2017. We ask the Minister: What measures will you take to remove the deadlock in which the workers of this company find themselves? We call for all workers to be paid immediately and for no further delay in their payroll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u83	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u84	MEP, as in similar cases, the Ministry of Labour is making use of every available tool available in order to be able to stand by the workers and to form the conditions to meet their legitimate demands, as is the case here. This company, "PROVET", is a breaching undertaking, which has been employed too many times by the Ministry of Labour. I will tell you what we have done so far in order to force the company to comply with its obligations. The first concerns the Labour Inspectorate, one in November 2017 for debts in the period from February to August 2017 and one in February 2018 for the issue of non-paid leave and leave allowance for 2017, following a complaint again by the employees. As you have rightly said, the company has tried to challenge the legality of the employment in which the workers have been brought before it, and this action has been unfavourable, because the court has held the employment in which the workers are employed. I continue with the actions of the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour. The Labour Inspectorate submitted two monthly reports, against the employer at the appropriate prosecutor in November 2017 and March 2018, precisely for the unpaid employees and unpaid allowances. Third, the Ministry of Labour carried out two tripartite conciliation meetings at the Ministry of Labour, in the presence of the Ministry's Secretary General, one in June 2017 and one in March 2018. There, in the last three-day meeting at least, the employer presented a repayment plan within eight monthly instalments of workers due, a proposal which the workers rejected. For his part, the Ministry of Labour demanded that the company immediately pay the employees. The Ministry in fact called on the company immediately to give a first amount and immediately thereafter to repay the employees. Where are we now? At the moment, the Work Relations Department has asked the company to provide detailed payroll statements and clearing notes for the last two months, that is, February and March 2018, as well as for the period from February 2017 to August 2017 for all employees. We are therefore at this stage that we have demanded by means of a audit report that the company submits to us the clearing, payrolls and present the payroll of the workers. If it does not submit these requested documents, we will impose administrative sanctions. In other words, as far as this company is concerned, the Ministry of Labour has exhausted or rather exploited, I would not say 'neutral', because our political decision is that we will continue to create all those pressure conditions until the workers' demands are met. However, you can see that we have been using all the tools at our disposal throughout this period to force the company to comply with its obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u85	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u86	Minister, we have had a lot of discussions here on the situation in the private sector with those workers who are unpaid, who are not insured, where labour relations have become a great regime within every workplace. You said today that you are using every instrument available to you as a Ministry of Labour to force employers to self-evidently. So what? To pay workers normally and not to delay a year or not to pay workers at all. You always say what you did like a ministry and we always tell you what the result of all these actions is, because that is what matters at the end, if you really are a ministry you have exhausted. You said you were exhausted, but then you corrected it. You said you were making use of all your resources. We say you don't exhaust it, Minister. What do we mean by that? That there are tools available to the government in cooperation with other ministries, with which you can oblige the employer, if anything else where he is commanding other things, to prioritise first and foremost the payment of recruited workers who live and survive their work. There can be no worker who can't be paid. Is it possible that the workers are not paid here and that they can live, not claim their remuneration, that you do not claim your remuneration? How will you live? How do these workers live? Who will be interested in those who work and the employer comes and says 'I don't pay them, because I decide to do something else with the prizes I don't pay, finance my business' - that is what PROVET does - or, anyway, make purchases of products, save them so that they can be sold later with a greater profit. It is not possible, therefore, for the Ministry of Labour not to exhaust all possibilities it has as a government, as a Ministry, and not to oblige the employer to do so. Madam Minister, we have brought an amendment here to the effect that no self-payments should be made. That doesn't exist. You did not accept it, Minister, because there is this climate here that a saver of the economy is the private initiative, which you of course serve. Today, despite the fact that you are saying that we are heading towards normality, toward the exit from the memoranda, workers are still unpaid and are indeed in fame in any such business, which operates and does not pay the workers, i.e. there is no self-evident thing, that I work and must be paid. These, Minister, cannot go unnoticed in the world and I believe that you have responsibility as government to signal such messages that the payment of recruits cannot exist. The amendment we have tabled I believe that you yourself should think about it, bring it back, if you really want to ensure it, namely that employees are paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u87	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u88	Mr Katsotis, we do this debate several times. I would like to say from the outset what the tools the State has in terms of labour relations in the private sector. Is it quite different to talk about the public sector and the state's responsibility in relation to the payment of workers there, in what sense? Not that the responsibility of the State for the workers is less or is not greater for them, but that the possibilities of the State in the case of work in the private sector are different. What possibilities does the State and the Government and the Ministry of Labour have in the case of private sector workers? It's three. The first is the institutional framework, the legislative framework, that is to say, if we legislate such arrangements that can protect and strengthen workers. Secondly, there is the possibility of monitoring mechanisms, that is, that you can check whether they are complied with and if they are not complied with, that you impose administrative and criminal penalties, which, in the case of workers, the Labour Inspectorate is this instrument. Thirdly, the Ministry of Labour itself, its central body having its doors open and trying to bring both sides to the same table in order to find solutions that will serve - in the case of our own government - the interests of workers and their fair demands. What is the Ministry of Labour from 2015 to today? To the maximum extent, these three tools shall be valued. It values legislation with all potential. I have a reservation here, because you know that we are in a programme of fiscal adjustment and we are not free to legislate on labour issues. There is the completely opposite view of lenders in relation to the labour market, with which we have to conflict and often compromise. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Nevertheless, we have managed to legislate that there have not been many years in the Greek labour market and long before the crisis. Law 4488, which was passed in September 2017 by the Parliament and recommended by the Ministry of Labour, was a law aimed primarily at protecting workers from unpaid, undeclared and undeclared work. We have given them the opportunity to issue an enforceable title against the property of the employer to cover, if they have not been paid, their employees can have a quick trial of their wage claims in the courts - and that, as far as I am aware, is already the case in the large courts of Athens and Thessaloniki, decisions are now coming out too quickly for workers in the event of unpaid wages - to be able to consider - after your own amendment this third amendment was made - the non-payment of their wages as a one-sided change in working conditions and to leave an undertaking that enclaves them, to be able to receive unemployment benefit on the next day from the OAED, which was not the case before. We have activated supportive tools, such as the allowance for the thousands of euros that we give workers to meet their direct pressure material needs, when they are unpaid, a tool that was and had not been used by the previous governments and a number of institutional interventions. Then and then all the time. In two weeks' time we will table a new bill for the protection of workers and contractors and you will see it. It is therefore a series of institutional interventions which strengthen the position of workers and shield them against unpaid work. Does the law or the interventions we make solve all the problems? Oh, no. If he solved them, as you say, there would be no such phenomena. However, it is not right to say that things are not done and that these things do not work. The presence of the Labour Inspectorate in the labour market over the past year and a half has changed the way very large companies operate. You talked about what we're texting. Over the past year, two million euros have been fined on systemic banks for breaches of labour law. Did this happen before? Does this not send a message to the major employers that there are no immunitys here? Why didn't that happen before? Fine messages are sent and the Labour Inspectorate is doing his job out there, and this workers are starting to feel it. I'm not saying problems have been solved. I'd be from another planet, if I said it, but I'm sure the qualitative differences are traced. The third concern of the Ministry's intervention is that the Ministry of Labour holds at least twice a week tripartite conciliation meetings - the majority with the Secretary-General's presence - in order to force businesses to comply. The vast majority end up in favour of workers. Let me just remind you of the issue of Kavala Fertilizers, a flagrant struggle by the workers, who, with the support of the Ministry of Labour, supported by the Secretary-General and with the strong presence of the association, had an extremely happy end to the workers who returned to their jobs and stopped these mafia practices used by the employer. So I do not think it has anything to do with this reality, the absolute depreciation of the work done by the Ministry of Labour lately with regard to the labour market. I'm closing up with the criminal matter you mentioned. I've legally explained this to you next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u89	Mrs. Ahchioglu, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u90	I want a second, Mr President. Non-payment of accrued remuneration is a criminal offence from the very next day. The self-contained process already exists. I do not understand why you think that does not exist. There is already this and it is institutionalised many years ago, if I'm not mistaken. The law has been in existence since 1950 or 1960 and says that non-paid remuneration is a criminal offence from the next day and there is a self-evident procedure. Therefore, it is not applicable that this does not exist in law. There's legal in there. It has been institutionalised for too many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Katsotis, I'm going to interrupt you. There will be no debate, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u93	For the first time, you didn't answer. There must be progress in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Kataotis, I'm sorry. There's not going to be a conversation. I would also ask the Minister and my fellow Members to be consistent in time, because we have to hand over the Chamber. We don't have time, or we'll hand over the Hall. Otherwise why don't I give you one and two minutes. We shall now proceed to the next question, with request once again that the time be respected. Next is the eighth Question No 1392-26-2018 of the SYRIZA MP, Christos Beyala, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Reconstitution of the Chamber of Labour Inspectors’ (SEPE)’. Please, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have tabled this topical question - it is an issue which I think has to do with the previous question - the operation of the Labour Inspectorate in the Grevenes Law. Grevenns Prefect from 2014 with the n.o.b. 113 on 29-8-2014 stopped having a Labour Inspectorate, APR, and was attached to Kosani. It was converted from a Grevena Labour Inspectorate to a Kozani-Grevennes-based labour inspectorate based in Kozani. This, of course, creates, as you can imagine, a number of problems for both workers and employers in the region, because they are forced to move about eighty miles away for any work they have to do in the Labour Inspectorate. Furthermore, I would point out that in western Macedonia the Grevenes Prefecture is the only county that has no Labour Inspectorate. With the n.e.c. 134/2017 the new Agency of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security was approved, but it was not included there, because the official of the Grevenes SAR did not have the necessary training, so that he could function as an inspector, after oral consultation with the Special Secretary of the APRC. Today this process has been completed. I would like to point out that by abolishing the Grevenna EPA office, which is housed in the district's command office. There is, in other words, the official staff of an official who also has the certification by the agency to operate as an inspector. There is also interest in some of the service employees for transferring to the APRC office. In other words, the operation of the EIA in Grevenna does not cost the service. No operating costs, no rents, no other costs. We ask you for the necessary decision on the functioning and establishment of this Labour Inspectorate. I would like to point out here that we had discussed this together quite early. I first sent you an email when you were head of the Ministry of Labour in November 2015. However, the procedures have also been completed with the Presidential Decree and we expect you to have the decision to set up the EMS, which will also restore the sense of safety to the workers, but will also facilitate the employers who have so far been troubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u96	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u97	On the occasion of your question, I would like to say two things in relation to the Labour Inspectorate, which I think many times have not been conscious of the world outside and working and it is important to know them. Since the first time, the Government has taken up its work as its main priority the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate, which is, as I have explained before, the main arm with which the Ministry of Labour can intervene in practice in the workplace. We are serving this priority with absolute devotion, and from where, when we received, we had a body fully degraded, which did not work, they had abolished basic parts, they had very much reduced their organic positions, they did not have a presence on the labour market that feels and the worker is at his side, and we now have a body that intervenes daily in the workplace, the workers feel that there is a very strong alliance and that restricts the phenomena of infraction. The results of this work are already shown. Undeclared work in the highly invasive sectors has been reduced since 19%, which was when we received it, to 12% in the middle of 2018. I believe that 2018 will be closed at an even lower rate. At the same time, if I can, I would like to say quite briefly two more words about upgrading, firstly, we have activated an integrated information system in the Labour Inspectorate, so that the checks carried out are targeted and thus more effective. As I said, we have designed a new organogram in the body so that we can increase its organic positions by about forty, when - to note - the previous government had abolished some two hundred organic posts in the Labour Inspectorate. We also made new recruitments, i.e. we strengthened it with staff, because an audit body must firstly have human resources and we re-established two very basic sections: The Legal Support Department and the Information Systems Department which had also been abolished by the previous government. As far as the Grevenes are concerned, there has been a need for advancement and we will actually open up the labour relations inspection department in both Grevenes and Orestiad. I would like to mention it so that people know it there too. At the same time, four new sections created with the new organisation will be added, two labour relations inspection departments in Messolong and Thesprotia and two safety and health inspection departments for work in Halkidiki and Imathia. I think that in this way, with the new sections that open up both in Grevena and in Mesolonghi and in Orestiad, we will now be able to have even better intervention in all workplaces on the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Beyla, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. I think it fully satisfys the feeling, not mine, but the feeling of the Grevenes society. I told you there are also the employers who want to operate the APRC office. Just one question: If we can, we must have a timetable for the completion of the process, so that we can be concrete and concrete in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u100	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u101	The Chambers shall be constituted by a Presidential Decree. At the moment, on our side, the presidential decree has been designed and is in the co-legislative ministries for signature. In these cases, the Council of State needs an opinion. We appreciate that since September they will be able to open these sections that I told you and the Grevenas Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u102	We go to the ninth with no. 1333/19-3-2018 topical question of the second question of the Grevena MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Security with bachelor to operators - drivers of agricultural machinery". Mr. Beyala, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u103	Minister, this is an issue which, of course, not only concerns the Grevennes Prefecture, it concerns Greece, the whole of the rural world, but also the collection of production, the whole process of agricultural production from sowing, planting, cultivation and harvesting. I am thinking of operators and drivers of agricultural machinery and of these accessories, which, unfortunately, do not predict how they can be insured. The owners, the operator of the farm machinery often attempt to secure them under the IKA procedures. But here, we have the completely different situation where neither the working timetable can be applied, nor the working days. And what do I mean by that? I mean that the levy or harvesting of a production cannot operate at a specific time. In view of the new period when the harvesting machines will come out to make the harvesting of cereals, you realise that this must work and the harvest should be done if possible at a single time and not at a certain hour. In other words, since both the nature of work and the crop and the harvest are limited - it is a limited amount of time on the substance - and it is a flat-rate payment, I think that their insurance can also solve the problems of uninsured work in this area, give a sense of the safety of workers for any accident or accident, but also of their insurance, but also of the safety of employers, that they do not have uninsured workers and at the same time justify the exit of their work, and that they also justify the workers to declare their income. I am referring, for example, to siliceous, cotton-semi-milling, tomato-smoking machinery and their accessories. It is important that this sector of workers, but also production, have the security that it needs. I have also raised another matter in the same question. I would like to make it clear to the agricultural production that every farmer, a farmer, a farmer can include in the bachelor and members of his family, his wife or his children. For wives, because it is not clear, I think that in the same provision this can be clarified. All it takes is for v.4144/2013 to be added to the case of operators - drivers of agricultural machinery and this category of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u104	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u105	Mr Beyala, I think we need to pay attention to the issue of the construction project, that is to say, why this tool was originally introduced. When the bachelor was introduced, it was established with a declared aim to protect against many forms of undeclared work and actually create an insurance conscience in order to make the contributions for those workers who have been working in such a context that until then it has been extremely impossible and it is impossible to carry out checks. This was the proclaimed goal of establishing the works. Since then, however, the use of the building and especially its abuse have caused too many questions. Let me say that the basic philosophy of the work was to be able to understand those cases of workers, involving work at home mainly. This was the point of setting up the works, i.e. working things that took place behind the door of the home asylum and which could not be checked, it was impossible to check. In order for these people to be able to be insured in cases where there is no control and to establish a flexible form of payment of their wages and contributions, the bachelor was introduced. The mistress is not to replace the insurance of those workers who have all the characteristics of the wage earner's work for it, and I think that all the debate on its extension is very much needed. There are daily discussions and requests to the Ministry of Labour to extend the use of the plant. I believe, however, that it is particularly important to do so because, through the use of the ergonomie, you are bypassing all the rules applicable to employed work, that is to say, you cannot pay allowances or you cannot control the payment of allowances for holidays and leave, compensation for dismissal, the granting of normal leave, whether the working time limits are respected, whether there are increases to overtime, whether there is night work and paid, etc. Nowadays it is being used abusively to workers who belong to the categories of the plant, but their employment is not occasional. It was only a matter of occasional employment that was introduced. At the moment there are no systems of effective control of the correct application of this tool. In other words, the position of the Ministry of Labour is that we should be very careful about extending the tool of the work. This is not a political priority for us. Our political priority is to create all the conditions for respect for labour law applicable to the dependent employment relationship. That is why we have made all these speeches which I have made briefly before Mr Katsotis, which relate precisely to strengthening and facilitating the respect of labour legislation for the employers who are consistent, but also to facilitating controls by the Labour Inspectorate. The case of the ergonomie is often quite dangerous, because it can give a cover for violations of all the framework of labour legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Beyala, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u107	Madam Minister, I do not disagree at all with what you have said in the following respects: we are not talking here about wage-earning, as we know in all the other manifestations of the labour force, throughout production. We are talking about the primary sector, which, as you said, has been mentioned - and, of course, - about homework, but its greatest usefulness, function and application since 2013 is in the primary sector and I am referring to the land workers. There is its greatest application until today. And they're there because they really have occasional employment. What I am saying to you, namely adding next to the land workers and the concept of operators, the drivers of agricultural machinery, is that we are again talking about occasional employment and with a flat-rate fee. We are not talking about abolishing all the characteristics of the wage labour here, there are no such features and we are not talking about abuse of the terms of labour legislation. I can hardly tell you that it has the same characteristics as the primary sector, agricultural production, sowing, harvesting, which is a classic case of occasional employment. I would like to tell you here, of course, that if we do not do that - we all know and know that - the Labour Inspectorate has a huge difficulty in controlling the worker in the field. And check him out which periods and seasons? Will it go at 20:00 now in the summer to tell one employee in the field "You're not in the working table 20:00"? Clearly it won't. Yeah, but you're gonna tell the producer and the employee themselves that right now you shouldn't be working until 15:00. Do you have to stop? Since labour dependency, hours of work in the primary sector are not defined by the employer but by weather conditions, so it also involves this difference between land workers and the operators of agricultural machinery. In addition, I would like to say to you this: there are several thousand agricultural machinery and farm machinery, but also the producers themselves, farmers, farmers and occasional workers to do some work. This is all uninsured work, with what it implies, plus that many hundreds of thousands of euros annual income to the ECA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And let me tell you this, that I also have a document from the Association of Indigenous Greeks, which now requires. They want it, too, to have their own safety guaranteed that in an accident at work they will not be able to justify their expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u108	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u109	I'm closing, Mr. President. And this was done on my own initiative, Mr President - I would like to say this in the brief last year in a debate that we said to them 'what did you do with this matter'? And they said, "We're just in the air and those who insure with IKA put hours 8.00" -16.00" the time. Yes, but the harvesting of the wheat will go and 20 a.m. and 22 a.m. and if it rains if it does not rain, it is the weather that determines it. We're just on the air." When I suggested, at first it seemed strange. I have explained it to them today and ask for it in a document which I can table.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u110	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Ephi Ahtsoglou, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Beyala, let's see what the work you're describing has, let's see if it's dependent. You're talking about the operators of the farm machinery. Is there an employer's mandate to provide the job at a specific place and at a specific time? There is. Is it done by means of the employer? As a rule, yes, it's in the middle of the employer. Is there a management and quality control of the results of work by the employer? Is there any concrete results in the way the employer suggests? There is. What I have mentioned are elements in the definition of dependent labour. So here we cannot accept that there is no work to be done. In this sense, we cannot extend a tool which is not for a dependent job, because this is a work that is dependent. You mentioned too many times the change of hours, that you may have to go at night or at noon, etc. There is absolutely no disagreement on that. I do not understand why this runs counter to the fact that we are working here and that the rules of labour law applicable to all other cases of dependent labour must be respected. I understand that what you are trying to say is that it is very difficult to indicate working hours when it is so volatile from weather and other factors. That is why we have been working for the overall upgrading and adaptation of the framework of the workers' declaration for the past year. I think that in a very short time we will be able to declare the working hours with a simple sms. That is what you understand that is extremely easy. Well, I mean, with a simple sms saying I'm finally not gonna do my job from 10:00 to 14:00, I'm gonna do it from 18:00 to 20:00. Our aim is not to overweight employers with bureaucratic costs, burdens and procedures. On the other hand, you can understand that, when we make it easier for them with such tools - and in this direction we are moving - I do not think there is any other argument why the rules of labour law should not be complied with. Because if we extend the single market to this category, we are basically accepting that all other rules on wage earners will not be complied with. It will not be possible to check whether this man worked ten hours or twenty-four hours, if he worked very late at night, if he received an allowance, whether he was given compensation or not. That is why I think you should rethink the request to extend the plant in these cases. And to see how we can make it easier for employers to declare their workers and their hours and the Labour Inspectorate to do its control. Because, if I understand correctly, our common understanding is that here the first to be protected is the worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u112	We shall now proceed to the last question, and I would ask Mr Amyras, that the time be respected. Next, the third, with No. 1527/194-2018, is the topical question of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Except for the bicycle our athletes at the OASA”. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Vasiliadis. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm here on my favorite topic, Greek cycling, and here's the game. As a known country, despite being a small country, Greece has a huge racing, sporting cycling tradition. The first golden Olympian in 1896 was then Greek, Aristides Constantinidis, who ran eighty-seven kilometers, Athens - Marathon - Faliro. I say this because the baton of Constantinidis to a large extent has been taken in a commendable and nice manner by Greek athletes, champions, at a global and pan-European level, with Olympic participations. And they're excellent kids, they're moral. I will mention, for example, Christos and Zafiri Volikakis, Pericles Ilias, Dimitris Antoniadis, Stavrakis Giorgos. They're excellent kids. A month ago, however, they went to OASA, to the bike street and unfortunately found it closed. It was closed for the athletes of the national team, because the Greek Cycling Federation could not pay the price for using the bike per day. The federation reported that it has not received its approved funding from your Ministry for 2017. So I come and ask: where is this unjustified, first and foremost, delay in the signed ministerial decisions to fund the federation for 2017? What about this year, in 2018? I am particularly interested in how to ensure that the Greek athletes of the National Cycling Team and not only the clubs, all Greek cycling athletes, have access to the bicycle road. This is to keep my time and I will come back with second evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u114	The State Secretary, Mr Vasiliadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, first of all I am delighted to hear you say that you are aware of this. The Greek Cycling Federation is shaken by very big problems and very large shadows that come from the past. It's not here to talk about this, but we had some data on 2017. There was a fine for counterfeit and virtual invoices of 800,000 euros, which meant that, in case the Greek State, the General Secretariat of Sports, paid the regular grant, it would immediately be seized by the ADP. At the same time, it was impossible for the services to approve such a financial warrant, given that the rules of the law and of the Constitution on financial support for sport were being violated. We give money - often, of course, they go to economic unfinished business, but... - to facilitate and promote and defend sport. This was not the case. It was therefore impossible to make such payment. Now let's have a look at today. Since the beginning of the year, I have met with the new administration of the federation many times, and we have discussed several solutions so that the federation can stand up and rationalise the situation. I suggested that they be put into the extrajudicial mechanism, I suggested that they have sworn auditors to check from 2000 until today what happened, so that accountability can also be made and our hands resolved. Because, you know, when we go to share public money, we will also be accountable tomorrow and not all of us should repeat the mistakes of the past. There was a blockage, although it seemed that there was a good response from the Cycling Federation. We have a new plea, but it remains to be seen in the next few months, because they will be brought to justice. There is a decision of the Administrative Court of Athens, which rejected the rejection of an appeal by the competent management of the ADI and the debt was finally reduced to EUR 25 000. We have had legal proceedings, we still have no information from the AIA about this. But in any case, we want, as an essential element, to start financial control in the federation. All this time we have ensured workers' payroll and, in cooperation with the ADP, this money is inappropriate, it is payroll money and we are trying to keep it going. The cycling run normally for the Hellene Championship with solutions that we found from the administration, has never been closed for athletes. And I am making it clear, whatever happens in the federation, and whatever we hear or read - I suppose we will discuss them in the second round - there is no way that the Greek racing bike will not have a place that can be used for training, such as the Olympic Stadium, with the problems that it has, of course, very great problems. That's what I'm coming back to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Amyras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I keep what you said at the end that no matter what happens our athletes will have access to the OAS to train. Let's not forget that in two years from now in Tokyo we have the Olympic Games. Let's not forget that, for example, Vollakis is the first in the world to rank. We must strengthen him and not only him, but also our other athletes and the least known ones. I remember here, in this Chamber, Mr President, having called on the Olympians and the athletes and spoke to Anna Korakakis, for example, our Olympics in the shooting, which had said the simple thing, which at least I agree entirely with, that sport equals development. And, when we say growth, we speak not only closely economic but also cultural, spiritual, psychological, a thousand two. This term stands for a thousand or two concepts. Dear Minister, I know that the debt has indeed been identified and it has come down from 800,000 euros to 27,000 to 26,000 euros, I don't know exactly how much it is. I have the feeling that Mr. New Sharres is doing a good job and finding solutions. But now I want to tell you this. I want to make you a partner in something that I think will have beneficial, very positive consequences for cycling, not for racing, for sports, but also for tourists for the country. I have met with Mrs Koundoura, I have made an appointment with Mr Spirtzi, but, first of all, I have spoken with TRAINOSE to do this. What do I mean by 'do'? To allow the network of the Peloponnese rail network, which is known to be closed, to be used as bicycles. You probably know them, they're those bike seats that go on the rails of the train and families can make bicycles, rail tourism. This is happening in Germany, it is happening in Canada, and suddenly I will only tell you that from Germany, dear minister, thirty small local companies were created by local people on a case-by-case basis and rent these cresins in an abandoned railway line in America and within three months - the line is small, only thirty kilometers [30 km] and all - it was visited by eighty thousand families who wanted to cycl. For example, we from Elefsina to Katera, to Ekaia Skala, to say so, have twenty kilometers of untapped rail network. And "TRAINOSE" tells me: "Of course, it's a very good idea. Coordinate her. We will simply not put up money, we will give you the opportunity to use the tracks, which we do not use anyway, but to consult with the ministries." What's my vision, dear Minister? How do these small local companies rent canoe-cayaks in rivers and mountains or bicycles or, in any case, micro-activity...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u118	Please finish, Mr. Amyras. We have a matter of time to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. My vision is to let local people work with such alternative tourist activities and, of course, to promote extremely rail cycling tourism, which I tell you is a part of a healthy economic profile for a country like ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mr Secretary, you have the floor, however, to be brief, because we have to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I will be very brief. First of all, the last thing you said. Looks like an excellent idea. I would like to talk about it in greater depth, see the technical issues, such as, for example, reading them, etc., but here, especially in the Peloponnese and through the national sports centres that we have there and which belong to the public if we can help run, give the dungeon, anyway, which, unfortunately, needs many times from the public. From that point on, our athletes will have easy access to the OAS in this problematic facility. I would remind you that it is an installation in which, as it has been built and built, we pay EUR 500,000 for oil so that children do not have heating. Children are freezing, and yet it costs the public 500,000 euros. We are of the opinion, and I am of the opinion - and in this tactic we are working, although we are fighting with the federation and with Mr Sarris, who is really trying to find solutions within this globe of problems - that one should be made of a smaller one - not on a track - and less costly cycling route, so that cycling can stand on its feet again, namely, that we will now take all the necessary measures, give money, control, make the necessary moves, but, as long as there is the black hole in the OAS, it will increase my debt of cycling to 500,000 euros per year. That doesn't lead anywhere. That's what I wanted to say, and I'm waiting to talk to you, because it's a really great idea, and we're investing in the alternative actions of sport tourism. They are key to our country, and may in this way develop micro-economics, which are key to the development that we all want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u122	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-26-S1-commons.u123	With the agreement of the House at 11.45 minutes the sitting is closed for today, Thursday, 26 April 2018 at 13.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a special plenary session at which the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, will come to the Greek Parliament and will be addressed to this House under the special agenda.
