ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 9 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 125/5-11-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Anxiocratic and deep party choices of training coordinators". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 117/30-10-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: “At the immediate treatment of the problems of Argolida's export company GERFA - G.N. Francesco - two thousand producers, four hundred and seven hundred workers in the air." 3. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 4. The question by No. 134/6-11-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lacks of teachers in high school, high school and professional high school (EPAL) in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kozani of New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: ‘Relocation of the settlement of the Akrini Municipality of Kosanis’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 135/6-11-2018 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "For the Operations Department in Lefkada". 3. The 119/1-11-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Aristides Fokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Free movement of drugs at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki". 4. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "To adjust fifty instalments from PPC to TWG Ion - Drepanos - Asine and the other TWG". 5. The 114/30-10-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Direct action to protect workers at the LARCO plant" in Larymna Fthiotis, in order to avoid accidents at work". 6. The 113/30-10-2018 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Great shortages of teaching staff in the Secondary Education of Piraeus". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 90/23-10-2018 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Dues to teaching staff in Secondary Education in Halkidiki". 8. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 9. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 10. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 2023/1-10-10-10-2018 of the MP for the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "The Charter of Higher Education in Elia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1326/6-9-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops". 3. Question No 1048/30-8-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKEKKKEKKEKKEKIKEKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized, thirty students and students and three educational escorts from Piraeus Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must tell you that you are attending a special meeting called parliamentary scrutiny, where Members are coming and asking the relevant ministers on various issues and the Ministers are answering. That is why you can see that the seats are empty, because that is the procedure. If it were ten Members here today, we'd have ten questions. Mr Kegeroglu is here today to ask a question, which you will of course hear, as will the Minister's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Independent MP II of Athens, Mr. Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from November 8th to November 10th 2018. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias also asks for a short-day absence abroad from November 13 to November 14, 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In today's newsletter there have been various up-to-date questions, which will not be discussed for reasons which I shall report immediately. The first question under number 123/5-11-2018 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Application for an extension of the extra-institutional allowance’, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The second, with number 75/16-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The third, with number 1/1-10-2018, topical question for the second cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The second, with number 133/6-11-2018, timely question by the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct solution to the problem you yourself created and did not carry out tests to obtain a driving licence", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, as he is a witness to a court. The fourth question under number 118-1-11-2018 is the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I Athens of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "A cut in the metro routes to and from the airport", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, as he is a witness to a court. The third, with number 120/1-11-2018, a top-stage question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki under the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Georgios Katrugalos. The first question under number 124/5-11-2018, the second question of Parliamentary I of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "In the last positions in the European Union Greece in poverty and child poverty", will not be discussed due to the miserable obligations of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Theanos Fotou. So we begin with the question by No 1815/24-9-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Reduced olive oil production for three consecutive years in many areas of Crete'. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Arachovitis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the question - I did not ask for the floor, Mr President - I will devote a few seconds to the depreciation of parliamentary control. On Monday we had fifteen questions in five ministries and no Minister, no Minister, no State Secretary, no Minister. The ministries, you know, have all three. Today the questions are eight to five Ministries, and here it is only the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arachovitis. There is a complete dismantling of parliamentary control by the government, and even with justifications which justify it, such as the burden of work. I think - and I know it to say it - that Mr Spirtz should be in the question I ask him today. There are thousands of citizens waiting in line to give tests for obtaining a diploma or for upgrading it or renewing it. They're professional people who can't work. Why? Because Mr Spirtzis cannot be consulted with the people involved in the system of examinations, so that examinations and driving licences can be carried out unnecessarily. I would therefore ask Mr Spirtzi in particular to end this anxiety. Yesterday they had universal mobilization here in Athens and I don't see anyone sweating their ears. I come now, Mr President, to the question that concerns the whole of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u4	Excuse me for interrupting, Mr. Kegeroglu. I said earlier that Mr. Spirtz said he was a witness to a court of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u5	He's got Mr. Mavraani. And I personally have never raised a matter for the Undersecretary to come. Because as State Secretary, I was "loading" 80% of the Ministry's parliamentary control. So I wouldn't complain about it. I've never protested. It's the Ministry's representation anyway. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the President of Parliament to be informed and to act properly on this matter. As far as this issue is concerned, I would like to say that it is a serious problem and it concerns all of Greece but not universally, it concerns specific regions of the country, important olive-growing regions from Mytilini to Lesvos, to Crete. And, of course, the last three, four years can be differentiated between regions. In some areas, however, such as the Heraklion Prefecture, we unfortunately have a universal low production for years to come. This means a huge reduction in the income of oil producers, a failure to continue farming and, of course, a failure to survive. The overall figures for Heraklion, for example, show that from forty - five to fifty thousand tonnes which is the expected production, we have for two, three years about half. That is, twenty-four thousand tons were in 2016-2017 and close there last year, compared to the fifty or forty-five as I told you before. This result of reduced production is, of course, due to weather phenomena, water shortages, anombria, and the combination of all of them. And, of course, they have also been very influenced by the failures of the programme of the homicide, which, unfortunately, the Ministry of Rural Development has been delayed this year and this year, and to obtain approval for the sums and for the competitions to proceed. The combination of all this, therefore, brings the reduced effect on production and everything hits on the heads of the olive growers and their families. That is why we have asked the Minister to consider the possibility and the possibility of supporting these people, that is to say, to look at this problem of reduction for two consecutive years of their income. For three years in specific, of course, regions and not universally in Greece, as I have said. I believe that the problem is tackled if the Ministry takes the necessary steps and initiatives. That is what we are asking the Minister, that is, if he intends to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u6	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will start with the question of questions. You know, and I think your criticism is unfair, that in the past, the questions were indeed answered in their entirety, in fact, by the ministers, the State Secretarys, the government was not asking a question to fall down, according to what is commonly said. But we must recognise that we are in November and we are already discussing a number of urgent bills, but also bills which have a positive print for society, such as today's retrospective one. We also have the budget. So the workload is completely documented. The world isn't lost. Yes, I understand that the questions are parliamentary scrutiny, they are the work of the MPs. However, at this time we are asking for some understanding. Now regarding your question, it is true that this year was a difficult year for all of Greece to produce olive oil. This is precisely because of the weather conditions that were particularly abnormal and created problems not covered by the farmers' insurance agency, the ELGA. The problems, therefore, which are covered, are the direct damage caused to crops and which are covered by the ELGA body, they are progressing normally. The uncovered causes are a second category, where you are obviously referring to it. I should like to answer your first question that in the previous two years, for 2016 and 2017, the compensation paid to the wider region of Crete amount to EUR 9.630,000 to the insurers. For 2018, the estimated work has already been completed and proceed to the conclusion of the findings and the submission of the compensation to the beneficiaries, to the insurers. I would like to stress here that the time to pay damages from the loss-making cause, from damage to the account, has been greatly reduced. In other words, we have downloaded payment times, the time from the ELGA response to the time the producer gets his money from the Agency, the public and inter-insurance insurance agency, the ELGA, in very short time. In recent years, indeed, for Crete, these phenomena have been recorded due to reduced production, in acarpia, which lead to the end, indeed, loss of income of the producer. But these are damages not covered by the ELGA, in accordance with its rules of procedure. These damages could therefore be covered by the State aid programme, our well-known PSEA. But what does the regulation say? The regulation governing the granting of the JRC, of State aid, says two things: firstly, that there should be a loss threshold at the level of the prefecture, regional unity and, secondly, that it should be caused by an injurious cause. Unfortunately, we do not have the second in the strict sense of the term, because, as you well know, when a request for an MAGP is submitted, this goes for approval - so that it is not considered to be indirect aid to production - to control the European Commission. That is where we have to prove that it is due to a single injurious cause, which we did not have. Where we had it, you know very well that the files have been submitted since 2015, in 2016, we are moving on and even paid for the first years and the money from the state budget. But where we do not have an unfavourable weather treaty, but we have a combination, you understand that this cannot join the PES. I should like to stress here that, for this year, which has not yet finished the harvest, the ELGA is being recorded until the end of the period and records the causes and productions. I would like to stress, however, that if the conditions are met, both Greek and Community, in the context mentioned, the dossier will be submitted by the relevant ministries for approval. Now let's go to the ELGA piece. I have been mentioned again, in reply to a question about the part of the ELGA with regard to its rules of procedure. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, allow me to continue for two more minutes in my prototype. The basic regulation of the ELGA is the 1980s. You had the opportunity, Mr Colleague, in 2010 with L.3877/2010, when ELGA was converted into a general government body because of the memoranda, then, to proceed with the reform of the insurance regulation. That's not what happened. It didn't happen in 2010. Now we've started the process. You already know that it has been consulted and proposals have been tabled by both farmers and their bodies to change the regulation. Here, then, I will also present in the Minutes the Minutes 17/21-9-2018, where we discussed the next step of the regulation on the board of directors, which is what? As you know, there is a procedure until the regulation changes. The procedure was initiated and discussed in order to outsource and update a proportionate study. Why are these stages necessary? These stages are necessary for the crops and new cover that will be in place, to adapt the premiums accordingly, so that the body can also be viable. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes the minutes of the ELGA Board of Directors, so that they can be made available to everyone concerned. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. You have the floor again, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2010 the reform of the ELGA institutional framework enabled the agency to respond to a large extent to the damages, the payment of compensation, the timely assessment and all this result that you recognised it exists. This work was done within a twenty-six-month government. Are you now four years and asking for the change that you have not made in this 2010 institutional framework? Are you asking for the change? So here, because you have admitted the evidence, that there is a problem, we have to say that apart from the weather conditions, apart from watering, blooming - and let the more general compensation for other matters, here we are talking about olive oil production - there is the failure of the murder program for three consecutive years. It is a failed program, you do not implement it in time, you do not do the necessary support in the regions, and you leave them at God’s mercy in order to make the tacosy. That's not how it works. Decentralisation means support, no obstacles. And the ministry puts obstacles when he's late to give the approvals, when he's late to do the supplies. Look at the dates. You should have started spraying and you hadn't started the supply of the plant protection products. If that's possible! Do not acquit either the previous or possibly the previous ones. Where there were mistakes and omissions to be charged. Today, however, it is not about doing a controversy about what has happened and what has not happened. Our issue today is, if you have the will to set up, as I propose now, a scientific committee from people of the Ministry - it has highly rated scientists from the Ministry - and from universities and TEIs also from people in the field who have been in the socio-economic sector of oil producers, so that we can see the evolution of production over the last three four years, see the scientific causes of the decline in production for years to come - because the problem is not a year, here we have continuous years - and from now on, to see how we will deal with it either by means of an amendment to the ELGA regulation or by special regulation. Finally, when the state is responsible for the failure of a programme or for reduced production, it is not included in the ELGA regulation and I do not think you will ever include it if you make an amendment now. You won't. You will not. So you have the will, Minister, to set up this scientific committee, to see what really exists as a cause and to see what can then be done to compensate these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, you know that paralogy doesn't like me, and it doesn't suit me. However, to blame a government because in the past three years it has not been able to change what has not changed decades, when the basic regulation is in the 1980s, 1988 in particular, I think this is too much. You had all the years to change him, and this Greek people know it. And the Greek people don't forget, be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u12	It's not the rule. It's your fault you made a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u13	We, as I have tabled in the Minutes and you can read it, have already begun the process. As you can also ask farmers, we also have by living and living through the ELGA platform, because there must be a regulation that lasts another thirty years ahead. We operate with vision, and that's exactly how it's going to be. I think that you are wrong in Crete, especially Crete, because in Crete, as far as the law is concerned, the contract has become three years old. So for three years everything was on time. The contractor was there, like supplies, agronomists. Everything was on time. So we cannot say that there was a failure of the programme and, if you like, scientifically, politically and technically. But every programme, when you have to deal with a living being, depends on other conditions, and I tell you that as a geopath. In extreme weather conditions, favorable toss, you can have a success rate. You can't have absolutely 100%, you can have a percentage. And don't blame the colleagues in Crete, we don't blame all those who worked in the crime program, just for micro-political reasons. Allow me to comment. As far as the issue is concerned and are waiting for farmers to hear more and more: the Ministry as early as 7 September 2018 - and I will present it in the Minutes - has sent a letter to the Directorate-General for Rural Development of the European Commission, to the Director-General of Pleva, where he substantiates that there were abnormal weather events in our country and extreme weather phenomena, rainfall, high temperatures. We had flooding phenomena, where we had problems in pastures, because it is also the livestock farming that has been affected. We had a series of consequences. We are presenting them with meteorological data and we are calling for the European Union's assistance. This has been done by other countries such as Germany, and we ask the European Commission to recognise that there are such damages in our country that are not covered, but are due to issues of climate change. This letter of 7 September 2018, submitted to the European Commission by Mr Kasimis, the Secretary-General for Agricultural Policy and Management of Community Resources, I submit it in the Minutes for information, yours, the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u14	Will you set up a scientific committee? Say it. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u15	Yes, of course, we will set up a committee, and not only from the Ministry's servants, worthwhile scientists, but also in cooperation with the Agricultural University. ELGA, the Ministry and the Agricultural University are already working together. This conclusion, the documentation, is the product of this cooperation, and the committee proceeds with its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u16	The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 November 2018 to hold a single meeting on the principle of articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u18	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Mikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u20	Here you go, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u21	We don't agree on everything. We need to discuss the amendments separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u22	If your opinion had been expressed in the Conference of Presidents, I would have said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, now they've been tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u24	Are you talking about the amendment or the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u25	For the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u26	I am sorry for the amendment, there will be a debate, and time will be given. I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u27	We agree on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, we do not know how to proceed with the amendments, whether to have a separate debate or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u29	As usual, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u30	The Members will normally be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u31	The amendments will be distributed, the Ministers will support them and, of course, the parties will speak with their representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u32	Through their representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u33	In the first phase. If there is any reason, the Bureau will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u34	Members are also asking to speak because the amendments are important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u35	If there's a reason, they'll be registered, and they'll take the floor. That's how it happens every time. As I said before, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Meikopoulou, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the speaker's record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, may I ask you a question on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u37	Now I gave the floor, Mrs Marcus, then you'll have the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of people within the European Union has been a fact for many years now, so it was also natural that the issue of protecting workers' rights in insurance should be raised, as many times in their working lives are faced with legislation and different insurance systems applied in the various countries. In particular, in recent years of the economic crisis with the migratory wave, it has eroded within the borders of the European Union - which, in fact, also concerns many of our fellow citizens - there has been a clear need to improve the procedures for obtaining and maintaining supplementary pension rights. In order to clarify this from the outset, when we say supplementary pension, we mean the benefit to which a worker is entitled, who has entered into a occupational scheme granting an additional retirement pension on the basis of rules already adopted, in accordance with existing legislation and practice and in so far as the worker has fulfilled the conditions laid down for her acquisition, so that she can benefit from the pension scheme. In order to improve the procedures for obtaining and maintaining supplementary pension rights, the European Union has adopted directives with a positive mark for the world of work, with the latest Directive 2014/50, whose provisions we are now called upon to incorporate with this draft law. In addition to those relating to the incorporation of this directive, however, I would like to dwell on two elements which are not mentioned in it, but which are included in this bill and which are our own initiatives. In particular, the application of the minimum conditions for the acquisition of supplementary pension rights and of workers changing professional sectors within the Greek territory have also been introduced. Secondly, if the worker does not wish to retain or transfer his fundamental rights to supplementary retirement, a ceiling of EUR 2 000 has been set. At the same time, it is also compulsory to provide information and advice on a possible investment in the amount of pension benefits. In summary, I refer to the individual articles of the bill. As referred to in the first Article, the purpose of the Directive is to lay down the minimum limits for the protection of pension rights for supplementary pensioners by improving, acquiring and maintaining supplementary pension rights for those entitled to it, and to reduce the obstacles to certain supplementary pension rights such as the conditions for obtaining pension rights and the conditions for maintaining inactive pension rights. In the second article, reference shall be made to the fields of application of the provisions which will apply retroactively from 21 May 2018 to supplementary pension schemes providing supplementary benefits to workers - members of such schemes who, due to the termination of their employment relationship, are moved to other Member States - Member States and which also includes workers - who change employment within Greece. I would point out here that we are talking about employment-related pension schemes. So we are talking - and we are talking about it - about occupational voluntary insurance funds, which in our country are eleven. Additional benefits, therefore, are provided for in individual or collective agreements or other similar agreements, in internal company regulations, under occupational insurance schemes. We note that the first pillar of the compulsory main and subsidiary insurance scheme covered by Regulation 883/2004 excludes supplementary pension schemes which have been closed, thus not accepting new members, occupational pension funds which are subject to the supervision of supervisory or judicial authorities for the purpose of safeguarding or restoring their financial situation, including the liquidation procedure. I must stress, of course, that this exemption is lifted after the completion of the above procedures, as well as that of the guarantee schemes in the event of insolvency, the flat-rate remuneration of the employer to the worker, carried out at the end of the employment relationship, in which the worker is regarded as an employed person under a contract of employment and his remuneration is determined on the basis of the performance of the product produced. Article 3 sets out the definitions of the concepts set out in the provisions to be adopted. In Article 4, we have the introduction of two basic principles. We have the principle of equal treatment and the principle of cross-border payment. This means that the established pension rights of a worker who goes to another Member State are protected in the same way as those who remain in the same Member State and also that the beneficiaries can receive their benefits in any Member State - whatever they may be. Article 5 establishes the very reasonable and equitable maintenance of the inactivated pension rights of workers, i.e. the established pension rights retained in the system in which they were acquired and where the value of these rights is calculated at the point in time of termination of the employment relationship to which they relate, in accordance with the legislation in force. In particular, it is determined that the calculation and management of the employee's rights will be the same as that of the active persons either through the evolution of pension benefits or by other fair means, such as by ensuring the nominal value of inactivated pension rights when they are acquired as a nominal amount, with inactivated pension rights invested at either a fixed rate or a variable rate by adjusting the value of inactivated pension rights to the rate of inflation or the change in the level of wages. In Article 5, the worker’s right to choose or maintain his entitlement to the supplementary pension scheme or the scheme to pay him a lump sum equivalent to the value of his basic pension rights shall be laid down to the extent that that value does not exceed a certain amount. Today this amount is set at EUR 2 000 and is adjusted annually with the average annual consumer price index of the Hellenic Statistical Authority, starting from 2020. I come to Article 6. This is where reference is made to the obligation on supplementary pension schemes to inform, at the written request of the beneficiary, both their active members and former active members once a year of the consequences of the termination of their employment relationship and whether they will be affected by their supplementary pension rights to move to another Member State. Finally, in Article 7 of the bill, reference is made to the possibility that the worker, who is changing his professional object, may transfer his rights to another occupational insurance fund to the new job, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministerial Decision on the maintenance and transfer of his pension rights. These are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, insurance regulations which are in line with common sense. If we want to sum up this sanction to two main advantages, these are: firstly, equal treatment and cross-border payments. In order to say this very simply, the fundamental rights of someone who leaves a pension scheme and goes to another Member State are protected in the same way as those who remain. They may also receive their benefits in any Member State, whether or not they are. The second main advantage of this penalty will be the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. As far as the acquisition is concerned, rights shall be acquired irrevocably at the time of the acquisition. If, in other words, a scheme wants to require a period of residence for the acquisition of the right, it cannot introduce more than three years and if it wants to introduce a minimum age, it cannot exceed the twenty-first year of age. Contributions are never lost. If the insured person leaves before the right to receive benefits is established, such contributions shall be reimbursed. With regard to maintenance, the insured person shall have the right to retain his acquired rights unless he agrees to be granted a capital payment. If they are maintained, they must be guaranteed the same way as those who continue to be covered by the same regime. Conservation naturally varies according to the nature of the scheme and its practice. So, as I said at the outset, these are regulations that are in line with common sense. I call on the House to vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs Marku, before I gave you the floor as rapporteur for the New Democracy, you had asked for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u40	All right, Mr President, this has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u41	Mrs Marcos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Faithful to tradition and respect for the fact that the government has always shown itself in parliamentary procedures at night to table two amendments on major and exceptional issues. The first concerns shellfish monitors. Yeah, well, the people who might be watching us. The shellfish had to come at night! But you will allow me, in particular, to address the second amendment, which of course concerns one of the issues of the day, the return of the retrospectives to the uniforms, the doctors, the university and other branches of special wages, from the cuts made in 2012 and which have been made by the EU. He judged himself as unconstitutional. And yet it is not compliance with judicial decisions, the Prime Minister said yesterday, it is a political choice. We have here another proof of the disgust, the unprecedented cynicism with which you understand and manage power! If it is possible to pretend that you are grasping them, that they must owe you grace, that they are in some way obliged and of course will be asked to pay you back sometime for the good you do to them. Money is returned that the supreme court considered should be returned. That's what's happened. We are talking about money that New Democracy has already returned by 50% in 2014 and Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been committed since January 2018 that the next government, the New Democracy, will also pay back the rest. It is money that eventually comes out of overtaxation, internal payment stop, withholding tax refunds, increased insurance contributions. It is money from the pocket of Greek citizens and you have the courage to present it as a Christmas "bonama"! You don't have a single humiliation no more! Of course the moment is not an accident. It is clear why all this is being done now, why they were announced in yesterday's communiqué feast in the event of the Air Force. Is it because you suddenly caught the pain for the Security Body and the Armed Forces? No, of course not. Symbolism is clear. You will do everything you can to locate your chosen partner, the single and the abundance of the first time left. Even the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been expelled through complaints of money laundering from dark centres, which eventually happened or did not happen? Some people heard or didn't hear them? We don't understand. But that's not enough. After the intense disapprovals that SYRIZA officials are accepting throughout Greece, you had to do something more drastic. Your panic in front of the upcoming election crash is now evident. The leaf tree suddenly gave birth to 1,4 billion euros when you're not supposed to - you're supposed to cover the cost of taking all the children to the children's stations. The "leaf tree" gave birth to ten thousand jobs in the public sector, as the Government Representative said yesterday, but after 2020. 'So you must keep SYRIZA in the government'. This is the context of the shameless transaction with voters. At the same time that you mock pensioners to make applications electronically to EVKA, for their own retrospectives you will probably never give, at the same time as you dismantle the Katseli law for the indebted households, the government media inform us that there is a barrage of positive measures by the end of the year. How much mockery now? Let's say things with their name. You'll do anything, you'll sell out every ideology, you'll blow up the country in the air, if necessary, just to stay a little more fucked up in the chairs. Citizens no longer buy the hay you sell. They know who moved on to the return of the retrospectives, respecting court decisions and who portray the benefactors of the people, feeding rabbits with rocks just before the exit. They know who, really, they can take the country forward and who leads us every day and below, and back again. The defeat comes and the pragmy you set up will finally be finished. As I said, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has committed himself to returning this money as early as January 2018. So, obviously, the New Democracy will vote in favour of the amendment. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please! I would like to say two words about the main body of the draft we are discussing today and it is the incorporation into national law of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council aimed at improving, the conditions for obtaining and maintaining workers' rights in the so-called supplementary pension schemes, namely those which give pension benefits beyond those of public social security schemes. The Directive concerns workers who either change employment within the same country or have moved for professional reasons in another Member State of the European Union. So at least in this period it concerns many more Greeks, who have found work in European Union countries and can acquire and retain supplementary pension rights. Because it is doubtful that we will be able to demand compensation from foreign countries for the use of the Greek talent and the mind, as proposed by a colleague of the Co-Plathing a few days ago, let us hope that the directive will, at least, be an additional reason to return to their homeland, obviously with another situation and with another better perspective than the one that the current government is organizing and promoting. This directive recognises two realities: one is increasing the mobility of workers both between different sectors of employment and between different Member States which the European Union, consistent with the principle of the free movement of workers, wants to facilitate. The other reality that is recognised is the growing importance of supplementary pension in many Member States of the European Union. So we also see a tendency here to develop the second and third pillars of pension systems, as must be done in our country. The New Democracy has committed itself to this, and obviously does not want to eliminate the rights of subsidiary insurance or reduce it, as you were at stake in the committee. So read the New Democracy programme first and the questions will be answered for sure. I would like to focus a little on the role of the social partners, supplementary pension schemes and their potential to contribute to the implementation of the directive, as pointed out in the preamble. Articles 4 and 5 also allow Member States to allow social partners, such as workers' and employers' organisations, to introduce different provisions by collective agreement if they have at least an equivalent effect on the protection of labour mobility. The explanatory memorandum to this draft states that supplementary pension benefits may also be provided in collective labour agreements or in internal company regulations. Within the text of the law, however, no such reference is made. Our rapporteur in the committee, Mr Yoyakas, asked you to explain why you removed from the bill any reference to the social partners. You did not reply to us, but you were proud that the trade unions could demand in the negotiations with employers to make supplementary insurance conditions. If that is what you want, Minister, why did you not maintain what was written in the directive on the role of the social partners? Can this be what you say, if it is not explicitly foreseen by the law? This is a dispute which runs counter to the spirit and the letter of the directive and which we would like even now to give clear explanations. I will not go into the main provisions of the bill. Our rapporteur spoke in detail in committee. However, the question that has also been asked for clarification has still not been given is the amount of the one-off amount that employees could receive, equal to the value of the acquired pension rights which cannot exceed EUR 2000. You have also referred to this, Minister, as your addition, since the directive allows you to do so. The question is how and why the EUR 2000 plan came about. Has it been based on some elements, and if so, what are these and what is the wall in force in other European countries that have incorporated the directive? As we have said in committee, the New Democracy is voting for the bill not only because our country responds - with sufficient delay - to a European obligation, but also because it works for the benefit of the workers and ultimately all the young people who are looking for their luck abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, thirty one student and two teachers from the 11th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Konstantopoulos. You have the floor, Mr Constantopoulos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill incorporates Directive 2014/50/EU into national law on promoting the mobility of workers between Member States and improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. I would say that this is, indeed, very important provisions, as they lay down regulations for the protection of the pension rights of migrants outside the Union, even if they change employment and employment. These regulations, ladies and gentlemen, actually abolish a counter-incentive - I would say - for many years, while they would like to go to one European Union country and work in another sector, they have had a fear of losing part of their rights with supplementary insurance. That was an inhibition factor. So we all understand how important this is at the present juncture in the country over the last ten years, when almost five hundred thousand people, I would say young people, have emigrated abroad to find work. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said in the committee, and I would say, in the ideological position of each speaker. I am going to dwell on two points, which I consider to be of particular importance and which should be clarified in plenary. Firstly, Minister Petropoulos said that both the TIPITs, the Private Sector Welfare Fund, as well as the EIB, the Single Assistance and Security Fund and the LEPETE were once state funds that gave huge pensions. He told us that workers were flattered, but they were lost, because they were on their own, while under the Katorugalou law we will all be together and we will not lose, but they will be strengthened. Let us make this clear, however, because this is how a confusion arises, and indeed - I would say very much, considering that the State Secretary had been in the past and advisor to the trade union of national officials and he knows better. Because in the major issue that has arisen with LEPETE, on which we have asked Mr Tsakalotos and Mrs Ahtsoglou a question, there are six and a half thousand pensioners who are charged with legal expenses to claim their claims. LEPETE is not a professional fund nor has anything to do with subsidiary insurance. That is why in 2015, while there was a mandate from creditors to merge all the ancillary funds under the EIF, there was a question with LEITE because it could not join. And one will wonder why he couldn't join. Because it is a support account for the staff of the National Bank of Greece, which was established in 1949 by a decision of the General Council of the National Bank, following agreement with the trade union representation of the bank employees and was for sixty-eight years viable. In other words, it was a bank initiative to ensure working peace and attract executives. National pensioners don't take subsidiary. There was this aid secured by the bank. And in order to be perfectly precise, only those appointed to the bank after January 2005 were excluded from this aid from the LEITE and taking subsidiary today. LEPETE had a surplus by 2008. In other words, every year the bank's contributions, but also the employees themselves, were more than the money that LEPETE gave. So the question now is what happened to these surpluses. So I close with the subject and a reminder. We have asked the government to take initiatives to tackle the problem at its base. Secondly, you have commented, Minister, on the question of immigrants having a work card in Greece but not in Europe, and you told us that, for example, Great Britain did not lose and gives full rights. Here we would like clear explanations: A green card immigrant in Greece will be able to leave here and work with the same rights in another European Union country? It's a question not only of mine but of many. I ask you why a confusion has arisen. As I would say, it has also been created with the pension retrospectives, following the recent decision of the Monomele of Thessaloniki. But here too, there is a bilingualism of the government. The Minister comes out at a radio station and says he has been set up by the media with regard to retrospective information and that he considers that the decision of the Monomele of Thessaloniki will be appealed. The Undersecretary comes out and says the S.H.E.L.D. is coming out. It considered that only pensioners who have appealed to justice would receive the retrospectives they are entitled to in respect of their pensions. However, on the website of EKA they opened an electronic application for those who want to submit for the retrospective payment, on the pretext that the limitation is interrupted for a six-month period. And here comes someone and wonders, a retired person has five years in which to appeal to court and has not done so to this day. Refugee or not? You said that they would not allow them to bring an action, but they would pay it all if the matter was finalised in the Council of State. Here I think, Minister, that there is a misinformation company and there is a confusion. So what should retired people think and how to move? At the same time, Mr Ministers, today you are bringing an amendment to the uniforms and payroll beneficiaries. We agree with the payment of the retrospectives to the beneficiaries, but we do not agree with each other in any case and not selectively. Why? You're invoking a S.H.E.'s decision, but you're actually invoking something that won't be implemented. You limit, I would arbitrarily say, the retrospectives in 2016, invoking the Katorugalou law. We have repeatedly stressed, Minister, the bad texts of the Katorugalou law, because here it seems that you do not have a comprehensive plan on how to deal with the 'tsunami' of the judicial decisions that are coming. Of course, we, the Democratic Reconciliation does not mean that because we consent to this amendment, for people to take their money, we also consent to the Katrugalou Act. We all know well and have repeatedly stated that the Katrugalou law should be abolished at its base. Finally, Minister, for the first time I see, I would say, invoke the General Accounting Office and refer to the General Accounting Office as aggregates, without substantiating what each will get. What will the judges get, what will the doctors get, what will the soldiers get. That's why I talked about total confusion. Another matter. Pension cuts. The Prime Minister told us at the IGC and announced that the pensions will not be cut, even though this is a Memorandum of Understanding by Parliament. The institutions come out and say: "Your idea, your decision and yours. We are interested in you to catch the targets." So the institutions are only interested in the objectives. We are now waiting for the next special meeting of the Eurogroup, which will take place on 19 November, and we are very likely to wait until its last meeting on 3 December, to see what is going to happen. I would remind you, Minister, once again that we have tabled a proposal for a law to cancel the reduction in pensions, so for the abolition of the Katrugalo Law and for the re-establishment of the insurance system on the basis of updated proportionate studies. What's left? Minister, you're still going to act on our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I return to the directive under discussion and its importance, a directive on the protection of the acquisition and maintenance of pension rights. I shall mention two very important points. Firstly, pension rights are acquired irrevocably, once three years of employment are completed, and workers' contributions are never lost, and as a minimum age limit for a worker to be eligible for the pension scheme, they are twenty-five years. Secondly, if a worker leaves and does not have a pension right at the end of his employment, the contributions he paid shall be refunded to him if the employer has incurred the investment risk, and if he has brought the investment risk to him, either the contributions paid or the cumulative value of the investments resulting from those contributions are repaid to him. That's fair, I'd say. I'm coming to the articles. The bill is composed of nine articles. Article 1 lays down the purpose of incorporating the Directive and Article 2 the scope of its application. In detail, I would say, the provisions of the bill apply the schemes which, in accordance with the legislation, provide supplementary retirement for workers - members of them, such as group insurance contracts and workers who, due to the termination of their employment relationship, move to other Member States, as well as workers who change employment within the Greek territory. Here are the areas excluded from the scope of the draft, such as social security schemes under Regulation 883/2004 and supplementary pension schemes already closed and cannot be registered by new members. It should also be noted, Minister, that the provisions of the Directive do not apply to invalidity benefits. This is very important and we need to see it. Article 3 includes the definitions of the concepts to which the draft law refers. Article 4 sets out the conditions under which workers acquire entitlement to supplementary retirement. Article 5 refers to inactivated pension rights. It is stated that workers who leave, retain their fundamental rights for supplementary pensions and pension benefits. The method of determining the value of such rights is laid down at the same time. It is very important that Article 6, which facilitates workers' information on the consequences of their mobility on their rights for supplementary retirement. In particular, it is laid down that employees must have full registration and clear information on the terms and value of their entitlements in supplementary retirement and on the possibility of paying them a single equivalent amount. This is how workers have the right to information about how much they can affect their pension rights a possible move to another Member State. Article 7 ensures that cases of workers who change their professional activity - and this is very important - and an occupational insurance fund are governed by the existing legislation and by the statutes of each fund. If the migrant worker requests that his rights be not transferred to the new fund, he shall remain and receive the benefit to which he is entitled, once he has completed the relevant conditions. That's very important. Finally, Article 8 lays down an authorised provision for the adoption of a common Ministerial Decision on the application of those provisions and Article 9 provides for the entry into force of the Act retroactively from 21-5-2018. For this delay, Minister, we have not heard a word. To conclude, I should like to point out that this directive comes to remind everyone that we can now talk about the free movement of workers within the Union. We must be aware that we must now talk about the Europe of the peoples rather than the numbers. We also manage to gain this fundamental protection of acquired rights or the acquisition of rights resulting from the employment relationship. The free movement of workers within the Union was one of the four cornerstones, i.e. the internal market, part of the original Treaty of Rome in 1957, along with the free movement of goods and services and capital in two words: the European vision, which the democratic party has served with responsibility and perseverance. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that five hundred thousand Greek and Greek women left for abroad, left for Europe or other countries in the world. We should give particular consideration to this. We're all talking about Brain Drain. Two hundred and fifty thousand educated people fled, who were graduated, doctoral, and qualified. The aim of all of us, Mr Minister, and colleagues, will be one. Let this generation come back. Turn those youths back. Because, really, these youths are going to change the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Citizens' Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Deputy Ministers of National Defence, Economy and Development, Social Security and Social Security, Environmental Protection, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration and Immigration Policy, Migration and Immigration Policy, Response of 23 July 2018, National Defence Policy and Information Policy, Employment, Social Security and Social Security Policy (Acts 2, 2 July 2018) Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Areastoration of Acts of Immigration and Responders of Immunities (Acts 1 July 2018) as well as well as well as the National Defence and Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Acts of Terrupportation Acts (Actified Areas of Minoration and Reliefforestry and Reliefforceive Territation Acts of Inducation) of Inducation of Inducation of the Hellenic Reliefforceive Territagement of Intemigration and Reliefforcement of Minorship of the Hellenic Reliefforcement of Intements of Intemigration and Development (Actual Religation of Ins) in the Acts (Actual Reliefforestry and Reliefforestry and Religration of Ins (Actual Religration and Reliefforcement of Minortivities) in the Hellenic Religion of Inducation, Social Religration and Religration and Development (Actifications) in the Hellenic Religration and Reliefforestry and Religment of the Hellenic Refugement of the Hellenic Refuges (Actation of the Hellenic Religment of Independence) of Independence of Independence in the Refugement of the It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. We proceed with the next special speaker, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides of the Golden Dawn Association. Please, Mr Shahinides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Normally today's meeting should begin with the observance of a thin silence in the memory of the nationalist Konstantinos Katsifa, who is dying today. Today is a day of mourning, collecting and honoring the memory of the nationalist Constantine Katsifa. He is buried in his special homeland in the Bulgarians of Northern Epirus and not South Albania as some of your executives have said. You have a problem when we nationalists are talking about the Northern Continent, but you have absolutely no problem calling Skopje "North Macedonia". There has been an attempt, unfortunately, to bend the memory of the nationalist from the very beginning. Your anti-Greek hatred continued with the submission of a question by fourteen SYRIZA MPs - with protocol number 3096 and date 6-11-2018 - to the Ministry of Digital Policy, entitled "false and misleading reports on the incident", and not murder, "Constantine Katsifa in the village of Vouliarates, Albania", and not of Northern Epirus. This morning, however, this provocative and irresistible hatred continues on the Albanian side. Those who wanted to go to the North continent to attend the funeral of the nationalist, unfortunately the information we have from the audits - and even has played in all morning reports and news - are making strict checks, stopping cars and buses and whoever - listens well - has a Greek flag, is forbidden to attend the funeral of the nationalist. We demand, as Golden Dawn, that the Greek Government react immediately in every anticipated way to our "good neighbours", as you call them. Constantine Katsifas: Immortal! Your memory and the memory of the rest of the ethnic witnesses will lead our national struggles. To move to today's draft law. In your anti-national pursuits it is also the abolition - depreciation of national borders. It is the will of the Brussels establishment and of the Soros-type institutions that support it as well as yours and it is primarily facilitated by the massive and uncontrolled movement of populations, whether these populations are about African and Asian illegal immigrants, who, by hundreds of thousands, are trying to invade Europe, whether they are European citizens, who are forced to emigrate to another state for economic reasons. On the one hand, the leaders of the European Union are trying to undermine national societies by catching their population and, on the other, hypocritically, trying to mitigate the disastrous economic policies for the national states and their peoples by drawing up legislation which, in principle, are fragmentary, rough, ineffective and inappropriate as this directive. Therefore, Directive 2014/50 in this case, which is incorporated into domestic legislation by means of the draft law being adopted, is supposed to regulate the framework on which the mobility of workers between Member States of the European Union and the minimum conditions required to improve the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. The nine articles contained in the draft law, set out the scope of the Directive, set out the relevant definitions, specify the conditions and conditions necessary for the acquisition of supplementary pension rights, and establish the possibility for migrant workers to choose either the maintenance of a supplementary pension right or the possibility of payment to them of an equivalent one-off amount at the end of their employment relationship. It is true that the issue of the current draft law and, in particular, the possibility of obtaining additional pension rights for Greek workers in other European countries is now a particularly important issue for Greek society, and this is, unfortunately, due to the migration of hundreds of thousands of our compatriots to third countries, which has taken place over the last ten years in which you have been implementing Memorandum policies in our country. In opening a parenthesis, it should be pointed out that it is in a sense tragic ironic that it should be interested in the pension rights of Greeks abroad, the same government, which has wiped out financially and several times and biologically, our fellow citizens in Greece. The statement by Mr Tsipras at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and the similarity of the Minister, Mr Tsakalotou, who in essence put their hopes and expectations for the rescue of the domestic pension and insurance system in Harod and for the expectation of pensioners to be migrated to the Lord an hour earlier, who receive high pensions. Hundreds of thousands, therefore, have forced us to emigrate, due to the policies you and your predecessors have conducted, in order to avoid total economic impoverishment and to be able to feed their families. It is therefore logical for us, as a state, to be concerned about any regime on which pension rights are to be acquired in other European countries. However, first priority for the government in question should be to stop the bleeding of our country's population and the departure of our young people abroad and, secondly, to be able, as a state, to create the conditions for the return of our respective compatriots to Greece and reintegration them into the potential of domestic production and economy. Unfortunately, however, the government is doing exactly the opposite. Not only does it create conditions for the repatriation of our children, but instead it is evicted even more of our compatriots to leave our homeland. Furthermore, it would not be possible to do so, since the faithful implementation of the memoranda, in which you have deposited all your policies, actually makes it forbidden to develop any professional activity in Greece. You have no right to deprive us of our dreams, to see our children and grandchildren working professionally in Greece and to make families. It is a gift, therefore, and certainly not a national benefit, to incorporate in our national legislation suggestions, rules, directives and legislation the same bureaucratic mechanisms and opportunities, which imposed the ethnic monumentary policies in our country and were the moral and natural perpetrators of economic extermination and impoverishment of Greek citizens and the creation of all the conditions that forced us to emigrate, as I said before, to other states and not just within the European Union. The Golden Dawn is clearly voting against the Community directive in question, but we have shown over time that our attitude is always accompanied by concrete proposals, which are both effective and practicable. In this respect, we have referred to them at committee meetings, but we repeat them, so that they may also be heard in plenary. Our political stance on this issue is directly against the bureaucratic and over-concentrating logic which you have towards Greek citizens. This is a national attitude, based on the dogma of the existence of national sovereign states, free of any kind of commitment and obligation to this structure, which you call the European Union. As Golden Dawn, we consider that instead of trying by the draft law on transposition into the domestic legislation of that European directive, nationally beneficial but also more effective, it would in practice be the conclusion of bilateral - transnational agreements on a case-by-case basis and taking into account our particular circumstances and relationships with each State, whether this is a member of the European Union or not. In this way and through bilateral transnational agreements, all rights and not only pensions, but also employment and insurance, the Greek citizens, who have chosen to live and work in third countries, would be more effective. So we would be able and able as a state to serve and at the same time to safeguard our national interests more easily, since we would act under the principle of reciprocity and, at the same time, we would be able to avoid making commitments, which would possibly have adverse consequences for our country and our national economy either now or in the future. For example, there are states in which several thousand Greeks work and are outside the European Union, such as the Arab states of the Middle East. There are also countries either European or not in which hundreds of thousands of Greeks live and work, such as Germany, the United States, Australia, which are outside the European continent. Most of the nationals of these countries, however, live and work in our country. However, there are also the reverse cases of thousands of foreign nationals from countries in which they do not live and work Greek immigrants, such as Bulgaria, which is also a member of the European Union or Albania, which is likely to be in the near future, who are permanently resident and working within the Greek territory, as economic immigrants. It is therefore clear that neither our national interests nor the Greek economic migrants would serve to have a single legislative framework in place for cases that are completely disparate and contradictory to each other, such as those I have said. In practice, there would be problems, which could particularly harm our national economy, especially if hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian or Albanian nationals who work within the Greek territory, who are working in the immediate future to obtain any claims and claims either of a main or supplementary pension or insurance nature against domestic insurers, even though they have left Greece. On the contrary, however, it would work for the benefit of the Greek citizens, who live and work in third countries as migrants, but also in favour of our national economy, to judge, negotiate, agree and legislate at bilateral, transnational level on a case-by-case basis, and after assessing the particular circumstances, factors and peculiarities of the respective state, free as a state from the limitations of the European Union's bureaucracy and only in the interests of our state and our people. That means national policy! That means national government of our country! That means a sovereign state! The rapid development of the European Union is now a national awakening of the states - nations of Europe, and their disarmament and dismissal from the corrupt and ruthless structure of the European Union is now before the gates, whether they like Brussels' left-wing and liberal submissives or not. The vision of a Europe of nationalist and the straightforward turn of European societies, nations and states towards the worldview of nationalism, may at this time just as a nightmare for all of you nationalists, but in the very near future it will be the very tough reality that you will all be forced to live in. Golden Dawn is voting against the entire draft law being passed. I think it is appropriate to refer to just one of the amendments - the rest will be mentioned by our Parliamentary representative - in the amendment tabled by three SYRIZA Members from the Prefecture of Imathia, with a general number of 1797 and a special number of 142. What is the title of this amendment? The title is: ‘Consolidation of issues concerning the acceptance of debts of TAs’. I would just like, when one of the three signatories to the Imathia Law will speak, to explain to us whether this amendment is photographic. Why is it signed by three MPs of the Imathia Prefecture? Which municipality is it from their county? What does this amendment say? Bearing in mind that one of the main reasons - and these are not the words of the Golden Dawn - that our homeland entered the memoranda was the mismanagement, in terms of municipalities. And you are coming today, with this obscure amendment - which I do not believe will be accepted by the Ministry - to wash off all those who have managed money through the operations of the municipalities. Listen to what he says on page 3: "Compatible with the persons in liquidation are exempted from any civil, criminal or other liability to pay those debts". I'm sure you're kidding. One, that is to say, who was on the board of directors and made a mismanagement - and you want these debts to be passed on to the municipalities, and that as a place it should apply - you release him from criminal responsibility. For what? In other words, someone who has been abused the citizens' money, do you come today with the signature of three Members of this House from this law, to relieve him? I would like your attention, Minister. And I do not believe in any way that you will want to make such infamous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. And move on to the next special speaker. Mr Katsotis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. And in this bill we see the common strategy of the other parties in the demands of capital. It united you in the memorials and in the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots measures, which took over the workers, the pensioners and the people as a whole. This strategy overthrows you and continues to overthrow whatever social character of insurance has left, widened the way to private insurance with professional funds or whatever is called the various supplementary insurance schemes. In fact, the Minister, in committee, advertised this course, stressing that in the European Union the system of occupational funds is highly developed and has important rights enjoyed by the workers. It also referred to Law 3029, which created the occupational funds and that the trade unions are supposed to be able to negotiate with the employers supplementary insurance. It called in particular for seafarers to proceed with the establishment of a professional fund. In other words, it presents it as a tool for workers and their organizations. This line is also the European Union directive. So this directive is being incorporated and the government claims that it comes to resolve procedural issues of supplementary social security schemes in pensions and health for the transfer of rights from a country to a European Union country in the context of the free movement of the labour force. All supplementary social security schemes are organised and developed by business groups and insurance companies. They are part of the professional funds. In this sense, subsidiary systems are also integrated, regardless of whether they are part of the State social security systems, when they are governed by the capitalisation system. In the European Union, the individual pan-European social security product is developing uniformly, it is a supplementary insurance instrument, it is sold to workers mainly by various stock exchange companies, banks, private insurance companies. The Commission, also considering this pan-European product of social security as a commodity, provides for the sale of goods by state-owned insurance funds. The option of supplementary social security is individual. Since 1990, and especially in recent years in the conditions of the capitalist economic crisis, the policy of managing it by the political forces of capital has targeted the state insurance system, the public insurance system. The business groups, the European Union and the governments of PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA - ANEL, their various reserves and forces in the labour movement, with a common line, defended these reforms, as they called the big overthrows, the smashing of workers' insurance rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Katsotis, please, because he's going to leave school, have a two-minute break, so I can announce the school and go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u50	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "World Republic Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 14th Municipal School of Ilio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u52	The arguments used were the weakness of the system, the country's demographic problem, the high wage costs and other arguments to gain the workers' tolerance, if not the support. This has promoted a step forward - step by step, the directions of the European Union and the OECD, which do not differ from the Pinochet model, which the New Democracy prefers as a continuation of overthrows. The sole objective of all these so-called restructurings is the fixed claim of the capital for state and employers' exemption from the obligation to pay contributions to insurance in order to reduce further the price of the labour force. The multiple implementing laws of the memoranda plundered main and supplementary pensions and all other benefits, still provided by the insurance funds, such as medical care, certain welfare services, which should, of course, be exclusively free and public, without any business action in these areas. At this time, workers and pensioners, who were insured in funds, who were in a sense professionally - in a sense, I stress - saw their collapse, such as the National Fund, the Agricultural Health Fund and, of course, the medicine, which was transformed from an subsidiary to a professional. At this time it was completely revealed that, when it needs, capital overturns everything that deprives it of capital and profit. Nothing can be guaranteed, as it has been proved, by the power of capital for workers. This policy, which is supported by all of you, which is part of your single strategy, which is to satisfy the needs of capital to increase the rate of profit and competitiveness, breaks the majority of the people. We recall that the counter-insurance attack started in 1992 under the Sioufa laws, continued on Petroleum - Reppa, attempted to give the final blow with the Yannitsi Act in 2002, which had already started the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy on competitiveness. It was blocked by the class labour movement, of course, the Olympic Games, which were ahead, and the fear of constant mobilisation, along with the integration into EMU. Of course, we followed up by the Koutrumani - Loverdus law, the great twists of Brutsi, of course, the tombstone of the Katrugalos law. All these changes have been in the same direction, in promoting the three pillars, with the support of the third pillar, which is particularly concerned with the directive, which is now being incorporated. Since the 1990s there have been considerable difficulties in the reproduction of capital and they have started if they impose a strategy of capitalist restructuring and insurance always in the name of ensuring the viability of the system, but in reality in order to relieve capitalists and the state of the contributions, to further enhance their profitability. Remind the long-term theft of the reserves allocated to business groups, forcing the funds to borrow at a bank interest rate, so that they can sink them twice. Also, the haircuts for the bad debt that pushed them even deeper into weakness. At the same time, unemployment, as well as the smashing of wages, which is depriving huge resources from the insurance funds. The European Union, capitalists, states and governments are responsible for everything. The dreadful reality that you have all formulated together is accompanied by various studies by staff, which raise two issues very strongly: one is the sustainability of insurance systems in the long term. In fact, you are doing various studies to prove it and make use of the demographic problem, namely the reduction of births, combined with an increase in life expectancy, which means a reduction in the workforce and an increase in retired people. In other words, the proportion of workers - pensioners who, as you say, increase the pension costs and the costs of health care and welfare services for the third age, but who will sink the income of the insurance funds. So, on the one hand, you have broken all the insurance rights with the insurance laws, on the other, you have broken the income, reserves and, in general, the financial resources of the funds. All civil service staff at the European Union and also in the Member States claim, because there are these problems - we point out that they are exclusively the creation of these problems themselves - and because, at the same time, science has increased the limit of life, but, at the same time, miserable living conditions with the increasing intensity of exploitation in the working class and poor populace, such as hunger wages, multiple forms of flexible labour relations, undeclared work, huge unemployment, because of increased productivity or economic crisis, all make it difficult to create a family and childbirth. So, what do you think? You say you have to constantly apply reinsurance measures. And that's what you've been doing in recent years, increasing retirement ages - work to deep old age, to death! - to minimise pension amounts and increase income from contributions from workers to the funds for more than one year. The reduction in pensions is at such a level that they estimate these staff and BSE, with multiple studies, but also the Association of Insurance Companies and other State staff, that they will not be able to meet the needs of the workers. And what do they propose? They urge workers to be concerned themselves, individually for their lives after working life, namely for old age, and to address supplementary insurance schemes, private, capitalising, to have an important supplement, as they say, to the pension - 'priority' that they will receive from the state insurance system. In fact, they say that in order to increase jobs, it is necessary to reduce the social security contributions of the employer or the State and to reduce capital tax. But this is also fraud, because there will be an increase in jobs in this system, if there is capitalist growth, if the vast majority of the few new jobs are flexible, with hunger wages, so with zero income for the insurance funds. However, this requirement of capitalists helps to increase the profit rate. And they, that's exactly what they want. Last, in order to establish the need for supplementary insurance, you are talking about saving workers. However, because wages are hunger and you do not want to increase them, because they are reducing their profits and competitiveness, you are proposing that the reduction in workers' contributions should come from legislation so that workers can see that they get something more as a net wage. This prospect, of course, also serves the 100% grant programmes for employees' contributions, plus 50% of the so-called 'employer' contribution', which the OAED currently carries out. This is the demand of employers, in order to further reduce so-called 'labour costs'. What do you think? You say, "These little more money you get with these cuts you have, save them and invest them in the supplementary insurance schemes, i.e. in business groups, to ensure your old age," as if they were caring for the workers' old age! With all the above, the public insurance system, compulsory, redistributive, pension benefits, health care and certain welfare services are constantly being hit. The theft of wealth produced by the working class is increased after it relieves the state and the employer of the obligation to pay contributions. Only workers are paid, therefore, because so-called 'employers' are part of their wages. The JRC claims to reduce the tax on workers and, at the same time, requires an increase in capital taxation, which also comes from the workers themselves. We also claim that the state budget should be directed towards meeting social and people's needs rather than investing capitalists and the needs of naval armaments. With your policy, but also with this draft law, you are strengthening capitalist business groups. The money put on by private-security workers, but also in all forms of supplementary insurance, does not guarantee supplementary pensions, because the business groups - so capitalism - also works, damages, 'fordrows', i.e. closes, and periodic financial crises also produce such results. Let us remember the insurance company 'SPPIS' and others, which we have mentioned above. On the basis of this draft law, the JRC is once again putting the workers, the people, their position for purely public social security, i.e. the employer and the state to pay and not the workers, because the income in total comes from them. It is well known that business groups are involved in state revenues with one 5% and are enticing what is being robbed by workers and other populist strata. Demographic and birth reduction theories, as well as labour force and pensioners' growth, due to an increase in life expectancy, are fraud and deliberate arguments in order not to reduce, but to increase, profits at the expense of the working class. The issue for us is classic. The barrier to life with prosperity for all is capitalist property, which must be abolished and replaced by social ones. Workers must fight for the public insurance system, the redistributive as we have said. The bill is another tool for insurance companies to increase their customers, as they characterize the insured. It is further undermining of what is left over. There is no safeguard, no matter how much it is presented as such. There is, as I said, experience in our country. For example, there is the drug fund - we have also told the committees - which, since being set up, has reduced workers' pensions and benefits by 80%. In your statement that the directive ensures the rights of workers in the framework of the free movement of workers, which is one of the four freedoms of the Maastricht Treaty, we say that the European Union is the sovereignty of capital, its profitability and its increasing exploitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will go to the amendment, Mr President, and I shall finish. The government is attempting to present the amendment as a result of its policy, which has allegedly led to normality, while it is shown to bear some of the retrospectives, the stolen, that is, the workers and the retired. It also attempts on the one hand to despise the wrath of workers and pensioners for the great cuts, on the other hand to close the way to claiming the losses of workers and all pensioners. The Government must withdraw paragraph 3 of Article 6, otherwise it shall blackmail the Members in order to vote on this provision, which is unacceptable. We believe that you should take a stand immediately on this paragraph and withdraw directly from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u53	I don't understand. Do you vote for it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u54	We said: we are asking for paragraph 3 to be withdrawn. In other words, we say about this amendment that it does not solve or cover the losses which workers and pensioners have had over this entire period, which they claim. And decisions are not for a return part of these retrospectives, but there are others, which are not covered by this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u55	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u56	It is Article 6(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. The rapporteur for the ANE, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to remind you that as the FAA said. Hayek: Democracy is not an end in itself, but an instrument, a beneficial army, which helps ensure the highest political objective, economic freedom. It is the gospel of neoliberalism in the counterweight of the social state. It is not about constitutional reform, of course, but it is about the constitution of the market, which has been about generations and generations so far and about the constitution of society. A great deal has been said about the incorporation into the Greek legislation of this directive. First of all, I welcome the fact that, with very few exceptions, there is comprehension, there is unanimity from the Civilian Opposition Party and from many smaller parties. It is a matter that I believe we have all welcomed. All his seven articles. I think it is a positive contribution to adapting to this 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. I do not have much to say about this, as today, in my opinion, is a special day. And I say'special', because it may be one of the few times that the promises, which were neither excessive nor uncontrolled, are being made. I just want to remind you that some time ago the government in Belgium - through the Prime Minister, of course - committed itself to eleven specific realities, new ones, after leaving the memoranda. I would like to remind you: it was the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of the insurance contributions by the free professions, the reduction of 4% of corporate taxation, the grant of the rent, the strengthening and permanentization of the 'Help at Home' programme - and this has been launched for three thousand people - and the strengthening of special treatment. If some people do not say anything, it is what I said before: a social state, a constitution for society, as well as what Hajek said, that democracy is nothing, a pretext, which we use for economic freedom and neoliberalism. Also, in special treatment, we have four and a half thousand direct recruitment - some are already starting - with the abolition of trade tax for cooperatives, farmers, etc., a subsidy for insurance contributions for young workers under the age of twenty-fifths, a change in VAT, not excessive, but effective and effective procedures for increasing the minimum wage and abolishing the subordinate. Another commitment - and that is why I say it is a special day today - was the payment of all retrospectives to three, four categories of special wages. And since some of these amendments have been heard, I would like to say two words. I believe, indeed, that judicial decisions must apply to everyone. I do not want to overlook the fact that the illegal way of reducing pensions, wages is not just about them, but a large part of the Greeks and it is a sum of around 11.5 billion. With honesty, the government starts from them - and we will see why - and it commits itself to the extent that we are going to be normal - because, at the moment, a large part of Greek citizens are under the poverty line - for all judicial decisions on the lips of Ministers, not directly, because the economy would collapse. A special charge, then, is some flying every day. You'd see yesterday the violation that took place, where some flew, playing crowns - letters of their lives. Some porters, too, play crowns - letters of their lives. Some soldiers helped directly, without delay, to deal with thousands of immigrants, for whom we have received credit. I think, therefore, that all of these people are entitled - once it is a special salary - to be paid for it. It is the 820 million that this amendment has and will be made available. And I appeal to the others, who really may feel they're wrong, to make a little patience. The first legislation is today. She's not the only one. I want to assure you here: Today is the first day - so I say it is an excellent day - and twenty-three legislative arrangements will follow for what I said before, for eleven commitments. Twenty-three, ending at the end of November. Anyone who speaks of words can think about it again. They're acting. As things appear every day, I would like to focus on a point involving one and a half million Greek citizens. I would like to assure them, therefore, that in the first 10 days of December, what provides for the abolition of the personal difference will be abolished by legislation and, therefore, the non-pension of pensions will be permanently and irrevocably guaranteed. What I hear every day, or we all hear on different channels, is unbelievable. It's the hair! Incredible things! But for something about a million and a half pensioners, we do not hear kich! This will certainly not happen in November, the first fortnight of December. All the rest, one by one, will be legislated. The promises given by the government, through the Prime Minister in Belgium, will be carried out. I would like to remind you here, because I hear various voices and incredible things, that 'we have said them, but you have not done them'. I have in front of me a newspaper post, which is not left-wing. It is Die Welt, who even criticised the first months of governance and said that there are 800 billion euros of Greek deposits in banks, economic paradises, everything and called it "paper and squid". The country was taken for once bankrupt. The country received some 28% unemployment, with a deficit of 15% and today it is a surplus, but a surplus. Unemployment has fallen by seven points and is falling further. There was an incredible recession of 5.5%. Today there is little growth, though. I say this about Sirens, who daily sing in channels, newspapers, false news. So in a calm way, this government, definitively and irrevocably, is trying to get the country out of this pit, which has been for many years, where money was going to economic havens, strange off-shore, etc. Furthermore, because I happen to be all for months in the Committee of Inquiry into the scandals, I would like to remind you of some things. In my opinion, today is a historic day, because something starts. The government has made a commitment and is doing what it says. For one year and months - we have forgotten about the account - we have experienced incredible things. We saw, for example, what happened with the hospital "ERRIKOS DIANE", which only cost 200 million, without the twenty-five surgery, without the thirty-eight intensive care units, which I need and I don't find, without dialysis, without dailys, without on-calls, etc., one literally cognitive institution, which gave specialty, which was the time of doctors, which was almost public in nature. And I am not talking about what I am saying, but about what George Sourlas, your own man, Secretary-General of Human Rights at the Ministry of Justice, or else I had imagined and should pay the people who did so. This hospital, Henry Dunnan, for those who don't know it, with incredible intoxications, that we lived in close proximity, was sold to Piraeus Bank for 18 million euros while it makes a very good complex in Katali. The price should be EUR 0,5 billion. I hear various arguments, in fact: 'The tenders are fifty, they are sixty. What are you telling us? We got a hundred and fifteen." I'll remind them the market has rules. When you deceive something, you break it down. And a jewel really became what happened. Three qualified accountants, who were elected unanimously in the committee, without objection to any objection, found a hole between cheese and pears of EUR 89 million in the CEDEFOP. It can't be justified from anywhere. We're living a reality from which I think we should go. And today it is a historic one - in my opinion - day after day, because something seems to be going away and changing. I don't want to say any more. I just want to remind you that George Surlas himself, whom I call, said that the way some government handled health issues were harming the country every year by 12 billion euros. I'm not talking about it. It's Surlas. Look for them! In fact, it also identifies the period. I would also like to remind you - because some people are trying to throw ash in their eyes - that the United States itself imposed a fine of $350 million on seven multinational companies, including a disputed one, which we will see shortly after, who accepted that there were state officials and doctors bribes in Greece. I would like to finish - and I do not want to waste much time - to say that it has had to go through - and it is very important, because I have heard a lot of loud screams lately about the manufacture, criminalisation of political life and a number of other, extreme expressions that I do not have to say again, since Michel Joseran at 'LE MONDE' said he was bribing state officials for the freshmen. And it took an Interrogator of Corruption to ruin the world - and I quote, it is Mrs Zamanika - to get the two hundred and fifty thousand documents concerning Mr Papantoniou's term of office, which I hope he will carry out the presumption of innocence. There was a lyric resistance at that time to the new prosecutor of corruption, which if it hadn't been for the interrogator and a bold journalist, Mr. Papantoniou would have been released. And, finally, I would like to remind you of the cries of many - who had the same style three, four days ago - on 27 June 2017 in the preliminary committee for Mr Papantoniou. I don't want to mention names. The same people - like themselves, I have them in front of me, you know, the writings are left - saying: "Political demagoguery theaters," one said. The other said: "Selective criminalisation of political life". These people have been silent today and say: 'We talked about it.' Now that there is court assistance in five countries and all the accounts are opened, now that everything has been crossed, silence! But then they were singing. And to do this by some of PASOK's people, you will say "I understand, their own man was, they defend him." Oh, of the miracle, however, I have before me what four Members of the New Democracy were saying at that time. I won't mention their names, nor is it my intention to target anyone. I'm hollow. But a populist, I'm not. I will tell you what they said: 'Fiasco!' One of them said. Did you hear it again two days ago? Another was invoking us and saying: do not write the word'submit', because Mr Papantoniou will be affected. You will write 'transmission'. Another said: we have never entered the logic of misleading. I have in front of me the way in which we were dealt with at the time, which we have not delayed at all, and we have sent this matter - and we have done well - to justice directly, with the result that you have seen recently. I call and say to both major parties - the former big one and the other - because - and I am the first to say it - there are honest people: it is not in the country's interests, but it is not in your own interest to cover it. Keep distance, or you'll be exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Oinophilus High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For two minutes the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor to support the amendment to supplement Article 1 of the a.m. 33/2018 for the composition of the crew of shellfishing vessels during the transitional period from 10-10-2018 to 31-7-2019. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number 1795 and a specialist of 140. The n.e.c. 33/2018 - I do not mention the title for brief reasons - it stipulates that there must also be an observer in the composition of the crew of shellfish. A supervisor shall be the holder of a licence for the supervision of the School of Kalymnos Dymnos. By that provision, it changed the scheme in force since 1998, according to which the licence holder of a diver or apprenticeship diver referred to in Article 4 of the General Ports Regulation had an individual professional fishing licence. This regulation, which is correct, responds to the need to ensure that shellfish is safe, but it has caused several protests, because the Kalymnos School operates for a limited period of time and has the possibility of reducing the number of people who can have this permission from the monitor. Therefore, for the current fishing season and until more shellfish are allowed to gain this possibility, we add after paragraph 3 of Article 1 of Article 33/2018 the following paragraph: '4. From 1 October 2018 to 31 July 2019, the supervisor referred to in paragraph 2 may be replaced by a successful student at the Kalymnos School and, if there is no such, by a licence holder or a apprenticeship diver.’; As you can see, this solves an issue of the current fishing season, because otherwise shellfish could not get out of work. We aim, after the end of the period of operation of the Kalymnos School, to create local platforms for the certification of supervisors, so as to avoid suffering for these professionals. Please accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Mr Mavrotas (RDE). — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Mavrotas, on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I guess I'll be right back. The first part of my speech I shall refer to the ratification that we have in the second part of the amendments. This Legislation concerns improving supplementary pension rights to promote the mobility of workers between Member States. What does that mean in practice? That the scope of the Directive concerns supplementary pension schemes set up in accordance with the legislation and offering supplementary pension benefits for workers, such as group insurance contracts or systems operating on a distribution basis and agreed with one or more branches or sectors, capitalisation schemes or pension promises, supported by accounting stocks or any collective or other comparable agreements. In principle, therefore, it is good to talk about supplementary pension rights and it is an opportunity to talk about strengthening the second pillar of insurance, namely occupational insurance. In the light of the foregoing, the draft law, namely, refers in principle to those insured in occupational insurance funds, which in Greece do not exceed 15, with the four being compulsory. Potami, when voting for the insurance law in 2016, was the only party that had been explicitly mentioned in the need to strengthen the second pillar of insurance, professional insurance, but also the third pillar, which we believe could exist. This bill, therefore, concerns a few potential beneficiaries and it would have been preferable to relate more. But it's good, because it actually shows us the way. In a Europe that, increasingly, workers' mobility will increase, not only from country to country, but also from sector to sector, from industry to industry, it will be appropriate for this mobility to accompany their pension rights. So, as we have said in the committees, we are clearly positive. Let's go to the amendments. It is your favorite habit, even in sanctions, to table amendments. We have already heard Mr Santorini quoted the amendment number 1795 and a specific figure of 140 for shellfish vessels, their staff and the Kalymnos Diversos School. I was impressed, now in the context of the various mergers of institutions, schools and departments, how they did not put the Kalymnos Two School at the University of the Aegean, so that it could be upgraded already. It is something you should have thought about with the two-year structures that are being prepared. I'm giving some ideas, now that you've taken the mergers away. Let us go to Amendment No 1796 and to Amendment No 141, which deals with the regulation, which allows for the one-off payment resulting from the retrospectives, on the basis of the decisions of the Council of State on 31-7-2012. In other words, legal decisions are applied to uniforms, doctors, academics, musicians and judiciaries and the pensioners concerned. These retrospectives relate to different periods, which exist in the amendment. For the uniforms it is the period from 1-8-2012 to 31-12-2016, for the doctors of the ESS from 13-11-2014 to 31-12-2016, for the academics and researchers from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2016, i.e. two years, as well as for the musicians in the state orchestras, while for the judges from 1-8-2012 to 30-6-2014. The total cost is 1,4 billion euros. We would like to see in this particular provision how these EUR 1.4 billion are allocated to the various categories. We think it is something that is missing from this legislation. Indeed, after the Prime Minister's agreement with the Archbishop was announced earlier, because what was actually left is the release of ten thousand seats in the public service, it seems that the government's appetite for recruitment has generally been opened. We have heard it from the Government spokesman, Mr. Janakopoulos. How, then, did we have the Xenophon's 'Myrian Destroyer', which had reached the coastline and called'sea-sea'? The new project will be the "Enterprise of the Myrians", which will in the end call "definition-appointment". The Myrians, therefore, from the 'Myros Upturn', now in an attempt to 'Recover'. I say these, because from now on, your practice has shown itself in the notices for the Secretary-General of the Ministries, which were photographic, and some of them have caught you and 'with the sprout on your back' by the European Union and we have reopened them, there seem to be intentions. While the public has a shortage of staff on the front and surpluses in the post-movers, you are mainly interested in the relocations and how to create an election clientele, such as entities created, poster posts. So what's going on? They are disgusting public officials - and fortunately they exist - because otherwise they would not work the state - and the rest do not care, since there is no assessment, because it is a 'jiz' issue for the government in question. So we live in the days of the "blessed public" and whenever we live in such days, the smell of the elections lies in the air. Let us also say for her in this amendment. Of course we must apply judicial decisions, but ask ourselves, how we do, with the once-paid payment, is something that our economy can withstand and do not lead to a budgetary derailment, or do we not get the wrong messages from abroad? Tomorrow, the pensioners will come again by court decisions. Are we going to do the same? As we live in the days of the 'blessed public', there is also the poor private sector, private employees, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, in general. When will they see something? Because all they see is an overtax, so you can do after your piece with allowances and retrospectives. By the way, we now have the end of the Katseli Act, which ends from 1-1-2019 and you should bring something to replace it. We'll wait to see what this is. You can say, of course, that at least in retrospective terms, 1,4 billion euros, with the 820 million euros on the market, will also take a little breath, but the way you have done it, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the private initiative, which should be the engine of our economy and growth, has no incentive to produce, because from one point to the next it only works to pay taxes and contributions to a defective state. But without medium-sized entrepreneurship, without the middle-class, no growth is sustainable. GDP will be well-established if only the public entrepreneurship or the entrepreneurship of the citizens are working. But that is what we will see in the budget. I shall close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this. Know that in this very communication way you make this returns policy or benefits policy with celebrity announcements, etc., you may thank some, but some others, the headlines of the state-run system, I think you get them up to the bars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the Special Speaker of the Central Association, Mr. Megalomustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech carefully by carefully reading the title of the draft law we are discussing today and is: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014).’ It is therefore a European directive of 2014. Today we have 2018 and if we spend another month, in December, we will have 2019. You are bringing a very positive bill, which, of course, you did not create, but the European Union brought it, four and a half years behind. You weren't even four and a half years old, but you've got three closed. We have seen in this House that you are voting for bills, which are in no way proper legislation and such bills as today's see you are stalling and bringing them in a long time, perhaps at the last minute before the elections. And why do we characterise such a bill as a positive one? Because this draft law protects the free movement of workers within the European Union, i.e. they can move from one country to another in search of work and do not risk losing them all or part of their achievements, based, of course, on national legislation. Some of these are pensions or unemployment benefits. With this draft law, if it is adopted, it will be possible for the mobile worker to enjoy adequate pension rights wherever he is located. This bill essentially concerns those insured in occupational insurance funds. We in the Central Association could not oppose such a bill. However, we would expect from you, from a left-wing government, where it stands and where it finds itself, that she cares about the people, that she cares about society, in such a bill to bring amendments, which help those who have left to come back, that help those who have stayed in our country to start producing. But that can't be. It is a fourteen-page bill and the amendments that have been tabled are twenty-three and they are completely irrelevant to this bill. I shall speak briefly about these amendments. First, I want to talk a little bit about Brain Drain. It is a phenomenon that we hope, in a way, to combat or to lighten it up with this draft law. We would like legislation which alleviates young businesses, young scientists. Because in the last decade there have been five hundred thousand Greeks abroad to find work, and even, according to studies, the two hundred and fifty thousand of them are scientists, people to whom the Greek state has invested, people whose families and the state have studied them, fought, troubled, spent, obtained their degree and now go out because they see that there is no hope. There is no hope in Greece. Unfortunately, you had as a slogan that "the hope comes", but you are the ones who deprived it of the Greeks. That's obvious. If you walk the streets, you'll understand it yourself. Greece has lost 1/4 of its productivity and we have also lost a very important part of our production potential. What are you doing about it? You have programs that you're supposed to implement. That's the tragic thing in the whole case, that you don't do any of what you commit or you're committed to doing. The Greeks have completely devalued the political system and you are among the perpetrators of this crime, along with the previous ones, who have reached us in this difficult and difficult economic situation. I listened carefully to the colleagues, the other speakers of the parties and to the two speakers from both sides of Parliament - without putting them in any way in the same category - saying that Europe is bad, that Europe is bad, that it is not because we should be in Europe, rather forgetting all these positive things, which have taken place in recent years, all these freedoms, all these financial aid, through subsidies, all these right legislative frameworks, which we have created and adopted. The fact that our politicians have not properly used the supplies that the European Union grants them does not mean that it is Europe's fault. I'm sure she's made mistakes too. He certainly has not received the conditions, which are currently prevailing in Greece and has become more pressing than he should. However, it is not all Europe's fault. We must look for the responsibilities of those who have been ruling us and are ruling us to this day. I have also heard colleagues from the two parties who were ruling to date before the SYRIZA-ANEL co-existence takes over. One says that they gave their retrospectives, while they had cut off before wages and pensions - I do not even understand why this was mentioned - and another said that we are asking that pensions should not be reduced, when they have reduced so many times, not only pensions, but also wages and that has an impact on the Greek economy and therefore on Greek society, as young people - and not only - have difficulty in their biopoliticism, as well as on creating them. Because that's what young people want. Create a family, create businesses, create their own future, but also their children. And so only there will be a recovery in demographics, which we have often said is one of the country's main problems. Now let's go see what you're talking about in the coup d'état. The amendment you are bringing, in no case is a fair amendment, because not all the retrospectives - as you say that from the Katrugalos Act and then those sums need not be repaid, because it is a new reduced wage, which you, of course, define - and does not include all the groups and, of course, that could not be done. I do not want to plunder, but it could not be done, because the Greek economy would collapse with these 12 billion, which is estimated to be needed, to give the retrospectives to everyone. The great negative, however, in the whole case is that some co-government MPs are treading or selling fruitful hopes to the citizens, only for a political benefit. We cannot say or be heard by this step that those who have been wronged must wait. What are they waiting for? Give the retrospectives and the other pensioners? Let one minister or Member of Parliament answer the question responsibly if Greece's economy will ever be able to respond to this demand from the citizens, which is very fair. But let's answer with honesty and don't hide behind your finger. Get the information in the world. That's what she needs. You have deprived the hope of Greek citizens, and that is because of the policy that you have been following up to today. We heard Mr Tzanakopoulos say yesterday about this promotion of an agreement with the church - which we see has too many reactions, as rather you are'measure' in bringing bad agreements to this Parliament - that tens of thousands of jobs in the public sector will open, thereby selling hope, but not in 2019, because we do not have the financial margin. What do you say? That "we will be responsible later for opening the next ten thousand posts"? Are you kidding the world? You do the exact same thing that those you blame. You're walking the Greek people. That's why no one takes us seriously and it's your fault. You cannot promise everything without being able to implement any of it. I don't understand where you stand this optimism. You're saying in the next two months you're going to give the world. Why were you waiting right now? I wish you would give what you have taken, in the way you legislate, by overtaxation, by increasing, in many cases, contributions, with the policy, which in no way is there to help the Greek citizen. What are you doing with the law of Katseli, which ends? Why don't you answer the questions we've asked you? What will give the Greek citizen hope when you speak with half a word, when you mock the Greek, because you do not implement any of the things you have committed to doing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much. We move on to Mrs Papanatsiou, who will support Amendment No 1796, 'Following a single sum of money to uniforms, judicial officers, medical staff, teaching staff, artistic and other staff and pensioners of these categories of staff'. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the implementation of the 2018 budget and in the context of the sound management and financial legitimacy that the Constitution imposes on us and because we have the financial area, we are coming today with Amendment No 1796 and special number 141 and we propose, with Articles 1 to 5, that we pay a single sum of money. With Article 1 we propose to pay a single amount of money to the strains of the Armed Forces of the Security Corps for as long as they were in operation, during the period from 1-8-2012 to 31-12-2016. A single amount of money shall be paid corresponding to the difference between the monthly earnings which they will be entitled to receive on the basis of the wage provisions in force at 31-7/2012 and the monthly earnings actually paid on the basis of Article 86 of the Law. Date of birth: 4307/2014. For this category in the first article of Armed Forces and Security Bodies, the period is from 1-8-2012 to 31-12-2016. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In Article 2 we propose the payment of a single amount of money to the medical staff of the ESS, public health doctors, subsidiary doctors and qualified doctors for as long as they were active from 13-11-2014 to 31-12-2016. In Article 3, it is proposed to pay a single amount of money to the TEN, SPD, EDPS members of universities and TEIs and other staff. The amount of the financial contribution to be paid by the Member States concerned shall be calculated by reference to the period from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2016. With Article 4, it proposes the payment of a single amount of money to the members of the permanent artistic staff of the Athens State Orchestra, the Thessaloniki State Orchestra and the Orchestra of the National Lyric scene and the amount of money paid single, as we have said, is calculated by reference to the period from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2016. We also have the payment of a one-off amount of money to the judiciary and the members of the main staff of the Law Council of the State for the period from 1-8-2012 to 30-6-2014. Article 6 provides, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, but also in the light of the insurance reform of Law No.4387/2016, that a similar one-off amount of money is to be paid for public pensioners from the above categories of staff for the period up to their entry into the scope of Law No.4387/2016. The expenditure incurred in implementing the proposed provisions amounts to EUR 1.4 billion in mixed terms and EUR 800 million in net terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis King has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time I have listened to many of you arguing about the amendments and the positive measures which the government is currently bringing forward, starting today. So I have to remind you of some things. The country's exit from the magnificence of the monumental austerity is the opening stash for the passage to the memorial era and the return to normality. The time has finally come when Greece is definitively and fully recovering its economic sovereignty and independence, when responsibility for the policies chosen returns to the hands of the elected government by the people and not to technocrat foreigners, who are imposing their opinion on us. Unfortunately, it has been disproved in the political assessment made by the Qualified Opposition throughout this period. We have fought for the past three years and have kept the country at cost and personal costs each of us, but also political, I would say to you, if necessary. But one is the sovereign. We have insisted on the result, so that the country does not fall into the climax of uncontrolled bankruptcy, while keeping society upright. Now the time has come for them to start refreshing the fruits of their labors and their sacrifices, millions of Greeks, who have put back on the hard. Our country is turning a page. We are going to go through a new period, which will take the position of austerity every day and more so social justice, where democracy will again prevail in enforcement, where stability, security and certainty will replace uncertainty and anxiety. The price of the Memorandum period was very heavy and perhaps not necessary. I'd say nothing necessary. All this now belongs to yesterday. It is up to everyone not to repeat the mistakes of the past, to put a definitive end to all these pathogens that have been afflicting the country for decades. It is not possible to find plaster boards and behind them, all these sinners, which were happening. You were responsible for ruling the country in the past few years. Memorandum Greece must and will be another country. Along with the exit from the memorials and the comitology, there must be a resurrection of the expectations of the Greek people and especially of the social strata, which have paid a heavy price. The question at this time is to set growth on a solid basis. To do this, there must be a fair and socially balanced redistribution of the wealth produced. It's day one. So while the previous governments have reduced by seventeen times the wages and pensions, we have managed to resist and not just reduce wages and pensions, but to slowly rehabilitate, especially those who have been most affected by the lack of the New Democracy and PASOK governments. So, in accordance with the amendment we are voting on today, we are returning one-off to the commissioners and not only, but also to the teachers of the Higher Military Training Institutions, the amount of money that you had cut out in the previous period. It is not one - and I say it directly - of imposing the Council of State. It is not just a legal issue, but it is a political option, which we make by starting with these accusations. I read the last few days of articles that the opposition tells us - and you said it today, that is - that we have and we are moving on to compulsion. Look, the Opposition - I am talking about the New Democracy, but it does not, of course, relieve the others - to determine what its position is and to come out and openly say what it proposes to the world. It is in a strategic deadlock, as it seems from its inability to draw up an alternative proposal, which does not contain hard anti-social ideas, such as the abolition of the eighth or Pinochet insurance system. That's why he prefers to put questions in the House about whether to abolish the "Macedonian unfamiliar", which is why we hear concerns about whether SYRIZA abolishes Christmas. You were extremely disturbed by the agreement, which was made yesterday and was an excellent agreement, an honest agreement, with respect, on the part of the Prime Minister of the country, the Government and the Mariottan Archbishop of Athens. I would ask, however, at some point, that the New Democracy Members put aside the whole spread of theake news and answer what they mean when they talk about the election benefits of the SYRIZA. We had said from the first moment as a government that the retrospectives to the personnel of the Armed Forces will be paid. That's exactly what we're doing. So where does the impulse result from? Unless the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis have considered a pre-election period for the whole four years, because that is what they have been saying for four years. The permanent enclave is the request for recourse to the polls. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The vote of today's amendment is a move towards respect and recognition for all the personnel of the Armed Forces, because at a time when the degrees of economic freedom and independence of our country were reduced, the maintenance of merit and the strengthening of their deterrent role were that guaranteed stability and did not allow any foreign players to think that the status quo in the region could change. Men and women of the Armed Forces have devoted a large part of their lives to the service of their homeland. They proved it throughout the refugee period. All this has been achieved, which has honoured me at this time and - for me it is important - they continue to do so openly and by respecting, by honour, their social role. So it is not their offer to fulfil the defence of territorial integrity, as I have told you, but their social role, to support the daily life of the Greek citizen. I'm used to saying it's two pillars. One is the pillar for the Armed Forces of peaceful dealing with things, their deterrent force, but the second pillar, the very basic one, is their contribution to society as a whole, since they are all part of the same society, which in this way have defended all this difficult period and have suffered difficult tasks. With the number of actions they contribute to the rescue, aerospace, forest fire prevention and repression. We thank them and recognize them. I call on you all to vote on the amendment and you will vote from now on on amendments, which are measures to alleviate and support the social groups, which are unblemished but with 'blood' - I would say - in the previous period have helped and managed to get out of the deadlock. And that's what we're bringing them back. We're not hiding the money. We are not sending them to offshore, ladies and gentlemen. We give them to those who have suffered, but today they can see another perspective for their own lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy MP Savvas Anastasiades is calling for a foreign leave, namely Albania, on 8 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u70	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Minister has the floor now, Mrs Olga Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that because of the economic crisis the previous governments chose in '10 and '12 to agree on two memoranda which they were supposed to leave the country from the war of the economic crisis. As a major measure in these two memoranda, it was not structural changes, which were supposed to come to change the country's image, but they were, in fact, cuts in pensions and salaries and redundancies of civil servants. That's where they relied, and that's why they failed. They have failed today and the inspirations of these memoranda have stated that it was really a wrong recipe. These measures have, therefore, horizontally undermined a large proportion of both employees and pensioners and, of course, they are measures which we know are signed by which parties. Also, after voting on the reductions, they also voted for retroactive reductions and cuts so that employees and pensioners would be forced back and part of their previous earnings. Within them of course were civil servants, civil servants, rewarded and with special wages, including those of the Security Bodies, the Police and the Firefighting. The choice of the main reform to be the cuts in pay for workers and pensioners was not random. It was a conscious choice with ideological substrate, an ideological substrate that is supported today as the main position of the New Democracy, namely that public services can not be provided by the public sector, but can be provided by the private sector in every way over the years by the public sector. In these years, then, we in the last memorandum did not touch wages, we did not touch basic pensions, we tried with nails and teeth to implement structural changes, and ultimately at the reverse of the logic of the previous Memorandums, we managed to support the state, to support the services of the social state in the measures of course within the narrow budgetary framework. However, we have exhausted it every possibility, every small crack we have exhausted it to support the social state and the services of the state. Today, then, we can, we have possibilities, the financial possibilities allow it and the government goes ahead with today's amendment to restore part of these injustices for employees of special wages, which, of course, are also included in the members of the Security Councils, and we are now returning the retroactive detentions that have taken place since 2012, with the possibility that the final exit from the memorandums will be possible. The final exit from the memorials was the prerequisite to being able to do so. The political will, however, requires us to do so today is a first positive measure after leaving the memoranda voted on in the Greek Parliament. As far as the Ministry of Civil Protection is concerned, we restore an injustice of 53,000 Greek Police officials and 9,600 Firefighting officials and 5,000 pensioners and their families. Of course, we all know - I would like to point out - that this is a category of workers with a particularly difficult task and special conditions in the performance of their work. We are starting today with this law, we are voting for the first positive budgetary measure after the final end of the memorandum, with steady steps, without jeopardising the budgetary objectives. We are determined, we prove it, we restore step by step, all the injustices imposed by the budgetary restrictions and the memoranda in our country, regardless of whether those who brought the memorials in the country are moving today. We will act every measure announced by the government, which improves the lives of Greek citizens, Greek workers and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Minister Constantine Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat much of what my colleagues have said before. I will add that the course towards normality is extremely complex, not from one day to the next, but very importantly, the steps that are taking make this progress to normality. Regarding the Ministry of Education, the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition announced the subject of university retrospectives, as well as the appointment of four and a half thousand teachers for special education. In a few days' time, the government announced that, for the first time in ten years, fifteen thousand teachers, four and a half thousand in 2019, five thousand two hundred fifty in 2020, five thousand fifty in 2021. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As you know, we have a very large number of substitute teachers who in these years of crisis have given their best shot and have supported our educational system and we must also see how best, always within the framework of the decisions of the Council of State, we will be able to reach the recruitment system. Of course, the vulnerabilities have not been missing, I would say, newspapers that all this is an excuse, that all this is not a material basis. They said so before the budget was published, when they saw that the budget is provided for. They didn't express a single element of self-criticism. The same thing, as you have seen, happened after the historic agreement between the Church and the state. Things have been written that no one can understand, as to symbols, as to Christmas, etc. In what we are going to do to solve historical unfinished situations, in what we are going to do to guarantee normality, we find in front of us in public speech a bar of alleged objections, but which, in our view, expresses an insurmountable panic on the part of those who thought we would not get through. So today, with the payment of the retrospectives to university teachers and teachers of the higher education establishments, as well as to specialist teachers, together with the laboratory teaching staff, we solve an injustice of the many who have suffered this place and of the many who have suffered different social categories. The same applies to researchers and specialist scientists in our research centres. We again think it is a solid step towards regularity, it is a solid step that will help us to establish the single research and education area, the great reform plan that we have with the debate on the new architecture of our higher education institutions and the synergies between the universities and the TEIs. It is really another small, possibly, but important, vote in this new mosaic that portrays a new reality for our higher education as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Minister Fotis Kouvelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, the decisions of the Council of State, as well as the ruling of the Special Court under Article 88(2) of the Constitution, which accepted that this remuneration was cut in breach of the Constitution. However, despite the existence of these decisions, the government could extend the time for payment of this amount, which is paid in order to restore an equitable injustice, such as injustice, and indeed in the nature of unconstitutionality, and the Council of State, as well as the Special Court under Article 88 of the Constitution. There is, however, the appropriate financial space and so the government, and it could, if you like, extend the payment to another time of this particular amount, now comes to pay it. And it does so because - I repeat - through a specific economic policy it chooses - because the financial area exists - to restore this injustice. I would say, however, that it is not only legitimate that it is also moral. And it is legitimate and especially moral in relation to a category of teams in this regard, the men and women of the Armed Forces, the Police, the Port Authority and the Hellenic Coast Guard, if we consider which services they offer, with what real sacrifice and commitment to duty. And this act of the government, as expressed by the specific regulation of the law, in this amendment, goes beyond keeping the legality of responding to a remedial procedure that actually refers to this moral element, which I mentioned just before. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this amendment, let us all understand what these men and women who are serving in the Armed Forces, the Police, the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard are doing. Let me confine myself to what concerns the Ministry of Shipping. They are left to cover the organic positions of about a thousand five hundred positions. In other words, with a thousand and a half seats, these men and women are protecting the country's borders and carrying out multiple tasks related to the sea, with shipping. I would tell you that for these men and women of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard, there are no hours, no overtime allowances. And yet, without bitterness, but with full consciousness of what has determined the economic reality of the country, they have continued to do the duty with particular devotion. I would like to say that what is happening today with the amendment restores an injustice. It is, of course, in line with the rulings of the courts and, of course, serves legality. At the same time, however, it serves and highlights the specific choice that all those injustices that have been experienced in the past as a result of the country's economic situation should be restored. In this respect, I think that the vote in favour of the amendment by all Members is an act of obligation - I repeat - not only against legality and as determined by judicial decisions, but also against morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has the floor, Mrs Myrsini Zorba.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the special payrolls are part of the permanent artistic staff of the Athens State Orchestra, the Thessaloniki State Orchestra and the Orchestra of the National Lyrical Scene, so, among other things, there have been reductions in their earnings and today we are coming to restore this deficit. Of course, top court rulings were opened, in which the cuts were judged to be unconstitutional. Subsequently, partial compliance with the content of these decisions was sought through the retroactive reform of the special wages and their restoration to 50%. Several were then vindicated after it was found that the administration had to restore them fully and not partially, as it had done. Of course, for each category, different time periods apply, since they have been brought before the courts on different dates. However, we believe that payment of the sums paid to payees with special wages artists must be harmonised and we are therefore tabling this amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has the floor, Mr Paul Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of justice, it is a day that we are actually proving that what we are doing is doing it, that the first of the measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition are being implemented. I would remind you how many Cassandras in the public speech and in the media we have heard in the previous period, namely that it cannot be done. And today there have been some such voices from what I saw from the rapporteurs, that 'there will be budgetary derailment', 'we will send the wrong signal to the markets', etc. Well, listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, we're with the world of work. We were, we were, and we'll be. Our social contract is not your contract, which went bankrupt in the previous years, in 2010. You have chosen a social contract with the powerfuls of this country through state supplies, through overpriced, which has indeed led to fiscal derailment and bankruptcy. You threw a bone in the pistols so they wouldn't talk. We were forced and signed a compromise - a compromise in July 2015. We managed to get the country out of the memoranda and the committee, firstly, because the people supported us, secondly, because we fought it night - day and, thirdly, why we did not steal. So because we didn't steal, that's why they're abundant. That is why the 1.4 billion we share not only on the basis of judicial decisions, but also with a political choice in various social categories, to which major cuts had been made in previous years. That's not all that's happened, though. The expansion of collective agreements has brought money into the pockets of more than two hundred thousand employees in tourism, for example. This has already been done. The fact that the media are hiding it, which every day is bad news angels, doesn't mean it doesn't happen. People feel in their pocket, as they will feel all the measures, such measures, which will be taken at the very next time, because that is the first. I come more specifically. What is happening today is also about the doctors of the public health system, the uniforms, the judges, the academics, is a basic political choice of the government. We do not have the same horizontal decision on the category of doctors in the ERC and on the way in which the legal claim had been made and on their part. But, for reasons of equality and equalisation, we have decided on the basis of the financial possibilities, which we have, the 2012 cut, to give. And to give it from when this appeal was filed, i.e. October - November 2014 to 31-12-2016, because since January 2017 the new salary, in which we have increased the basic wages - which means that we have paid pensions tomorrow - and the day after tomorrow - has given a small increase in the low charges. This expenditure is practically translated into a performance of twenty-six months of retrospectives to all the doctors of the ESS who were serving at the time and who are "clean" in the pocket of about EUR 60 to 560 per month for each doctor who served for this period. Similarly, there is such a payment for pensioners, for whom, due to the adoption of the new insurance law, nineteen months will be granted retrospectively. That's not the first thing we did in health. At the time of the previous memorandum, we did some things, what we could, because we are with the world of work. We want to reward those who work and not those who provide. The first increase in time of memorials in 2016 was the ancestor’s allowance to agricultural doctors, the 400 euros. In the middle of the third memorandum, we have given this and in this way, out of some four hundred licensed barren agricultural medicine in the country - which at that time was fifty - sixty-five full - is currently over three hundred fifty. In cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence, we are also rewarded by the armed doctors and by wages and on-calls and on-calls if they exist in nearby health centers and doctors who serve in these medical establishments. Secondly, we increased about 15% the fee of nights and excellent holidays to all the staff of the ERC. We could give that back then and we gave it away. We've increased on-calls. To say it fat. We have received a allocation from you of EUR 298 million per year for the payment of newspapers and overtime all the staff of the National Health System and currently exceeds EUR 360 million on an annual basis. Within memorials this has been done, because we are redistributing this type of thing. We did not send stamps "pay the suppliers of pharmaceutical companies, because we have junk". We've done this thing for the past three years. We found the money, and we gave it away. And that's not all. We paid for some 60 to 70 million “loans” of your own, on-call newspapers, unpaid on-calls and overtime in many hospitals in the country from 2011 to 2014. Then you paid them once or twice a year. Now there is a regularity in payments. A great deal of regularity in payments, and if we did not have some Commissioners and the way in which they explained the law, we would not have had any sporadic problems. That is why it really seems ridiculous to mobilize some types, which in an orderly service discover catastrophe, cockroaches, necks, plagues, and I do not know what right and left in Greece. Others are poor of them. There's no material basis for what they're doing. At the level of dealing with remuneration and payment of work to healthcare staff we have returned for a long time to normality. We're closing a big wound with this thing we're doing now and from now on, so we're going to continue. At the rate of machine guns, Mr Stakoura, positive measures will come from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Michael Kalogerou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, the provisions relating to us are Article 5 and Article 6. A consistent request and a consistent claim for the judges of the country and the chief staff of the Legal Council of the State is met. Repayment of the remaining half of their remuneration for the period from 1-8-2012 to 30-6 2014. With this decision, in addition to satisfying a fair request, there is also an institutional restoration of the constitutional order in the face of a number of judicial decisions, which are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to this amendment. But what are the critical political conclusions that I think are relevant to this House? First of all, it is a regulation which, as a whole, - and as has been put forward by colleagues - concerns the social majority. It's about a lot of social mattresses, a lot of workers, the middle mattresses. One of the prisoners. Secondly, it comes to prove in practice the great effort of this government over the past few years, on the one hand, to implement the programme's commitments and, on the other hand, at the same time - and that is why the government has been very vigilant in this day - to face the unprecedented humanitarian crisis that we have all experienced in previous years and, at the same time, to create the necessary financial space for us to actually lead to decisions and to implement decisions to repair damage and healing the wounds, which have felt all the social strata contrary to a plan of social automation, which preceded the Memorandum of Understanding, where social groups and groups of workers have been isolated and appeared to be privileged. Here, on this point, my position concerns all the judges in the country who appeared to be privileged in order to justify political decisions to cut their remuneration. So this government is practically creating another imprint of what the completion of the programme is in August 2018, against this argument, which is being raised by Civic Anti-Civilisation, but also by the other parties of anti-Civilization, that is, that we have and are living a fourth memorandum without money. I think that this argument is now too lame. This will continue with the subsequent legislative initiatives of the government, which will come in the next few years, initiatives that will continue to protect the social majority, to address the humanitarian crisis and to create a framework of practical policy, resulting from the efforts of this government in this new financial area. I conclude by saying that the implementation of this provision will be completed by December next month. I would like to make this clear, because the provision itself provides for a ministerial decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 1st Ovreas Achaias Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] This is the last of the ministers, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, who has the floor. Immediately afterwards, we shall enter the debate with the parliamentary representatives and my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u83	But Mr. Santorinius has spoken!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u84	He's already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u85	I did not have time to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u86	The amendment will speak, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u87	Just two minutes, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u88	Only for three minutes will the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u89	Well, talk about the bill after and talk about every article separately. What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u90	Does it bother you to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u91	No, sir, it doesn't bother me, but the time here is organized under the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't bother me when you speak under the Rules of Procedure. It bothers me when you talk, breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u92	Well, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u93	Let me put it this way, Mr President. Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u94	Mr Javarra, in his details the Rules of Procedure are sometimes violated, with the formality that you say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, but that doesn't discharge...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u96	Now does Mr Santorinios want the amendment three minutes to the floor and we are doing the whole thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u97	His choice was to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u99	I talked two minutes about the previous amendment, is that such a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u100	What are these things? What do you think, we'll end up with everything here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u101	Does it bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u102	No, it bothers us to keep talking. You're taking the floor all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u103	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, today's amendment is a precursor to many positive regulations and in that sense you will listen to us many times in the next few days who come to overthrow the injustices of the eight-year memorandum. We understand that it is difficult for many of you here to believe that August 21st 2018 was not a random day. Society, people of work, pensioners, businessmen understand much better than you that any subsequent bill that this government will bring, will benefit them. We managed not only to survive, not only to stabilise, but also to begin to recover. Our own government is returning it to society by restoring one - one of the injustices that have taken place. And that differentiates us from those who managed power in the years of the crisis. We drove the country out of memorials and move forward. Today, 820,000,000 euros are returned from retrospective detentions made in the years of the memoranda to doctors, academics, judiciary and, of course, to the people of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies and the pensioners of these categories. It is money that has been secured by the economic policy that we have pursued and, above all, by the fight against corruption and conflict. They are funds distributed without affecting the 3.5% surplus target to which we have already committed ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Port House are men and women who are struggling every day to save human life at sea and to safeguard our borders. The return of those who have been unjustly held back is only a small recognition of their work that they do without hours. Today we are returning all the retrospectives once again as a result of political will and not of legal commitment and this is not the first time that this government has been standing next to the port and other uniforms. Political will was when even in difficult budgetary conditions, the allowance was introduced to those who serve at the border and in the Aegean islands. Political will was the strength of the new wage in such a way that the total gross wages have been adjusted to the exact same level as the previous one in the form of payment of personal disputes. Political will is also the one-off payment of retrospectives. Ladies and gentlemen, today, if I were you, I would be accountable to the Security Body and the Armed Forces for the policies you have implemented in the years of your governance. You have cut their wages, frozen their wages, brought them to their limit, and now we are restoring the injustices of those years. Every day that passes, society will understand that we mean and act on fair growth. We will continue it and bring in a series of measures to prove it in practice, with you or without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andreas Loverdes has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Air Force is celebrating. We wish, as a Movement of Change, many years for women and men who lie at the top of the spear of our country's defense. And at the same time we remember and honor the memory of those who fell in the orderly performance of their duties in wartime, but also in a time of peace. I will talk about the special wages for the military authorities, because we had the Prime Minister's speech yesterday at the Air Force Day, but also about all the special wages mentioned by the ministers earlier. Of course, any strengthening of citizens in this difficult and long-term context of the crisis is a very good development. However, no one is entitled to the application of judgments - and indeed, in some cases, the application of half of the judgments - presents it as an economic policy and presents it as an economic policy in inappropriate areas. When the Armed Forces celebrate, you don't address them with election speeches and humours. When the Armed Forces celebrate, you're talking about their role. But, because I was present, I'm also going to give you the information that when the Prime Minister mentioned this about special payrolls, it was not applauded, obviously, because no one is any longer involved by those who have become accustomed to lying. With regard to the third issue, the State-Church Agreement was reported by Minister. I didn't mean to talk, but there was a statement made by the Minister. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take note of two arguments I shall put before you. First of all, the first finding is that whoever negotiates with Mr Tsipras takes everything from him. The Archbishop in this debate is the Catholic winner and all the material. But now we are going to look at a number of issues seriously related to the revision of the Constitution which starts next week and which the future State and Church agreement has come to an end. Look out! If it has been produced, as you say, a serious problem from the current constitution - I do not believe it - it is about religious in schools. The recent decision of the Council of State, criticised by science, number 660-2018, supports its final decision in Article 16 of the Constitution, which defines as the State's mission the cultivation of religious conscience for citizens. And even though there is a scientific interpretation saying that this culture of religious conscience is not one-sided, the courts have implemented, as the Council of State has done for many years, this constitutional arrangement. Why do you not include this in your proposals for the revision of the Constitution? Why don't you put Article 16, in the paragraphs of which - at first - references this mission of education? You're hiding it from Article 16. You are not referring to Article 16. However, that is where the basic legal argument is based and then by a reduction to Article 3 and the rest. However, the head office of the case is Article 16. Silence! At the same time, you come to tell us that you are making an agreement which frees the state from the bonds, has clergymen as employees of the state etc. and transfer these people to metropolitan cities, as we have heard at least, which are legal entities governed by public law. Have you understood the issues you are talking about in Greek society and making fun of it or have you no idea? Are you going to change these legal persons and make them private? I can't see it. You didn't say what you wanted to do with it. Haven't you thought of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u106	NGO.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u107	Cultural unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u108	Do you know how other religions are organized? You know? In other words, you have a argument about a society which is not obliged to know what the legislator knows. I doubt, of course, whether the majority today controls its words. But the world, the daily citizen, people have their jobs. We need to know about them. You mock them that they were supposed to be a step forward in the conquest of distinct roles of State and Church. And you have forgotten the other phrases you have used and remind you of them by your own Members who have come out against this agreement. Fourthly, Mr Petropoulou, I need an explanation between colleagues. When your MPs speak of the decision of the Council of State, 2287/2015 and the next, judged unconstitutional the provisions of previous laws, they put in my own laws and Mr Kutrumanis. On behalf of both Mr Kutrumanis and on behalf of my side, therefore, I would like to tell you that our laws have all been considered constitutional. I have here in front of me one of these decisions, Decision 2287/2015, which expressly mentions the provisions of the laws which have been considered as unconstitutional by the Council of State. Please let this House know that they do not go out to the media and say what they want. Now we're going to the retired people's claims. This is an issue that the government manages has caused salt. And I would like to send a message to the absent Minister of Labour that he should not prejudge the judgments of the courts, as Mr Tsipras, for example, from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition on the decision of the Council of State on television licences, made. Not even one in a million was likely to lose this trial, and this trial was lost, as we all learned a few weeks later. How does Mrs Ahtsoglou not give a chance at the opposite course of judgments in the courts? It must be careful, because none of us is entitled to anticipate judgments of justice. And because you said a lot - not you, but a lot has been heard today - I will do something that has been done before. Maybe it's been done several times. I will read to you what follows Mrs Ahtsoglou's argument that justice will not be a problem: 'The appeals against primary court rulings have the following reason: It says their Ministry, insulting: because wrongly assessing the evidence and misinterpretation and wrongly applying the law and with insufficient reasoning, the primary court has decided the above, while, if it correctly assessed the evidence, it would reject the action, in particular, according to the provisions of Law 3845/2010... - Papandreou Government - '3863/2010' - 'Papandreou Government - '3886/2011' - likewise - '... of Law 4051/2012 and Law 4093/2012'. The above provisions..." - Listen! - "...they were voted and applied for the public interest, which in this case is identical to the interests of its citizens, since the possible total collapse of the Greek economy as a result of the international economic crisis would be likened to the households of all Greek citizens as well as to the full occupation of all Greek citizens". He invokes our argument when you stoned us. And some Members say to the media or to some journalists who make MPs: "Yes, the State Legal Council said that." The supervisory minister, the supervisory minister concerned, shall have a say in the arguments put forward by the Legal Board of the State. And in such cases it is very careful to formulate. Here, as in the submarines, as in the PSI issues, you argue with our arguments, those that you stoned from Syntagma Square and elsewhere. And Minister Ahtsoglou, who is prejudicing judicial decisions, said about what he sees today from the White Tower of Thessaloniki: "They are the laws of them and not the right one. The people are right and not the troika technocrats." That's it for us not to forget. That is to know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what your Government says today and makes you say other things to the media when you are provoking and discussing with representatives of other parties. And the method of what he has no arguments, of what he has lost all his battles, of what he has done nothing compared to what he promised, to win elections, after he has collapsed as SYRIZA in relation to what he said, what is it? What solution has he left? Change the words. And George Skampardon in the “News” reminded Sartre that whoever loses the battle on the track of reality is changing the words. Why am I saying it? I would remind you, colleagues, SYRIZA and ANEL, that you were smuggling Mr Katrugalos when he made an insurance policy - which, Mr Petropoulou, no longer exists, you do not have an insurance system - that you did not apply our law and now you are in a salt. You have a Katorugalou law, which you used to permeate when you voted for it, which is now withdrawn, a Katorugalou law, which is now perforated, and that is not the end of the argument of counterpopulation from our side today, that you have no insurance. You're four years old and you don't have insurance. But what did he say to get your applause here? This law you no longer want him to call it "reflection". He did not say 'I make changes to the insurance system and to make it take, I will make cuts'. The personal difference, brother, was hiding it from you. We told you, but you didn't accept it. He called it "reflection". Mr. Yiannis Vlastaris, who has written this beautiful book "Lexic without ties", defines the "reconstructing" of Katrugalos as follows: "Reconstructing: This is how the Minister Giorgos Katrugalos translates the reduction of all pensions, which he, of course, promised to increase in Syntagma square." However, the regeneration of pensions results in a rejuvenation of reality, when this Minister insists that there is no reduction, even before pensioners who already hold their wages cut off. You said here that you're changing architecture and not making cuts. You have made the most drastic cuts, if what I hope will not apply this year, although every year, according to the budgetary results and the infamous surpluses that you have committed us to produce by 2022, it will be receptive at any time to its implementation, it will be ahead, it will be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this, which confuses a firm criticism, four years of criticism, hard but fair and not immoral, as you are accustomed to, ends somewhere sooner or later. In five months' time, however, the country is going to European, municipal and regional elections and, as you may well show, parliamentarians. But we don't know that, you know, or at least your Prime Minister. The result in regional elections, particularly in European elections, as we see it coming, has a title for you: Black, fumo and duco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Mr. Petropoulou, will you make your main speech or intervention? I ask you why it matters to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u110	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Stavura, wait a minute. You're here in a row because the New Democracy needs to speak. You asked me to give the general guidelines of the New Democracy. Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I am going to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u113	Good, Minister. Please intervene, Minister, so that Mr Stagioras may speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u114	I think it is more appropriate for the Qualified Opposition to be heard. About a hundred and twenty years before the French Revolution, Moliere wrote "Tartufo". He's a social character. It is one of the most embodied forms of the individual, who, while ungodly, is hypocritical, is challenging and is trying to fool everyone, dressing up the respectable one, fooling his boss, trying to take his wife away, trying to separate the child with the daughter and finally uncovering himself, as he makes the honorer of those whom he has devastated. I hear from the morning talking about the 'period of shame', the 'big disaster', the one that brought about the large reductions in the pensions of EUR 64 billion in total - so much that they have come as a reduction all this time by the PASOK and New Democracy governments - and it is guilty of anyone trying to take out themselves, their tail from outside. Mr. Loverdos says: Was it my laws? In 2012 and 2013, for which periods at least the Council of State, I remember, unless I am mistaken, it was a PASOK-New Democracy Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u115	Not my people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u116	I'm not talking about you, Mr. Loverdo. Didn't you vote? Where were you? They didn't have your signature? That's the taturism. It is now a world term and is constantly being used for those who hide the truth. And what are you coming to tell us? That we should not support a law which, according to proportionate studies carried out by both lenders and ILO - the International Labour Office - and which has been ratified as correct, confirms the viability of a system that does not need to make cuts? You've been ravaged for so long with the cuts and now that you see no cuts, you've been eaten up defenders of lawsuits to give the retrospectives to the assumptions you've reduced. Suddenly you have become protectors of those who have harmed you. You've been in front as protectors of the wronged by you. There is no one to put a logical line on what we see, because we are dizzy and still with what the protagonists of this catastrophe say. But isn't there even a limit to your unreasonable argument, as it actually turns against you? The bill doesn't make anything else. Wherever you look behind what you say, there is a signature and responsibility of New Democracy and PASOK. You say to us 'why do you not vote on our own laws and proposals to prevent these cuts from being cut'? That's unthinkable. Are you bringing in provisions to overthrow all the reductions that you have brought, and you mean that already? We must believe it so that you can come back to the government to do everything the same and worse. Because what we have done is to maintain a sustainable social security system which, Mr Loverdo, was not guaranteed in your own law. Your law has never been enforced, on the contrary, it has started to be violated since the day of its creation. In the provisions you put there was no survival area, with the successive reductions you brought. On the basis of the margin that the Greek economy had, as set out in the first memorandum and in Law 3863 that you drawn up with the lenders or rather the lenders and you signed up for - because that was the case, under the conditions that you claimed to be exceptional - 16.2% of GDP is the maximum financial expenditure on pensions. That is why you have constantly made cuts, because 16.2% were constantly spending. That's the truth, and you have to tell her. And now you come to me and tell me that after the recession caused by this collapse of the economy and it has brought down pensions, thus bringing about a reduction in GDP, as if nothing has happened, no period that has caused this recession - in the present year all the reductions, now give us about 63 billion and completely overthrow what we have built. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Finally - because I do not want to break time - you want to lie to Mrs Ahtsoglu who is missing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u117	Change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, we're changing everything. I will finish with this comment. But can you still talk? I'm asking myself. You cause rage...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u119	Easy, easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u120	Let, Mrs. Vulture, you always talk to hear your name from the person you're interrupting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u121	You're not elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u122	But it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u123	Put the tons down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u124	Now that you're gonna keep me from saying I'm not elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u125	Minister, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u126	Please, too! I have a responsibility. I have taken an oath to serve the Greek people by telling him the truth about your own behavior that is tatartoific. Tartourism!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u127	You're not elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u128	It's okay, the people are there judging me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u129	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u130	You who are elected show how you behave...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u131	Put your tone down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u132	I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u133	Minister, if you continue your speech, the dialogue will also end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u134	I'm not interrupted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u135	But keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u136	Put the tone down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u137	I don't understand. Shouldn't I reveal the taturism? That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u138	Easy, man.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u139	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Good! A little decency! Mr. Loverdos knows very well that lawyers are writing the books and not the ministers. I don't understand. He came in when Mr. Loverdos was Minister to a lawyer and told him what to write in lawsuit and appeal? Was there ever such a conversation? I honestly admit that neither the decision to judge it nor the appeal to draw it up has ever come. This is the pure truth and it is always the case in the Ministries, unless in the past - I ignore it - the ministers have compelled the appeals and done such jobs. As far as the law is concerned, this law that brought about a balance as I told you before is the law that actually creates conditions for the sustainability and improvement of benefits. We have done so on several occasions, without any judicial decisions being taken. We gave 354m euros to those who gave it to us, without any actions being taken. We gave it away. That's what we do today. Those who take the retrospectives today didn't sue. Some of them had done, not all of them did. When we say that we will give everyone what we really create as a margin of budgetary power, we do so today, we will do it tomorrow and we will do it all the next few years, because we can do it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're the ones who cut. We're building. You're tearing down, and that's what you're going to do. I'm talking with the wrath of every Greek now. That's Greek's wrath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, please, I would like a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u142	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I do not need the two minutes that the Rules of Procedure give me. That's enough for a minute. I gave you two specific data that you had to process correctly in your reply. First of all, I appreciate you taking the floor. But you've gotten over the issues I've raised you. I told you you didn't have insurance. With the changes that have been made, which will be made, which are in the minds of everyone, who is in the minds of counterpopulation and your own ministers, there is no insurance. That's what you don't answer. Secondly, with regard to this appeal by the Greek State, is it not the duty of the supervising Minister not to draw up appeals, not to draw up legal arguments, but, as regards the political order of any service's action, to have an image of what is said about him? The arguments of the State, here and here for the PSI and for the submarines, and for everything, are the arguments you have put forward. And you are now coming to prejudg with your Minister's appeal decisions on that point. You have an obligation - and here I stop - to tell us if you were wrong then or you are wrong now. When did you make a mistake? Do the right thing with the "alpha" and the "omega" you support, it doesn't come out of logic. Be honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would also like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u146	But, Minister, there will be a dialogue, because Mr. Lovers will answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u147	For just a minute, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u148	Good. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u149	It is an obligation to respond to this because I did not respond directly. I answered through what I developed. In no case does the revulsion of this part of the appeal express our views, that is, the memorials have entered well. I conclude by saying this: it must also be a test for the courts themselves, ladies and gentlemen, when they say something, document it, torture, and rethink it. After all, that is why there is the appeals and appeals procedure. That is why we will put this test to the judges, because I am very pleased, personally, with the Portuguese judges, who have judged the first memorandum and did not get it from Portugal. The Greek court that accepted this, let it think again and tell us at last what must be done for Greece. We want a way out for the country. We don't want the curse. We all have to think about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u150	Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the government finally applies irrevocably judicial decisions. I have sat down and listened to all the ministers of the government and I am emphasizing the three basic arguments they have put forward. First of all, there was political will. What is happening is a matter of political will. In order to be honest, political will on this matter alone had the Minister of National Defence for years. Why are you talking about political will? Last year why didn't you, since there was the financial margin? Why didn't you do it last year, since there was the financial margin? But you're telling her the truth in the draft law. I read from the report on the assessment of the consequences of regulation: 'The main aim is to harmonise with specific decisions of the supreme courts of the country'. It is therefore not a matter of political will - and I will come to it - that is a matter of timing that you have chosen to do so. It's not a political will. Finally, you harmonize yourself with specific judgments of the Supreme Court, as you yourself say in the draft law. I have heard a second argument: 'We are finally correcting the injustices of the past, bad laws,'spaces of shame', I have heard from the Minister now, the Minister who has voted for twenty-five cuts in pensions and twenty-nine tax increases. But I'm putting it aside. And he says: "It does not cover us as a government the specific abstraction of the appeal brought by the Greek State." This abhorrence doesn't sound to you, does it? I shall read you another abstention now on the same report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u152	Read any abstentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u153	Any abhorrence! I'm sorry now, but you're making fun of the Greek people. I'll repeat both of you then to inspire them. For the laws, including the law we are discussing today, Law No 4093/2012, the Greek State, by appealing - for the law we are discussing today - says that in this case "this law is identical to the interests of its citizens, since the possible total collapse of the Greek economy, due to the international economic crisis, would be accompanied by a complete collapse and the households of all Greek citizens". That's what you say about that law. Shall we go down? ‘With those data, those cuts, having been decided under the pressure of the above-mentioned exceptional circumstances and imposed by the legislator's assessment for the immediate treatment of the crisis, do not infringe the constitutional provisions cited above. Neither proportionality nor the core of the right to social security are insulted.’ These are the arguments you use in the government, appealing to the law we are discussing today. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard a third argument: 'Consequence', he says, 'the world of work. That is why today we are coming and bringing this amendment.' "Consequence" do you know what it means? In 2014 to vote for the other return of the retrospectives and the permanent increase in pay. But you, of SYRIZA, did not do so, did not vote for that provision. So the world of work is the same, the strains of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies are the same persons. Like then, therefore, you should have taken a stand today. The Civic Opposition will keep the same attitude then and today. That means respect for the world of work. So all three of your arguments prove that for once you are not telling the truth. But let us actually land with this forced compliance with judicial decisions, three points I want to make. The first point is as follows. Compliance is a long delay. For almost four years the government has refused to implement these decisions, despite its ongoing commitments since 2015. I would like to point out that in the words, it is a fact that the Minister of National Defence many times, and this year in the PPC, reiterated that "The subject of the retrospectives has been about a promise that we made with Alexis Tsipras since January 2015". And we're in November 2018! It is recalled that the previous New Democracy government had prevented in 2014, in the context of the country's budgetary possibilities to pay - note - not only 50% of the retrospectives, but also to restore, in a permanent manner and not one off, half of the losses that these branches had suffered in wages and pensions and to "false" wage promotions. So retrospectively and permanently restored losses since 2012. Then the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, did not vote for this provision. I repeat, you did not vote for this provision, despite the fact that I have heard members of the government invoking that provision today, like the Minister of Justice. On the contrary, what is going on today with this amendment? As its rapporteur states, "it is not affected by the amount of regular monthly earnings, as it has been in force since 2017..." - I would remind you that the ones since 2017 have been amended to the most unfavourable, downward, "not yet adjusted and increased pensions, as they have been in force since 2016." I would also remind you here: shortened, reduced pensions from 2016 onwards. In essence, therefore, there is no change in the current earnings of both workers and pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second point: we have reason to say that compliance is carried out in the election process. According to the government budget execution and accounts, the budgetary margins were higher in the previous two years. Overruns in budgetary targets were higher in the previous two years. So if you had the political will you should, as we have told you, have already implemented it, have implemented it in previous years. And yet, then and in 2016 and 2017 you chose not to comply with judicial decisions. It was a government choice. In order to appeal to the Prime Minister, instead of what he said yesterday, he did not have the political will. And he decides today, for voting reasons, in the face of the upcoming defeat of his government. Thirdly and lastly, compliance should be made with resources from other financial sources. The cover of the amount should have come from a high and sustainable economic growth and - as the Prime Minister said yesterday - 'the cut in waste and mismanagement and conflict with strife and corruption'. Unfortunately, however - and the evidence announced by the Ministry of Finance confirms them every month - for days SYRIZA and ANEL mismanagement of public bodies is dominated, corruption has increased and smuggling, for example, fuels and tobacco products has been strengthened. And the Undersecretary of Finance comes in and says 'but the implementation of the budget helps us, because we have the budgetary margin to give these resources'. I will submit to the Minutes the implementation of the state budget. Where does that come from, ladies and gentlemen? Is it from the corruption, the complication, of the state's massage? Let's see where it comes from. Public Investment Programme expenditure: under 60%. You keep below the objectives of the Public Investment Programme, which you yourself have submitted to the European Commission, that it will be the main financing instrument for growth in the future, 60% below the targets. That's 1.2 billion in eight months. In the eight months of 2018, I invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u154	Mr Stavoura, I would ask you very much to complete this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u155	I'll be done. Tax refunds: what the private person wants to return to him. How much under the target is he? It's 507 million. Internal posture of payments to primary expenditure: How much below the target? To health - and not just - 460 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u156	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u157	It's the text of the Ministry of Finance. I'm filing it in the Minutes. If you have any disagreement with the Treasury, find them. It's the official text of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u158	We have disagreement with where you found the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u159	So the State Secretary comes in and says: 'Good implementation of the budget gives us the opportunity to find 1 billion'. And the implementation of the budget is: below the EDP, below the tax refunds, below the primary expenditure. This is the correct implementation of the budget,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Stavura, you've been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u161	...allowing resources from the real economy and growth, as confirmed by the European Commission's report that has just been announced and casting the pace of development of 2019. In conclusion, in spite of the great delay, the New Democracy is voting for this amendment, as the President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis had committed to the representatives of these sectors. Because New Democracy is fortunately not SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. The President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the floor as Minister of National Defence. I heard Mr. Stakoura very carefully. He referred to the issue of military retrospectives. A little while ago, Mr. Kikilis at the Feast of the Air Force - I don't know where he caught it - made a tweet that we were stumbling - says the soldiers. Listen: who's mocking the soldiers will see it in their pocket in the next few days. Indeed, I would expect you, instead of finding a way to make an opposition, to come here in the Greek Parliament and to say that you too, the Civic Opposition, the New Democracy, but also the other parties, agree by giving them justice and giving them the money that the government stole from their pocket in 2012. Instead of coming and saying that for the Armed Forces there must be a national policy and that the country's largest armament programme is the Armed Forces, instead of saying that we are pulling out the Armed Forces political confrontation, you are coming here with a courageous determination to say to these people whose income you have limited to unconstitutionally, illegally and without any resistance, that they will now take them unjustly. Listen, Mr. Stakoura, I'm looking into your eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u164	Did I say that? Where did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u165	You said that they would get much less than what you predicted and say that the New Democracy gave 50% in the first year, even gave them the restorations of 50% of the loss of income and that this amendment does not fully restore them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no. I didn't say that. In fact, I said that we were voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u167	You didn't say that. Good. Well, Mr. Kikilis said so. I'm sorry. Since you didn't say so, Mr. Kikilias said so. In fact, for retrospectives, he writes: "After three years of delay, "cut" in the House. New Democracy had given 50% and entered the rest in the 2015 budget. You're making fun of the soldiers in their faces." I am pleased that you do not confirm Mr Kikilia and that you say that this is not the case, and I am particularly pleased that you are voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u168	I said it at the end, very clearly. And I said we're consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u169	I'm so glad. So, Mr. Kikilia's view as the national defense officer of the New Democracy is different from that of the representative. I am very pleased about that, because this is how the truth is restored. I would like to say, however, because this needs to be the case with all the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps: we are not just coming with the first decision made by the Prime Minister and the Government, after giving us the financial result, to give something back to the victims of the major crisis and first to be the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. Let me say that the 50% that was given at the time was not given in order to give the other 50% later, as some people were saying, but 50% was given to restore the 100% decision. In other words, what was said in the institutions, in the Minutes, is that 'we give you 50% and we spend'. So no one, like, 50% of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u170	If you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u171	It's all written in the negotiations. Don't question it. There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u172	If I may, because I participated...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u173	Can I tell you something? I am pleased - indeed - with Mr Stakoura about the position he is taking at the moment, because it is also important for these people to have a common view and to get the Armed Forces and the Security Body out of political controversy. I am pleased that these extremists who use false arguments are isolated from their own party. So we come here and say that this is being done in response to measures taken in both '15 and '16 and '17, including special wages, where the injustices in military wages have been restored by legislative initiatives of this government. I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister, for in fact the Greek Armed Forces are not part of the public sector. The Greek Armed Forces are exercised every day in war conditions, as we all recognise - I believe - in the Greek Parliament. A few months ago, the Greek nation proclaimed Baltadore and Basil, two young children, family with babies and yesterday Baltador's wife was at the celebration of the Air Force. It is of great importance that these people who, in a time of peace, lose their lives, families who say good-bye to their own people, have the support of the government, have the support of the people and - very important - also the support of all the political forces. These people don't go to work. They're going to defend the territorial sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. Their families don't know if their man comes back. I believe that even after three years of restoring the injustice against the Hellenic Armed Forces, it enables these people to continue their work with the same morality, with the same power and with the same confidence as the Greeks, and I hope that this strong force to prevent the Greek Armed Forces from helping the peaceful coexistence of the peoples. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I would like to mention from the Step of the House today, the Day of the Brigadiers' Day and the Air Force, that we have had a positive development. You know that there is a protocol on holidays to avoid tensions and violations. For the first time, we had a request for permission from Turkish aircraft to enter the FIR Athens. So if we proceed with the strength to prevent anyone from giving a positive look at the future, with the peaceful coexistence of the two peoples, we will be able to build the future of our country. Commanders of the Armed Forces, therefore, now having been restored to their terrible injustice in 2012, continue to carry out their mission. I repeat, in conclusion, that we already have an obligation and have other injustices in the area of the payroll of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, and I believe that the attitude of the Parliamentary Representative of Officers against the extremists who want to use the Armed Forces to create problems within the Greek Parliament is a attitude of responsibility that will enable the Armed Forces of the country to proceed with the support of the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u174	I have not yet spoken as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. Mr Stagioras has the floor, because Mr Stagioras was taken up as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u176	I'm not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u177	I mean, in relation to the Minister. Then we will give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, first of all I would like to reiterate the clear position of the New Democracy. The New Democracy what it did in 2014 will do today. What he did and then he'll do today. It will support the full restoration of the rewards. But what I said is that SYRIZA today doesn't do what he should do in the past. First observation. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased Because I participated in the negotiations, you will allow me to know better. In 2014, we were able to give 50% of the retrospectives, restore permanently - I stress this for the most part - half of the losses that these industries had suffered and which were foreseen in the future, depending on the financial possibilities, and the remaining 50%. Why wasn't 100% for that? Because everyone must know in this Chamber that when you take a budgetary decision, regardless of when it will be repaid, it will be registered the year you take that decision. In the context of the budgetary possibilities and choices of the then government, we have chosen 50% of retrospectives, 50% of wages, a reduction in excise duty on heating oil, a reduction in the tax on focusing, a reduction in insurance contributions and a reduction in the exceptional contribution of solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Minister wants to clarify something. Then I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Kikilia, then you'll take the floor. You're in charge, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u183	Do you have a problem, Minister, if I may take the floor? Because you mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Kikilia, would you like to say something before the Minister responds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u185	Let the Minister answer, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u186	If he has a view different from his principal representative, speak. If you disagree with Mr. Stakoura, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u187	Please, come on. The kids are watching too. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u188	Well, let's be absolutely clear: In the negotiations, Mr Staikoura, it is registered and we were brought back to us when we asked to implement the decision of the Council of State. It was that you will give 50% then, you will restore the other injustices - which have not been restored - and we will pay off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u189	Would you please submit this to us in writing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u190	That was the agreement, and that was the statements made by foreign officials when they came out of 'HILTON', as you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u191	Can you give them to us in writing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u192	Let's give it to you in writing, Mr. Stakoura. But listen to me, at the moment, saying that 50% does not fully restore the military is another and that is what you are saying, that this decision covers the lost incomes of the military and that the decision of the Council of State applies. Which I accept. It is therefore clear that we have the full restoration of the ranks of officers, of the military and of the police, and I do not know about the rest - that is, of the military, the police and the ports, I can tell you - from the decision of the Council of State and that is clear and there are no shadows. On the other hand, can I tell you something? In fifteen or twenty days, people will get them in their pocket. They'll know who's telling the truth here and who's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u195	What do you want, Mr. Kicilia? Staff? Why? He didn't remind you. He said you said that you said another position...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, it is a political controversy. The Minister spoke of my staff. I'm not a man of high tone. I think I want to respond to the same style.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u197	I read you the tweet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u198	And you did well, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u199	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u200	Listen, Minister, four years ago, in your election speech and on several occasions in your speech you broke your clothes, that the first law you will pass to the Greek Parliament will be the justice of the soldiers, otherwise you would not participate in this government. So the reality and the truth is that in these four years you are mocking the military, because you have repeatedly promised them that you will bring this law and make it a law of the state and you have not done so. You told them that you had entered the codes of the Treasury, you told them that you were committed on your part, you told them a lot of things and you came after consultation with the Prime Minister, shortly before the elections, whenever you decide to be - in May, in September, in February, in February, in February, in February, in February, in February, in no matter - and you give the retrospectives, and I'll explain why I'm saying that. Because if you had given it up, as you were bound, before the Katorugalou law, you understand very well that, first, we would talk about other sums. Secondly, why don't you give 2017, so you leave them in operation a year out of the guerrillas, two years out, and that is why all their associations are pleading. So if you do not want to be convinced of the Civic Opposition you should perhaps listen to all those who are concerned with the specific provision you put into the amendment, who disagree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u201	Okay. Now Mr. Kammenos has the floor to close the matter. And the tweets were clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u202	After the Katorugalou law, there was a special salary. So in the special payroll we had to fix everything we had to fix. It is a later law for the special salary of the Armed Forces, by the Katorugalou law. So, with the Special Payroll Act, the ones that the Katrugalou Act probably damaged wages and pensions, we corrected them to 100%. Incorporating allowances, the frontier is taken by people, we have even nights that have been discussed and you know that they have entered the special payroll. So there's no question of the Katrugalu law. Yeah, I said it would be the first law I'd back up. You know what? By decision of the Prime Minister, we are the small government partner and, to the honour of the Prime Minister, honoured us....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u203	Please, be quiet! Now what are we gonna do, recycling?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u204	...and he announced in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition that the first law to come into a budget that is not registered by the creditors, with a Greek free and a Greek liberated and with national sovereignty, is the law that brought today, namely the law on the restoration of retrospectives. The granting of national sovereignty and the handing over to the lenders were you with Mr Venizelos. You are responsible for the concession of the country's national sovereignty, and this government is the government that has taken the country out of the memorials, it is the government that is tabling the first budget that creditors do not do, and it is the first government that at last, of what you have deprived the Greek people and the sacrifices of the Greek people, can now be redistributed with justice to the people and not to the peoples, which most of them have begun to take to the point where justice leads them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the Private General School of Diamantopoulou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for about five minutes, not so much to talk about what the Minister of National Defence has said about the teams, of course not only the teams of the Ministry of National Defence but also the Ministry of Civil Protection and a series of other officials who are currently entitled to them. I would therefore like to take the floor, not to mention them, but above all to talk about the fact that we are here today in a symbolic sitting and voting, because it is the first of a series of positive legislative interventions to come, which we have the opportunity to move forward, precisely because the economy is recovering and precisely because we have come out of the memoranda, which is perhaps even today part of the Opposition. I understand your embarrassment. I would, however, feel that it is better today to vote positively and not to move the finger. Um, you ragged the wages, um, you never complied with the rulings of the courts, we're here the ones who come to restore injustice, get out from above! It can't be done! At the hanger's house, they say, they don't talk about rope. Your embarrassment, however, is understandable, because it is not a question - I would like to stress this - of the concrete intervention we are taking today. It is about the overall account deficit, your strategic deficit in which you have come. Why? Because you made a choice from the start. Mr. Kikilis told us we were coming here shortly before the elections. But based on your logic for three years just before the elections, we are. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] For the last three years, you have been asking for elections every day since you are now coming to talk to the constitutional reform process about the need to have stable electoral periods, without holidays. So your account lacks coherence. Your political account lacks coherence, lacks a strategic goal for the country's progress, and that is the most important one. Because to argue, to think that everything in this country has started since you left governance, that is, three and a half years ago and that there was no history, there was nothing before, charging everything to political opponents is easy. The difficult thing, however, is to have a vision, a plan, proposals, a account not only for today but also for tomorrow in this country. And you don't have any, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So today it is a great day for the Greek Parliament, because a series of positive legislative interventions reflect both the recovery of the economy and the fact that it has been carried out - we said it is of historic value and importance - the clear exit from the memoranda, which was typically held on 21 August. And, of course, this fact, in our assessment, marks the potential of the country to go through a new era. You said before that you did not comply with the decisions, because there was no financial possibility. You're right. We don't blame you for not wanting to comply. I would like to say to you - and I would like to stress this here - that there is no legal obligation, if you like, for governments to comply with these judicial decisions. It is, I would say, a moral obligation to the extent that the financial capacity is available. What are we doing right now? Because if there was a legal obligation, you and our previous governments would have done so too. Of course, it is possible for everyone and the courts to make decisions. That is the legal obligation. However, the decision of the Council of State does not create any regulatory obligation. You know that very well. Our moral obligation, however, to the extent that we have the budgetary capacity, is to start restoring the wounds and great injustices that you have created at the place in the first five years of the Memorandum Plunder. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And the question I would like to ask you all is why we have this possibility, and you did not. Why? You brought pension cuts fourteen times. You brought total austerity measures of EUR 64 billion. We brought fourteen times less. "The worst memorial ever arrived"! That's what you were telling us. We, however, managed to get the country out of the severe economic crisis, to recover the economy. You've never caught any surpluses. We have captured the objectives of the programme and the over-performance of the economy has enabled us to give social dividends to those most in need for three consecutive years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So the reason why we are able to make this political choice today and restore injustices - and this is also the specific amendment that we are going to vote on today and I imagine we will vote together - is precisely because these three years we have managed to rebuild the economy with structural reforms which have created the opportunity to relaunch the economy. At the same time, however, we stopped remulsion, corruption, tax evasion, tax evasion, housed public finances, had good public resources management, and we have achieved what everyone in Europe calls a'small miracle'! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And where two governments failed, which loaded multiple burdens on the Greek people, we succeed today, while you question us from the first moment and ask for elections from the first moment, predicting destruction and investing in risk and destruction. That's the reality. Of course, the crucial question is what you will do from now on without a destructive account. The answer is that perhaps some of you join in the account of paradox. Because I have seen in the past few days, in the absence of a catastrophe record, anticipated officers of Officerial Opposition, such as Mr Vorides, engaged in the narrative of paralogy. I would suggest that he also receive a television show, such as Mr Georgiadis, along with the other graphically speaking Nefelims, about the Elle generation and say that SYRIZA and ANEL will be abolished on Christmas and Orthodoxy celebrations. I would suggest that you do that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u207	Mrs. Vulture, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u208	Mrs. Vulge, you're a little restless. It's understandable to be restless. Because you don't just solidate a account. With what your executives say, solidify and elementary seriousness. You're getting handwriting. And the Greek people see you and judge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u209	Don't cause answers, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u210	So you told us, ladies and gentlemen, that we will not be able to close the evaluations. You told us that the famous cutter would be activated. You told us we'd cut off the pensions. You also told us that we would not leave the third memorandum and that we have signed a fourth memorandum and bring it here, which will be even harder. Well, we, too, decided today to start bringing one to the National Representation the measures of the Fourth Memorandum, which I dedicate to Mr Mitsotakis and to the MPs of Officerial Response! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] One in one in the fourth memorandum. The first measure of the Fourth Memorandum is the payment of retrospectives to agents, doctors, academics and other professional and professional groups. Other measures of the Fourth Memorandum are coming. It's all I announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Now that his catastrophe has failed to cut off pensions, you are questioning that the measures I have announced will be implemented. Hey, you'll have that glass too! One - one of these measures will come and will be voted out and you will say "Yes to everything", as you said five years "Yes to everything" to the toughest measures of the memoranda that have ever passed! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So it will come here next time and we will vote for the reduction of insurance contributions for freelance professionals, the abolition of trade tax for farmers, the subsidisation of insurance contributions for young people, the reduction of HPAI in mid-to-30% for public households in 2019 and mid-30% to 50% in 2020. You'll vote for that, too. And of course, I imagine that with a heavy heart you will soon be voting on not to cut pensions for our pensioners! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have succeeded in supporting them despite the great difficulties, despite the fact that some in Europe have said that we do not have to support pensioners - because they have a good time! - and we must give our attention elsewhere and create a different policy mix, so that it is more investment-friendly! That's what we were told. But we know very well that to be able to raise the economy up, you must be able to keep the society upright. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That was the key combination in all the efforts we have made over the past period. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close up and deal with something else. There is a part of anti-pollution officials who are undestructive, as I said before, recycles this paradox. But there is another part approved by the other media that they say is also dangerous. What do they say we're doing today? They say that we do not restore injustices, just like you just admitted, but that we come and share money, we waste, we make benefits, we waste right and left and we put the Greek economy at risk. No waste we do, no waste! It was a wasteful of corruption that took place in health, medicine, armaments and led us to bankruptcy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] What we are doing now is measure to measure the financial potential of the Greek economy to the euro and with complete security to create a financial space to give priority to those who need it, but having ensure that we catch the budgetary targets, having ensured that this credibility we restored at European and international level, this possibility of being able to speak today and take us seriously, we are not going to break it down and break it down, because we have built it up with trouble. And it is thanks to what we can do today for the benefit of society as a whole, such as the non-reduction of pensions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So we pulled the country out of the memos. We have reached a sustainable solution to public debt. We have restored fiscal stability by ending at the time of the deficits. The country, almost a decade later, runs at growth and not recession. We have restored and continue to restore legality and regularity in industrial relations. In three years we have reduced unemployment by eight percentage points. Today he records 18.9%, while in 2014 he was 27%. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These are the works they talk about and projects that have to do with the daily lives of the citizen. They are not words of air, they are works, they are deeds, as will the restoration of major injustices very soon. Because we have a plan, because we are persistent, because we have a vision to change Greece and we will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Mandas has asked for the floor. Mr. Mada, can we have a dialogue? Shall we break the parliamentary order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u213	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u215	Mr Amyras, I would like Mr Javarras to be preceded by a parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u216	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt left at all. Today, Parliament takes a special symbolic function: it is part of and is involved in the pre-election process which, from yesterday, probably most of the day before yesterday, was launched by the Prime Minister when he announced this very important, historic agreement with the Archbishop.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u219	Madam President, a little quiet. What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u220	Please, there's a speaker in Stepma. Please, anyone who wants to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Besides, it's not Clausmenius, it's Syria's ugly. I would therefore like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the democracy that we are debating here today the amendment you have brought to democracy, which today has its heart, where popular sovereignty is exercised, where the heart of the Parliamentary Representation is genuinely and symbolically beaten, as the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament are organized in it, I repeat, the democracy is not the right for you to add, with your election campaigns and other procedures and ways of giving political speech and other forms of directions than those laid down in the rules. Because, yes, this democracy which the Constitution enshrines and constitutes its charter is liberal, but in this democracy there is no room for this kind of passiveness that we have seen today. This pre-election period, which has been set on the basis of the amendment you have put forward and with which you are restoring an injustice, which, on the basis of the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Courts, has been imposed on you, is this one you cannot add to the electoral decoration of this Chamber, without causing deep, heavy, but I hope not the democratic institutions any harm. I am very sorry that I have heard the Prime Minister himself here today, the Prime Minister of the country, the one who has the direct democratic legitimacy in the last elections to govern this country, to ignore that the obligation to comply with the judgments of the courts is not of a legal nature, but of a moral nature. Because, in the opinion and perception of the Prime Minister, it seems to be up to the government to make its own decision, whether to apply or to violate the rulings of the Supreme Courts, when it declares them to be unconstitutional, specific provisions of the laws passed by the House. Prime Minister, indeed the government's obligation to apply the laws is legal, i.e. it is primarily an obligation arising from the application of the Constitution, for which you once said here as Chief of Official Representation that you are each of his words. Well, it seems that it slowly fades this text in your memory and especially in your conscience, because I honestly did not expect to hear from you, I repeat, that you are every word from the Constitution and every word from the immunity of democracy against abuses of executive power, as they are found by the lower courts, to tell us today that you have a moral obligation. So, in this line you gave today, it makes sense that this whole of the ministers who came here today have obeyed, to tell us that they do it from their good heart and give the uniforms and other state officials, where the highest courts have judged the unconstitutionality of the laws with which their salaries and pensions have been cut, to them, so you do it from a good heart, from generosity and, above all, because you have budgetary margins. So you want to say that you would have done so if you hadn't exaggerated the Greek population, had you not declared a position of payments, which the whole society is struggling with today? At least, the society of professionals, of the wealth producing people is narrowing, because you are not returning due claims, due requirements, to create just this surplus. As you have already heard from Mr Stakoura, you have managed to create an overcrowding financial area, reducing by 60% or better the public investment budget by 60%. Well, would you like congratulations on that? Do you want a public praise for all this? But you should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u222	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u223	However, I believe that what you believe less than anything else in our democracy, namely, its character as representative, is now becoming the place of your protection. Because today, in fact, these words you said, by addressing the Greek Parliament, if you were able to address them to the people at an outdoor gathering, what you would receive would be disapproval. So what you cannot say, in the face of the people, is that you have no right to say it in this Chamber too, because you are doing nothing but beneath the top-level procedure that is being carried out here and that is popular sovereignty. However, I would also like to point out - and to say this to Mr Kammenos - that today, with this amendment, you are doing nothing but continue the way the Samara - Venizelos government has started. Because the first, fundamental, initial satisfaction and adaptation and compliance with the decisions of the Council of State, stated in the explanatory statement of the amendment, namely the first three that came out in 2014, was the amendment tabled in 2014 and which you refused to vote on. So who are you addressing and saying that it is your sensitivity that makes you today to give those categories of state officials who are entitled to take? Obviously, he is the stalker who has stung you for the great election march you are starting from today, as the Prime Minister said, towards occupying the naked authority. Because democratic power will never give you the Greek people. And keep that in mind. The Greek people in elections will never give you the right to again rule. Because what you leave behind is ruins. What you leave behind is people in despair. What you leave behind is promises, which you disproved in the most tragic way, when you promised yourself at the time that you would open a new path in the history of Greece and that this road would be far from the memoranda, away from the limitations and away from the executions of the lenders, whom, if you remember, you had also called them validators. But don't you tell me, from the eight years that the memos have been holding up to this day, do you not realize that the four are you who govern this place and only the two years have New Democracy ruled? Are you not aware that for four years you have done nothing but rule in the most heated memorial terms in this country, even having received praise and approval from America and NATO and from the summits with which you are in touch with the European Union? Aren't you aware that if there's one reason why they want you to be that now these turmoils you've been mobilizing and energizing every day out here in the Constitution, as atrocious and angry citizens against Samaras and Venizelos, now have you appointed them? Because sixty thousand are the contracts you have concluded. I am referring to these contracts that are made, on the basis of your ability, under fixed-term contracts, to serve various secondary needs to the Greek State. Don't you even remember that? Well, then, the country is never going to come to normality, if you do not decide to obtain the reasoning that is imposed, but also the sense of what is needed, to govern at least by democratic rules in that country. It is indeed a problem. You are bringing us into an electoral dispute, without any rules, without barriers, without limits, and above all from the organised institutions and the coordinates and functions provided for in the Constitution, the Rules of Parliament and the other laws, for their operation. That is why you have a great responsibility. However, I would now like to refer to and you will allow me, Madam President, to what happened the day before yesterday. The Prime Minister of the country announced that in a secret agreement which he negotiated for three months with the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, they reached an agreement of historic importance that solves the chronic problems that exist between the Greek state and the Church of Greece. And the question is this: Since when have you been informed, especially that most of you say atheists and non-members of the Church, that there are serious problems between the Greek state and the Greek Church? And the main concern of everyone is that all of you who, based on your "anti-climate" ostrich, disciplined the Greek people to turn against the clergy, because you said that the Greek State cannot pay the wages of priests and other clergymen, have been forced, I don't know how. It seems this secretly negotiated agreement reached the point to give you light and indeed to recognize that the wages of their clergy are paid by the Greek State in fulfillment of a commitment undertaken in 1939 to the Church of Greece when it expropriated church property without equal or at all in return. So, since you are obliged and I regret that you have done so, you have to pay these salaries, because in this agreement all you do is change the status of clergymen in terms of status, that is, in terms of the status of civil servant who so far have been in the public service because the law says so and why the Constitution also provides for it. So the only thing that can be answered here is that you have also used the well-being of the Archbishop of Athens and the Greeks in order to achieve the objective which the government representative had yesterday revealed to him, to save, namely, by changing this regime ten thousand posts of civil servants and announcing yesterday that you are on the way to recruitment, which is a long-standing one, which we will promise for a long time to have victims and hostages almost all the Greek people, just like the ones that Mr Gavroglou has told us from this step just now, when we are applauding here by our colleagues, he said that we are going to recruit tens of thousands of teachers. But who are you telling all this to? Four years now you've been ruling. What have you done with all this to start a new phase in the governance of this place today? To tell us that from today onwards until the election, will you bring an amendment every day? Because, of course, here is the directory of wickedness in the 'wizard', which is called the Prime Minister, because only in them - for evil, as Mr Trump said - can be enchanted. For the sake of good, he's incapable of doing anything. That's what we've already figured out. So this will be our destiny in this Chamber today. Every day fifteen Ministers will come here to give with a celebrity look at the tone of election euphoria you are looking for to live and try, so that you can have the strengths after here to go out into the countryside and face the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u224	Whatever they do, they don't get away with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u225	Go to the county and say these. Go here to the Constitution and make open gatherings and say all this, see how much they stand and how much they can determine your relationship with the beautiful one you're trying to convince us that you have with the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u227	I'm closing, Mr. President. Afraid and fear too. That's why you're here today and you've taken out all the beauty you're feeling when you're all here together. One should applaud the other, others to disapprove the Vice-Presidents, because that is where you have arrived. You said, Mr Secretary-General, 'How do you speak'. So, you even have the word of counterpopulation bothering you? But that's the beginning of a course leading to totalitarianism. That's what Mussolini did. The very first legislative act of Mussolini, when he took the way he took the Prime Minister in Italy in 1926, was to abolish the MPs of counterpopulation. Is that where you drive the place?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u228	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u229	You should finally consider your responsibilities and, from there on, come here and discuss what you want. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u231	And not to answer Mr. Javarra. It's not worth it. It's not worth answering to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u232	No, that's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u233	Madam President, please. That's no longer enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u234	Please don't complain. And now I have to say about Mussolini. Please. That's over. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u235	When he paraphrases like that, I say. It's so understandable what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u236	Isn't it worth it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u237	Yeah, it's not worth it, because it would make sense, if I had to interpret. I didn't have to interpret. In that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u238	Isn't it worth answering here who's not elected? Does he find the elected ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u239	Read in the Minutes what I said. In that sense. It is not worth explaining, because you will read in the Minutes what I said and you will understand it. She tells me that I'm Mussolini and that crap...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u240	Mrs Vulture, you have become a constant fuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u241	It is your fault, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u242	It's my fault? You're the one who told a journalist you left and never step on the ERT again. Please. I am not going to resolve these issues now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u243	You don't have the right to speak from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u244	Please. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u245	I'll get you out, Mrs. Vulture. I'll do it once. Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u246	I'll make you reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u247	That's what I'm waiting for. Let's see! Make us reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u248	Will you say about me from the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u249	Read the Minutes to understand what I said and not to tell me peculiar qualities that are fascist to me. Did you hear that? Because everything is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Petropoulou, don't answer. That is what Mrs Buddhism wants to do with dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u251	I'm holding this back. With regard to legislative improvements, I have no change in the content of the provisions. It is simply because of the amendments to another provision. So that is what it says only, they are, in fact, legal. For Articles 1 to 8, which are in the provisions introduced for the introduction of the Directive into national law and which stipulates that they shall apply from 21 May 2018, the entry into force shall indeed remain in force. The other amendments, those tabled, are starting to apply from the publication of the law. In the same way, the order of certain provisions changes in the amendments because they were incorporated...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u252	What's that about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u253	They are concerned with the number of articles, as they now rank because of the amendments. It doesn't change anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u255	What do you want, Mr. Javarra? Please join us. We have not entered the speakers here. Respect the few Members of Parliament who have been written.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u256	I must respect myself and the office I serve. I need a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u257	About what? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Undersecretary said it wasn't worth answering what I said. It's his opinion. However, what he should know is that what he deserves and how much he does not judge, but those who listen to him. And, of course, those who really should judge who tells us things worthwhile will be the ones to whom our word is directed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u259	That's familiar.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u260	So my word, please, is not addressed to the State Secretary, because, as the Rules of Parliament say, anyone who speaks from the Step of this House - and you know that very well - is addressed to this House. So the fact that you have allowed the Deputy Secretary of State to personally address me downstream of the Step and say that he is not worth answering me, that is exactly what I said to you, the Rules of Procedure and exposes an elected representative of the people who, at the moment, even replaces the Chief of Officerial Opposition, has, in other words, a particularly increased institutional, parliamentary role. You should not leave him unanswered, and you should tell him that he who is not elected, the one who comes here and is hosted in Parliament should finally understand that this space is a Parliament for Members and is not a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u261	All right, Mr. Javarra. I thought you wanted to answer, so we could finally get into the speaker's circle. Emotionally - the order has changed - I will give the floor first to Mr Georganta, then Mr Papaliou and then Mr Papapas will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u263	Then you'll talk. They've all spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u264	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u265	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u266	Excuse me, Madam President, I shall speak on a point of order. For over an hour and a half I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. When I stated my intention to be present, no other parliamentary representatives other than Mr Loverdos had said. So, for an hour and a half now, the Bureau has been taking me further, and I ask, how does it define who will speak from the parliamentary representatives first or then? Whoever declares the last moment and on the basis of the power of his party? Or on the basis of the order of priority, as we have stated since the beginning of the meeting? Please, Madam President, I am here for two hours. I left the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u267	Look, I came to the Bureau now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u268	I agree, but I am two hours and I left the Committee on the Environment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u269	Yes, all right, Mr. Amyras, there were the speakers at the time you were asking for the floor. It's got to be over by the speakers. You know that. One has spoken, and now Mr. Javarras has just spoken. They have not spoken to other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u270	The speakers are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u271	That's what I'm saying. So they couldn't give you the floor before. The circle of speakers has now begun with parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u272	But how did you give Mr. Loverdo the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u273	Now, then, you'll get your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u274	But how was the speech given to Mr. Loverdos who is a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u275	Ask the gentleman who was in the Bureau. Now what can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u276	Yes, but there's always a Bureau. Excuse me, Mr. Georganta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u277	Well, either hierarchically do it or not, you have to wait a bit. Be patient!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u278	No, the Bureau should follow the order. That's what he has to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u279	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. I won't use all my time. I want to say a few specific things. And I thank the colleagues who gave me their turn. I really thought that the government's populism would find a limit, find some point at which it will stop. Today we have experienced another episode of this populism, which I think goes beyond any previous practice. In order to understand the world that listens to us today, it was this government that came, as it had to comply with the operative court rulings, and listen to what it tried to alter and what image it was trying to give. They all know very well that in November 2014 the previous Antonis Samaras government voted in Parliament on the repayment of the debts - because this is the right expression, not retrospectively - to adjust the wages and pensions and 50% of those - which had to be voted on - to be attributed to the beneficiaries. This was done in November 2014 and that government complied within four months of the adoption of the relevant decisions, i.e. immediately. This government comes to give the remaining 50% four years later. Four years later, let me repeat it! Four months have taken the Antonis Samaras government to give 50%, four years, to give the remaining 50%. But listen now: The lie doesn't stop there, it's all the time. Firstly, most government officials have today spoken of a political choice for this action. What is the political choice? Is there no obligation to comply with the judgments of the courts? Even the Prime Minister himself left gaps in it. Is it possible for the judgments of the courts - whether they like them or not - not to be respected? They must be respected. Of course, it can be understood that payment may take some time in relation to the financial area, but they are fully respected. It does not come from a political choice today, it comes from an obligation. Thirdly, the previous government, when it gave 50%, gave it while it was within Memorandum obligations. You understand how serious and important this is. The current government does not have this difficulty. Fourthly, the explanatory statement to the amendment says something unheard of, and populism shows, but also continues to be a mockery. By taking into account the periods for which this adjustment takes place, it considers that all injustices either in the pension or in the salary account have been restored by the laws of 2016 and 2017 of the present Government. Have you restored constitutionality, law and order, when we know very well that there are conferences in the Council of State, that already some of your own legislation has been considered unconstitutional, and we are obviously waiting for your own legislation to be overturned in the next few years? So let's not rush. And of course, let us not challenge saying that you have restored constitutionality and order with your own legislation. There was an obligation to comply with judicial decisions. The New Democracy, as it was then honestly brought to Parliament, supported it and voted for it, is doing so today. Do you know where SYRIZA was in November 2014? In 'the present'. Today some of his executives have said that the fight has now been vindicated since 2014. In order to vindicate the fight they had to be practical participants in that vote ever since. But then they chose to use some "good" expressions that I found from the Minutes. Minister of the present government at the time said: "These are cargos. It's a joke. With the thousands you have taken an amendment, while it was your duty to comply with the judgments. Stop election mockery and mockery." These were said in November 2014 those who are today ministers of this government. And that's when they said "they're here."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u281	Why don't you say his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u282	Mrs. Kundura. I am presenting in the Minutes the relevant passage with those words. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ms. Kundura was talking about mocking and carnivores. To end all this theatre of irrationalism and populism: this House is coming in line with judicial decisions, it is doing its duty towards these people. No political choice, no reward. Of course, we are here to correct errors, to restore injustices, which the judiciary points out to us here. The restoration of injustice is not a political choice here. It's an obligation. We accepted this obligation, executed it and completed it in 2014. Today we come to make a positive contribution to this without much talk and no mockery. For the mockeries I want to say one last word and close: When the insurance was passed, the famous Katorugalou law, I remember, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone here was pleased with an excellent law which solved all the matters of insurance and which had no pension cut. Today you know why you applauded the Prime Minister? Because he told you that this good Katorugalou law, which was passed by you two years ago and you were applauding when it was voted, will fortunately not be implemented. That is what you welcomed today, that the good law of Katrugalo, which was passed by you in 2016, will fortunately not be implemented. She's got her limits too! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that the previous speaker from the New Democracy has recognised that the country is out of the question. It is a position that Qualified Opposition and some other political forces so far feel that it is not the case. It's something and that, since you're starting, gentlemen of Officership, to be compatible with reality. And the reality is, today, the country is out of memoranda after very great efforts made by the current government. Let's come to the bill now. The proposed provisions harmonise Greek legislation with Community law and integrate it into Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16-4/2014 on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers in Member States by improving, acquiring and maintaining supplementary pension rights. The provisions of the Directive contained in the bill apply to workers who are members of supplementary pension schemes who, on the expiry of the employment relationship, are moved to other Member States or who change employment within Greece. This regulation is very important for workers who change employment within Greece. The aim of the Directive is to facilitate the exercise of the right of workers to freedom of movement in the Member States by reducing the obstacles created by certain rules on supplementary pension schemes linked to the employment relationship. These obstacles concern the conditions for obtaining pension rights and the conditions for maintaining inactive pension rights. Furthermore, the Directive aims to promote information given to workers on the consequences of mobility on supplementary pension rights. The proposed provisions facilitate not only the mobility of workers from one Member State to another, thus improving the conditions for their supplementary pension rights but also facilitating occupational mobility within the country, thereby improving the flexibility and efficiency of the labour market in the country for the benefit of workers and improving the conditions for the acquisition and maintenance of their supplementary pension rights. The provisions of the Directive exclude the social security schemes covered by Regulation 883/2004, the supplementary pension schemes that have been closed, the insurance schemes in the event of insolvency, the flat-rate payment of the employer to the worker, which is made at the end of the employment relationship and which is not considered an additional pension, and the provisions of the Directive do not apply to the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pensions for workers within a single Member State. They also do not apply to disability benefits or survivors associated with supplementary pension schemes. Let us now come to the amendment that has been a lot of talk about. The amendment provides for the one-off payment of retrospectives to the members and pensioners of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, to public health doctors, to the members of the University LAGs, TEIs, etc. Of course, decisions of the Council of State have been taken before. Let us recall, however, certain elements of the history of this amendment, which were omitted by the spokesmen of the Civilian Opposition and the rapporteur of the New Democracy. This has also been done in order to denounce the introduction of rules. There are three elements: The first is Law 4093/2012, where, following other, repeated reductions - reductions in pay reductions in special wages paid and pensioners with special wages. Subsequently - and this has been omitted - judgments of the Supreme Courts have been delivered, whereby this regulation of Law 4093/2012 was considered unconstitutional. Rehabilitation by the government at the time was made with the payment of half the retrospectives. The rest of the half was therefore missing. Therefore, since the previous colleague of the New Democracy has already acknowledged that we are entering the memorial era, this amendment is indeed the first positive financial measure to be voted on in Parliament after the end of the memorandums, which concerns the restoration of injustice suffered by these categories of officials. Of course, this is a matter of political will, beyond compliance with court rulings, which have often not been observed - and have not been observed here - by the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK is indeed a matter of political will. Because it must be said that the country, coming back to normality, must - and this is what the current government is doing - gradually lifts injustices, restores balance and creates the framework for promoting development and social justice policies. Of course, the return to normality does not mean a reproduction of the model of economic growth of the past that led to the country "on the rocks", bankruptcy, but the creation of a new, productive model based on extroversion, innovative entrepreneurship, stable and well-paid jobs and the socially fair distribution of the wealth produced. That is our objective and in this context we will proceed so that the Greek citizens experience this different policy, which we have drawn up, planned, planned and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u285	Thank you. Mr. Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u286	Referring to the draft legislation under discussion, namely the incorporation into Greek legislation of a directive of the European Parliament, I would like to mention briefly, introductory terms, a matter of topicality - major politically and nationally, and to convey the complaints of our fellow citizens, North-East, who are denouncing some things, but not only because of the male murder on behalf of the Prime Minister of Albania himself, the psychopathic Eddie Rama. And don't hurry to interrupt me. I call him 'psychopath', because this is what Albanian newspapers, who publish their documentaries of hospitality, which are given the opinion of 'aggressive psychopathy'. I am presenting for the Minutes the relevant document, as well as the relevant source, for the Greek people to know who the Greek Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs is speaking, and I am pleased. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Northcontinents therefore call these and denounce them not only because of the male murder but also because of their long-standing abandonment from the national centre. The complaints registered - and in Greek media - say that the Minister of Culture, Mrs Zorba, at the time of the event, knew that a business was under way against Kostas. And if they didn't tell her in time, those who came from the Consulate of the Silvrokastron knew it. "Instead of acting, they left bread and left us." To add the complaint of a tragic person, the happy mother, Kostas Katsifa's mother, who in her pain, with bitterness and complaint said that no governmental agent... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, gentlemen. The conversation at the cafeteria. Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u287	Everybody's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u288	Everyone's talking, but this isn't a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u289	They don't sound. Come on, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u290	However, it sounds from me, Madam President. They don't respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker cannot. Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u292	They don't respect. This is how the Neo-Democrats and Civic Opposition have learned to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u293	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u294	What are you doing to me, Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u295	Did you say anything about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u296	Yeah, you don't respect anything. You don't respect the speaker and make gestures to me. Whacks...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u297	You'll talk to me in the plural.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Javarra, has that hurt you? Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u299	Golden to me, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u300	Is that what you're hurting? Mr. Javarra? The "main" refers to you elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u301	Golden to me, no. Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Pappa, whoever listens to you. You cannot force others to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u303	It seems your attitude and your disrespect to both the House and the speaker. I wouldn't expect anything better than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u304	To you in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u305	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u306	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u307	You in particular, because you don't deserve my respect, and I show you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u308	Javarra, come on, boy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u309	Please. Don't raise the tension for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u310	I want to denounce and convey the words of the happy mother who said that no government agent called her to say a few words of comfort to her, to say a few words of support to her. And not only government, but also a state factor. At the time of the crisis both, and the Government and the President of the Republic, were absent. And in every crisis! Same happened in Matty. It did not take the least of the circumstances Prokopis Pavlopoulos, President of the Republic, a simple phone number for the mother of Constantine Katsifa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Poppa, take care of your expressions. I won't interrupt every three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u312	I should like to mention here, Madam President, the statement by the father of the Northcontinental Greek hero. Father Katsifas said: “The death of my child can and will stand him. Mr. Friend's statements will not be possible. I wonder how someone called the Northern Continent “South Albania”!”. Nothing else could be expected of those who hate the Greek flag who fascistly condemn the initiative of unscrupulous students and brave Greeks to sing "Macedonia unheard" in the parade of October 28, the children of the high school of Gerakas. I'm afraid - I'm sure - that the government will give in to the demands of the sceptic partner, your partner in NATO, the Minister of Defence of the neighbouring state structure and forbid the Greeks to say "Macedonia is Greek". You did so on the same day that the Albanian police, at the request of a prime minister, murdered Constantine Katsifa. I denounce that, on the order of the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état, it was banned by imprisonment and imprisonment at the military barracks to sing this piracy, namely the "Macedonian renowned". In the ban on "Macedonia unheard" and on the banned "I have a sister, the northern continent", the Greek people's answer is: "No, Macedonia unhearder" was born in battle and will die..." - if she dies, who will not die - "...in war". The Greekity of our Macedonia, the Greekity of Northern Epirus, are not haggled in talks, either with signatures, or with betrayal agreements. The Greekity and freedom of our Macedonia and of the Asylum Northern Epirus are unnegotiable and have been sealed with the blood of thousands of Greeks in all historical periods. To conclude my report, which could only be a kind of memorial to the hero Constantine Katsifa, I would like to denounce the representatives of the so-called 'democratic arch', who refused the proposal of the Golden Dawn to keep a thin silence, which was made by competitor Helen Zarulia one day after the hero was killed on 29 October. And today, on the day of the funeral, at the time of the funeral - because at the moment the hero Konstantinos Katsifas is being buried at the Bulgarians - they again refuse this symbolic act, the minimum tribute that the Greek Parliament could pay to the tragic moments that the Northern Epirus is currently experiencing. You should feel like that! And the Greek people believe that. That is what the vast majority believes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u313	Come on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u314	Hero, Constantine Katsifa, the People's Nationalist Movement has the deep faith that your sacrifice will not be lost. He's gonna pluck the tree of freedom he watered your blood too. Constantine Katsifa, you return today to the patron Greek land as a hero, with an open coffin, dressed in the variant and wrapped with the blue-white one you defended with your own life. Leventis Epirus, you alone raised Greece all to remember our indebted country. Kostas Katsifa, your blood signature. North Continent, land Greek. Have a good hero journey, you brave compatriot. I conclude, Madam President, by saying: 'Because of the masonexia I have a ban on exiting the country, as well as the Secretary General Nikos Michaloliakos and most Members of the Golden Dawn - I have an extra privilege and honour, I would say, to be 'persona non grata' in Albania - I am not attending the exile sequence and farewell, Kosta Katsifa...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u315	Come on, Mr. Pappa, please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u316	I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u317	My tolerance has reached its limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u318	...as should be the case for heroes and braves with the continental song of our country: "Delvino and Tsamouria, Delvino and Saints Saranda, we will take you forever. Delvino and Tepelini again Greek will be generally".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u319	Whoa, whoa, whoa! Mr Pappas, on the other hand, I would like to say the following: the Rules of Procedure say that you will be speaking on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u320	You let Javarra speak for 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u321	Democracy is tolerant, Mr Pappa, but we also have our limits. We're not going back to the previous century with you and the crap you're talking about. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u322	Shame on you! Is that bullshit about us? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u323	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u324	Because it's all creepy. They are not heard in the Greek Parliament! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u325	Aren't you ashamed? Rubbish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u326	All right, the Chief said it. Go now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u327	Is that bullshit all we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u328	Sure. You want me to say they're fascist? Fascist crap!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u329	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u330	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u331	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u332	To the Northcontinents to say that, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u333	Okay. The Chief is gone. Isn't that what you always do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u334	Your position doesn't allow you to be ironic. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u335	Make me reproach you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u336	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u337	Come on! Do you want me to get you out? You're blocking the speaker. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u338	You won't be here for a long time! The Greek people will throw you out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u339	Yeah, yeah. We'll wait for you! The party's parliamentary representative has the floor, Mr. Amyras, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know if we all got a hammer of what happened in here, but today, officially, the election period for the country began. Twelve Ministers, the quasi-President of the Government, Mr Kammenos and the Prime Minister, have taken the floor on an amendment to a directive. Under normal circumstances we all know that such bills come the accelerating Minister and the MPs who deal with the matter. But Mr. Tsipras said he had some serious issues to report to us. And for the first time, I would say that Mr. Tsipras - I don't know if you took it too - named his memorandum by his name. In other words, he said, "Our Memorandum had less burdens". And I say: 'I have at last heard Mr Tsipras admit that he has brought a memorandum to the country.' What did Mr. Tsipras also say to us? That the Memorandum Tsipras - Kammenos had less burdens than before. And then, simple logic leads you to conclude that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos did not bear the burdens of the previous memoranda. They incorporated them, made them their land and proceeded to new charges, with their own memorandum. That's what simple logic says, that's what the Greek language says. However, Mr Tsipras told us that retrospectives to the uniforms, university and ESS doctors are given because the economy has stabilised and developed. Where did we see that? Where did the Prime Minister see it? In 2015 we had a recession, in 2016 we had a recession, in 2017 we had the lowest growth in the Eurozone and in 2018 we have lost the target again in relation to the growth rate that the country should have. I also remind you that the country is off the market. It cannot be borrowed because interest rates just listen to 'Greece' and 'Greek economy'. I also remind you that the country has Capital Controls. Is that economic stability and growth? May I also remind you that with the Cipra Memorandum, the duty-free was reduced? Is it going to be reduced next year, so those who get five hundred euros a month will have to pay tax a month a month a month? May I remind you, too, of the decline in unemployment reported by the Prime Minister? Of course, unemployment has fallen, but this government, the SYRIZANELs, has created the EUR 425 generation. You, who were 'up on the tiles' for the generation of 700 euros, brought and established with the elastic forms of work and the working middle ages, which unfortunately shoved the generation of 425 euros. You are also telling us that the Prime Minister has announced that he will reduce insurance contributions, which his government itself has increased. He proudly told us that the pension cuts that his own government twice voted would probably not apply. Twice you, the SYRIZANEL MPs, one in the medium term and one in five months ago, in June, voted to reduce pensions from 1 January, and now you are coming as triumphers to tell us that you will probably not reduce them. Did you not increase VAT to thousands of products from 13% to 23% and then to 24%? Have you not made the lives of all the Greeks and especially the weaker ones, those who are now economically weak, when you increased their price to bread, coffee, milk, a thousand other two products? The prices of over three and a half thousand products have risen. The products were made more expensive than the increase in VAT brought by the SYRIZA Government. The Prime Minister also said that he will be reducing him by 10%. Until you reduce it by 10%, you do not go to Kallithea, dear Minister, in refugee homes, built in the 1930s, and the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, where the ENVY came to an increased degree, why - says - has it gained greater value because of the objective values that the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation brought them up? Should I also remind you of something about the superstition? The superstition, which is in fact run by foreigners, has as a mission, with the signature of the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, to sell what the properties of the Greek State want for the next 99 years, so that it can get 50% of the revenues of the excess, that is, the foreigners, to pay the loans they have given us. But the other 50% again, the strangers will handle it, throwing this money into one of the next properties they want to sell in order to get more value. So it is a good thing that Mr. Tsipras has finally talked about his memorandum, because he has so far used the word'stability programmes' and usually says 'we have removed the country from the memoranda'. Then why did you put the country in the memorials, in your memorial? Let's go down. I would like to say, however, that there must also be a parliamentary ethics. When twelve ministers come here, the two co-governments of Tsipras, Kammenos and speak in the Chamber on this amendment to return the retrospectives, it should at least be possible from the Bureau to inform the other parties that there will be a debate at the level of Prime Minister or at any rate not only the government ministers and MPs in turn to speak. I've been here since morning, has it been about three o'clock and have we talked from the opposition about how many people? Three, four? Well, so there's parliamentary ethics, please. I come to the argument. The word of the year, it seems, is the magic word we hear everywhere. It is clear from the drafting of the amendment that the officials, universities and doctors of the National Health System are being cut back on the basis of a judicial decision. Retrospectives take the form of a single amount, without being accompanied by an increase in wages, while the period for which remuneration is being restored is limited. That is the point, and that is why we already have reactions from the retired, and there is no way for a new judicial investigation and retaliatory procedure to be ruled out. Now, on the occasion of this amendment to return retrospectives on the basis of a judicial decision - no one is a Cuban politician to take them out of his pocket and give them, justice decided - I have two comments to make. The first is that governments should legislate properly. When it comes to budgetary policy, it is necessary and must have been widely consulted with all the authorities of the state, which will be able to submit their opinion on the income rules, and only then will the state be faced every four or five years with a mountain of claims that are legally on the way to their implementation and overthrow the budget of the Greek state and budgetary stability. Errors in legislating, however, do not pay for them by those who legislate. It pays all the taxpayers, and in particular the weaker ones. Let us make it clear, then, that the money that will be given to the contenders and beneficiaries of these retrospectives is money that comes from overtax. You're into overtaxing anything that moves, attempts, breathes, swims and flys. Therefore, I repeat, no new errors in wage and pension legislation. We have seen this in the past with special payrolls, and I fear that if the Katrugalou Act is unconstitutional, we will be running again and we will not arrive. And then the government and Mr. Petropoulos, the beloved, who I heard before speaking to him, must try to do the white black and justify the explanatory statement, saying: "We do not take on what the report says, that the country's financial map is being reversed and that fiscal stability is being threatened if we give retroactively". But who writes it? It was only written with invisible ink and automatic ink. Well, there are no money trees that can be fruited in Greece. If they were there, we'd have found them, you'd be sure. All benefits, however, are paid at the expense of another social group, particularly workers and professionals in the private sector. Private employees do not hope and look forward to recruitment, retrospectively, party aid or anything. So only if the magic word we hear everywhere is investment rather than retrospective, then only then will we finally get away from the vicious cycle of bankruptcy and stagnation. I would like to make one final comment, Madam President, and I shall conclude. I have a comment to make on segregation, on the distinct roles of the Church - State, as was presented yesterday by Mr Tsipras and Mr Jeronym. It is a virtual divorce, but with a real diet, which will continue to be eaten forever to pay every Greek taxpayer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u341	Thank you for the time. Now Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to travel there and all the Greeks, because this is a new man, who was literally executed, was wrongly executed, under the responsibility of the authorities of the neighbouring country. And because it is a new Greek that is lost in this way, it would be nice to be more careful and not to speak so easily when these events are warm, for 'South Albania'. Not in the sense of geographical identification, but in the sense of attempting to silence or abolish a national minority there. Because the Greek minority of the neighbouring country is a legal concept guaranteed by international treaties and provided by the constitution of the neighbouring country itself. So the memory of Constantine Katsifa eternally. Such events do not help either peace in the region or productive relations between neighbouring countries. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if it makes sense to speak today, because what we saw was the official start of the election campaign by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister came here to tell us and tried to convince the House - both through Parliament and the Greek people - that he is the antimonetary and all other memoranda. In other words, it is a memorial of the New Democracy which has implemented a memorandum of two and a half years and is not a memorandum by Mr Tsipras, who has been implementing a memorandum for four years. It is bad that the New Democracy, which voted for the return of 50% to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps and in 2014, is voting for it today - that is, the New Democracy has voted for 100% of the return - and it is good for the Government and Mr. Tsipras who in 2014 ministers of the current government spoke of "electional gifts" and "disgust" and voted against only 50%. The previous governments cut pensions and wages, and Mr. Tsipras did not cut. As if it had moved on to abolish the previous cuts. It simply came, for four years, to apply all the reductions that the browsing governments had voted for - all to the antenna - and added its own reductions. Where's the ESS? Where are the health contributions? Where is the absolute humiliation of supplementary pensions? Aren't these today's government works and days? Did you remove the previous bad cuts and bring your own milder cuts or add on your previous cuts and cuts, cumulatively creating an unbearable sum for the Greek people, Minister? Where are you better from? Where does that come from? And you come today to give what the Council of State has decided. And we hear the Prime Minister's unprecedented fact that no government - he says - has no legal obligation to implement these decisions. It's moral - it says - our obligation. First, this argument is of equal importance to the argument on a ‘ethical advantage’ on the Left. Secondly, if it does not have any legal obligation to apply the judgments of the Supreme Courts, what is the concept of justice? From a justice whose decisions are not applicable, what is the meaning of its existence? Unfortunately, however, this view of the Prime Minister comes as a follow-up to another position he has made on justice as a 'institutional obstacle'. We are voting in favour of the amendment. We cannot, however, see the olamor of the Ministers today in Parliament telling us how worshiping the Armed Forces and the Security Body. Two things may happen: Or Mr. Kammenos has convinced you all and you have become friends of the variation and the claws or just once again you are dealing with this social and professional class in a cold and undisturbed way, as an electoral material. It could happen both. I believe, however, that the second is the case. But from where do you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, give what has been quantified to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies? Are you giving them from the healthy surplus of a development process that has entered the country, or are you giving them from overtaxation to the disappearance of the middle class and the free professions, from private sector employees who are, every year, humiliated, by the wages of the generation of three and sixty euros, of the two million confiscated accounts of Greek citizens, even of those who have been imprisoned? That's where you give them, gentlemen. And you shouldn't be proud of that. The New Democracy has therefore implemented 50% of the return in 2014 and is voting today for the remaining 50%. You hearts, beyond all reasonableness, have delayed the payment of this money. Would you, Minister, return them with interest? Is it money that you should have already given from 2015 and 2016? Of course not. But you are doing nothing but trying to save yourself politically and throw a lifesaving on your government partner. So since, essentially today, the Prime Minister has officially declared the start of the election campaign - and that is what it seems from the fact that they spoke a few twenty ministers and only two majority Members came to defend the amendment - we will go to elections. Earlier or later, it doesn't matter anymore, Minister. Because she's been through the day, she's never been through again. And there, in fact, - while in this Chamber you are trying to abolish or exaggerate institutional functions, but above all to abolish the same logic - before the Greek people, in front of the polls, you will understand that the vast majority of the Greek people and they are also acting rationally. And he'll give you a strong answer to the elections coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u343	Madam President, I would like the floor for an amendment and a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u344	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u345	It is a parliamentary amendment, which I accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u346	Is this system a slowdown?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u347	You vote against it. It concerns the custodial assumption of corporate debts of the local authorities of first-degree municipalities themselves and the release of criminal and civil responsibilities from the managers of these enterprises. This is the amendment which I accept briefly. I would also like to make a legislative improvement. Due to the inclusion and amendment of this amendment in the trunk of the draft law, the hotel article also changes, because the entry into force is from 31 July 2017 and the numbering is changed accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u348	Mrs Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, want from the Step of the House to be fascinated by the depths of my heart, the parents and the relatives of Greek Constantine Katsifa, who is currently dying. And honestly what I mean is, I haven't heard you all say a word. So let's go today to the bill. Basically, there is a bill incorporating into Greek legislation Directive 50 of the European Union of 2014, the aim of which is to improve the conditions for the acquisition and maintenance of workers' rights in the so-called supplementary pension schemes. It is a bill that comes demolished to vote in Parliament as we should have complied with since May 2018. However, as it is a contractual obligation of the country and despite its retroactive force, we could only be positive. Unfortunately, however, the directive comes not to a second, but to a third and fourth degree, as the ministerial amendment as well as the MEP you have just accepted, Minister. The show, after all, proves. Today from 11.00 in the morning, which was to talk, he spent half the Ministerial Council and the Prime Minister at a show unbelievable. So what you're finally concerned with is just the show and only communication. So let us go to the amendment on the retrospectives of uniforms and others. The government, having effectively laughed at its usual practice for four years, 'now we will give it to you', 'after giving it to you', what does it do? It brings a few days, a few months before the end of its political life, this amendment with a clear election purpose and perfume. Mr President-in-Office, today's amendment is not, as you want to present it to us, your political will, but essentially, compliance with the judicial decisions of the Council of State. It is your duty, Mr Ministers, even though, as Members of the House, some of the Ministers did not vote, if I remember correctly, when we, as a government, gave 50% of the retrospectives with the financial data at the time. So where were all you guys, now cut off for retrospectives? Today, then, you remembered the payroll retrospectives. Four years later, you got the interest. It turns out in the clearest and cynical way that you are the continuation of "Tsovola, give it all" or the phrase "give it and save it", in order to have party benefits. That is your logic, that is what we have seen in Parliament today. Nothing to you at this juncture, except your political survival and election ruptures. Your amendment is nothing but another election allowance, while the government is falling apart. You share money with everyone you can. But we are not like you, thankfully for the Greek people. I just heard Mr Santorini say that the money given for the retrospectives of the uniforms came up, he says, from the fight against tax evasion and smuggling. You're only lying, lying, lying! The money did not come from there, but from overtaxation, the destruction of the middle class and the poverty of the Greeks. But even that money you give it to yourself by applying the S.H.E.'s court decisions. to give and to how it is of interest to you. So you limit the salary restoration until December 31, 2016 and in fact you do not comply with the decision of the Board of Directors. So you are continuing today with this amendment to the dance of your election benefits, refreshments and promises. One day after the show - another show - of the agreement, as you said, about the so-called separation of State - Church, which, after a moment, was intended by this historic agreement, your Government's representative came up unequivocally and sent ten thousand recruits to the public. It's probably like those recruitments that the Minister of Education would make - he's not here of course, he's come, he's done the show and he's gone - saying he's going to make twenty thousand permanent appointments to education, if I remember. Can I tell you how many assignments you were doing in education in four years? Zero! Then lie, lie, and now! Because I have listened to some and specifically Mr Papachristopoulos from the ANLL to celebrate recruitment in special education, I will tell him that he forgot to tell us a word about recruitment, the word 'deputies' and not permanent. But, once again, he remembered that, after three years, because all the previous ones I couldn't hear him say about recruitment in special education, there were problems. Election, then, what you can do. Ladies and gentlemen, one day after and after some ten thousand clergymen will no longer be in the public service, but they will be paid out of public money, you come running and desiring to place ten thousand recruits. Of course, you have told us nothing, since you have overruns, for private debt, Minister, for debts the world has in inventors and insurance funds, which have increased by 60% since the end of 2014. You also didn't tell us anything about seizures. Is that the money? Because a million hundred thousand citizens have seizures and auctions. Maybe that's where you found the money. We were not told anything about the twenty-one pension cuts. Nor have we been told anything about the tax increases that we have actually seen in the heating oil, which were so electorally cut off. In essence, however, of the 210 million which we have given as a subsidy for heating oil, you have reached 47 million and 60 million. Incredible things and ruthless and irresistible your populism! Since it is timely, Minister, I will answer you with one phrase from the Gospel: Whee, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u350	Thank you. I will now give Mrs Vultesis the floor and then immediately after Mr Katsiki, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Madam President. Today, since this morning, in this unprecedented parade of Ministers, we have heard only lies, culminating in the lies of the two partners in Tsipras and Kammenos. They told us about great economic development and made announcements, announcing what would have happened already in 2015, what if they hadn't come to power would have been completed. While Mr Tsipras was saying this, right at that time, it was announcing a few hours before a brutal trade deficit of 39.1% in September, a fall of economic climate in October. We had four knuckles in the banks. The country is unable to borrow, because its interest rate is almost 4.5% and if attempted, it will go 6%. We have huge imported inflation. We have flexible forms of work at 56%. Our economic freedom is at Venezuela level and our entrepreneurship at Mongolia level. That is the reality and not what Mr Tsipras said today. So much lies, so much words, but at the time all these ministers were talking and battling headed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, at that time the funeral was made to the Bulgarians on the North Continent. Because Northern Epirus is, I say, not what various executives say, because in the end everyone will have the right to self-determination, except for the Greeks, than I understand the agreements you make. At that time when Mr. Kammenos, the Turkish-fashioned, Skopje, the Albanian-fashioned man, was in Vima, there was the funeral of the most slandered dead, who the Greek police itself insulted a dead memory, giving the evidence of a criminal record, as if now we will die and catch us on the coffin and our criminal record! At that time Mr. Kammenos, despite the fact that both he and Mrs. Kollia came down from the 'Hui', which had come up when the naughty died on the north border and that, Mrs. Kollia, visited the Greek-Albanian border and made us the honour of coming here to Parliament, yet they said nothing at all. Look, we understand that some people need to be ministers, and that's why Mr. Tsipras chose them. Only for that purpose. We also understand other things. I heard Mrs Gerovali who came here to be proud of the Security Body, while the Security Body itself complained that they were tired of going to 401 by the "Rubbiks". That's what they say. You are not protecting the Greek national minority. As long as it lasted for the ten days of this unprecedented Greek hybrid, Mr. Tsipras found the time to make a so-called constitutional review, to do that he did not notice that the Skopje did not change their constitution and meet for ERT. In particular, the SYRIZA political secretariat with Mr Tsipras met. He also found time, while all this happened, to go to Varna and look for co-organisers for the Mundial, to monitor and effectively orchestrate the crises - that is, the caratosis - in ELAS and finally came and presented us with a deal with the Church. And then we understood why Mr. Tsipras did not find a word to say about this underground ethnic cleansing in the northern continent and to call Mr. Rama and warn him, as Antonis always did. For he obviously has envyed the glory of Enver Hoxha and decided to declare war to God and his representatives on earth. Today you celebrate retrospective returns, and on the same day you dismantle the permanentity of the public, because only ten thousand priests and civil servants are fired. When did this happen in Greek? You want to fire ten thousand civil servants. All right, you don't have them handing over the keys to the churches before they do the last function to the couchers, you don't shave them, you don't send them to work classes, but you fire them. And Hoja did that first. From 1945 to 1967 only she made redundancies. In 1967 he started dragging them around around. 'Cause that's all that didn't happen. Even Lt. Davelis would not have been Katsifas in this way carried his lifeless body, as they did at the time, carried the dead Greeks to example tied to the wagons. Mr. Tsipras cares about the sufferings of the Greek national minority and becomes the Hoxha of Greece. Today it was postponed for a parliamentary committee, because it would speak - it says - the Prime Minister and they should come down to listen to the "father". I've never seen that before. That's what I'm talking about about Hodja. Remember all civil servants who look to SYRIZA as Mr. Tsipras their "patterulus" and their protector that ten thousand civil servants are fired. It's got nothing to do with it if it's the Church, and if it's priests, etc. It's them today. Tomorrow we should be told who's next. What other public sector will these government protectors turn into private law and its employees into private law officers? Because, in my opinion, the dream of every hodge is to come to power, to drive out all those who work in the public and private sectors and to reinstate those who want it. So, Mrs. Baziana's dream will also come true, who said they took power, but they didn't take the state. There's no other way. And can I tell you something? With you, you have the first teachers, the PASOK. It is not long since they called "Coma and state, "Thodoros Tsukatos". Because that was the motto of that time and that is what you are now trying to do, turn the state into a party spoil. Don't the priests do you? They go out into the bomb and talk? You're firing them. And I want in here... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, just a minute. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I want you in here to answer explicitly: is this a abolition of the permanentity of the public service? Because that is what no one has ever dared before. Is it dismantling? Are they civil servants? Are you transferring them to another legal person, which we don't know what will happen? I say this so that the soldiers, who today are so fascinated by them, can also make another legal person there, and they can also be fed and paid for by the property that the Armed Forces have. It's easy for you to do that. So we are not getting answers to our questions. We're receiving umbilicals. There's no economy, and you're fired by civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. The Parliamentary spokesman for the ANLL for twelve minutes, and then the list will normally be kept up every three. Here you go, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was impressed by the position of Mrs Vuldis just before, especially when she made a reference to PASOK, in order to compare his involvement in government practice that characterises the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. I was impressed and remembered, I would like to say, that PASOK, which was saying another slogan, another line, 'the people don't forget what it means right', was exactly the same party that New Democracy and Samaras collaborated with. They worked together then, in the years for which the rest of us are confronted, we tried to heal and heal a situation that was dominating in the field of the irreversible social policy of tactics, a situation among others where the issue at issue today, which was overshadowed by this bill, had to make its reference mainly to returning the financial resources of the officers, the servants of the Armed Forces, the Security Body, and not just. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot believe in any event that the arguments you have put forward from this step on how we handled, in these years of governance, the issue of the return of irresponsible resources is to convince us. You don't convince me you did it for that reason. On the contrary, I am convinced that you have done so in order to create those impressions that benefit your party path and your ambitious political plans, but, insulting me, let me tell you, the intelligence and fame essence of Greek citizens. What did you tell them in other words? You told them that we've been outlawing so long that they didn't take back the miscarried ones that didn't take back what's been depriving them of, what truth? You. I have also heard a colleague say that 'You are now giving them these rights, because you have deprived them of taxes'. I ask, are you the ones who took it from them when you took it from them, where did you give it to them? You who received in April 2014 the decision of the Council of State that said that you illegally deprived them, never gave them. We did it. So when the April 2014 decision tells you that it is unconstitutional to deprive the staff members of the above-mentioned service, why did you sign in December 2014, knowing that you will lose the election, get 50%? How legitimate was it to sign up to 50%? Do you know what you're answering when they ask you that question? You say that budgets then did not allow for any more. Now, however, we should have settled our own finances in this three-year period, for which we are not responsible for what you have brought them to. A situation had to be served, what you deprived of these people. Today this particular amendment returns their jobs. Indeed, what you did not do and we come to do today, instead of applauding it, and instead of showing a consensus stand, even - even in the difficulties you may have encountered, and we are certainly more faced with what, on the contrary, are doing? With a courageous unparalleled attempt to lay blame where they are not responsible, declaring yours. Let us conclude by saying that who has, gentlemen, given the thirty-six instalments? Dose-dose started in February 2015. What you deprived of the uniforms, who paid them? You or us? You deprived them of them, you didn't tell us where you did them, when you cut them off and we paid them until 2017. So we continued to do this - with this amendment, it turns out - and the other 50%, which you, the defenders of judicial decisions, which you are applying and respecting, have never done so. We're doing it today. Please warmly, this courage, this ruthless political tactic of demagogy and populism at some point to stop. In any case, if people do not respect the Greek people, because they consider them to be chacholos, because they underestimate and insult their intelligence, let them take into account that in this Parliament there are us, your colleagues, who have given us food to be able to think, to judge. I have heard the other point, ladies and gentlemen, about the fourth memorandum. Indeed, this is a fourth memorandum, except that this memorandum was entered into the Greek area between government and society. Yeah, you can call it a Memorandum, because you know what? - the Memorandum is not only what characterizes a memorandum content between lenders, troika, quartet - say it as you like - and the Greek Government. It is a memorandum that this government has done with Greek society. This memorandum has brought fruit, good things. I will tell you very quickly, because I have heard here earlier what is really perverting the truth, is really abusing reality. You want me to talk a little bit and remind you of what insurance you delivered us? Deficient, with all the financial channels irrigated by the insurance funds. Do you want me to tell you how many billions of debt you handed it over to us? Today it has more than 100 million surpluses and it is not a deficit. Do you want me to remind you that you inherited the ENPIA, whose fairer distribution we are now also making for a large percentage of the world we have abolished it? Do you want me to tell you that we have abolished the insurance classes, where each self-employed person paid 500 euros a month, and now they were 167, so that he can also pay the insurance fund, the ECA, can stand on his feet? Do you want me to talk to you about the economic indicators in terms of the consumer index, which has increased? Do you want me to remind you that we received unemployment at 27% and has fallen below 20%? Do you want me to remind you that exports have increased, has tourism increased? Another hope is also seen in building, which has always been a booze that characterised a country's economic situation. Do you want me to remind you that for the first time the absorption of the NRP is 100%, so that companies can finance it? There are others, which I could add on the list of those who are unprotected in your argument that the economy is not going well, that we have sucked down the taxpayer's trouble and sweat, that we are doing this tax policy, which we inherited from you. I would remind you - because there was also a subject - VAT. We went - you say - VAT from 23% to 24%. Yeah, who got him to 23%? Who signed memos for this elasticity or the inflexibility of VAT? There are still the written decisions from the Ministry of Finance on your day, which prove what I'm saying. Of course, the measures announced in the Thessaloniki International Report also mentioned a reduction in corporate taxation, starting from 1-1-2019 to 29%. There has been talk of thousands of recruits of skilled staff, so that within the next year those who supported the 'Help at Home' programme - which is important, I think, for local communities - and quite a few more. But, Madam President, in order not to jeopardise me too - I had to reply as a parliamentary representative - I will now come to the draft law on which plenary meets, and I will say that this is an institutional and legislative integration of the Member States of the European Union. It does, of course, require measures to enhance the protection of the free movement of workers within the Union. In this light, this incorporation of the directive under discussion works - I believe - for the benefit of workers by guaranteeing them rights to supplementary pension benefits. Of course, the importance of harmonizing the directive in national law is understood by studying the figures and figures of migrants for employment reasons between the twenty-eight Member States. This modern migration - and above all there I would like to focus - where all people live and work in a Member State other than those in which they were born and lived, is a tragic reality for our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I believe that the incorporation of this directive - and I am ending with it - helps, facilitates and solves a quite big problem, for which we believe that this legislation will improve precisely through this mobility at the workplace of every citizen of each country. Of course, this legislation seeks to protect the five hundred thousand people who have become economic immigrants in the years of our country's crisis. As we have said - and I repeat and I shall end - we are voting in favour of this bill and hopefully it will produce the results and benefits sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u354	Mr Dimas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Katsikis made an account of the government's work, as he sees it. In this report, of course, he forgot to refer to the Embassy Agreement. And I would very much like to see, Mr Katsiki, when the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement comes, that you see your speech again and see again if you agree with what you have just said. I couldn't help expressing my warmest condolences to the family of Constantine Katsifa. What, however, made me really very much impressed is the fact that today, half of the Ministerial Council from the Step of the House was paralyzed and no one referred to this matter. And not only did no one mention this issue, but we have had insulting reports from the Albanian Prime Minister in the last few days, and unfortunately the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, left them completely unanswered. I think anyone can draw their conclusions. But let's go back a little bit, in 2014. In November 2014, we voted to pay the retrospectives to the teams, to the Security Bodies, to the judges and to some other social groups. 50% of the retrospectives were paid. We have also calculated that the remaining 50% will be paid over the next three years. The remaining 50% was not paid because the next government, the government of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos decided not to give this money. If the Greek Government had complied in time with the judgments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, some of our fellow citizens might have been able to repay some of the outstanding debts to the public or even saved their home. I want to see the numbers. One out of two taxpayers owes money to the tax office. The 1/4 private debt has been created in the last three and a half years, for days Tsipras - Kammenos. For the last three years, we've got a record of seizures. In 2018 it is estimated that we will have about two million seizures in bank accounts and a very large reduction in available income. Parenthesis: 2014 was the only year in the last eight years that we have had an increase in the income available to Greek citizens. What for? In 2014, the government had gone ahead with specific tax reductions. We had reduced VAT, if you remember, to the focus from 23% to 13%. Today it's 24%. We had reduced insurance and employers' contributions by 5%. We had reduced the tax on heating oil by 30%. We had reduced the solidarity tax by 30%, so that all households could take a few breaths. Today, unfortunately, with the overtaxation of households and businesses, all the government has achieved is to knee to Greek society. In addition, 2014 did not become first home auctions. See in the next few years how many auctions, unfortunately, will be made. In 2014, there was no excess, to which we have committed the entire property of the country, and we did not have the obligations for outrageous primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060. In 2014, however, we had also regained access to markets. We forget that. If you remember, the reason why we were driven to the third, the inappropriate memorandum, so that we were loaded with more than 100 billion as a Greek state, was because we did not have access to the markets. We have lost access to the markets since Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis made the so-called 'famous and cruel negotiation'. It's what Mr. Tsipras referred to. These illusions cost us over 100 billion euros. No one on the government party remembers that and we hear speeches that things are supposed to be going amazingly. Mr. Katsiki, 2060 is most likely that no one in this room is alive. And yet, with your policy, you will have led in 2060 to still have compulsory budgetary targets. And nobody's talking about it. Unfortunately, after the third memorandum and the execution you have made, we have not regained access to the markets. If you see the yield of the ten-year bond, it's over 4.3%. 4.3% is forbidden. If you do not understand that there is a danger to the Greek economy and you are supposedly celebrating your achievements, then are you again, unfortunately, out of reality, to deceive again? It was also heard that Greece for a third consecutive year is the first to absorb the NRP funds. That's a great lie! Enter the European Commission website and see that Greece is 16th in the absorption of the ESDP funds in terms of payments. Yes, the European Commission says so, the New Democracy does not say so, so that is not questionable. The European Commission is coming today and singing the country's economic development estimates from 2.3% to 2% for 2019. Also, its forecasts for investment in 2018, from where we had positive calculations to increase investment by 10.3%, suddenly we go to negative investments of less than 2.1%. The economy's not going well. Anyone who doesn't recognize that is out of reality. He's in delusion. I would like to close with a comment on the Prime Minister's speech, which I think demonstrates the fact that he does not put the national interest above the party, but puts the party interest above the national. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Twenty seconds, Madam President. The Prime Minister has come here and said that he will bring the positive provisions to Parliament one by one, supposedly to create a problem in Civic Opposition. If Mr Tsipras is so patriot and he really wants the good of the country, why does he not bring it all together so that we can get the result faster? Why would he want to bring them one by one? Because the only thing that is of interest to Mr Tsipras is the communication show, and that is something that in recent years has cost us too much and we will not allow it to happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u357	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u358	He didn't make any criticisms. It was a schematic question. Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u359	He said in a few words that I alone didn't say anything and he said it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u360	All right, thank God, people who listen, they understand. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u361	However, Mr Katsiki, Mr Dimas said quite rightly about the ESDP. It is worth seeing the European Commission's tables to see how much our country has fallen into ESDP receipts and absorptions. But that is not our subject today. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are bringing the amendment to the general number 1796 on payroll retrospectives, but almost four years' delay. We have not yet heard an apology from the ministers of the government against the beneficiaries of special payroll retrospectives. Because everyone knows that it was the government of Antonis Samaras in 2014 that legislated, pursuant to judicial decisions, the return of the retrospectives. It was the government of Antonis Samaras who paid 50% of the retrospectives in 2014. It was the Government of the New Democracy that institutionalised the balance's payment in 2015, 2016 and 2017. This amendment was not implemented by the Tsipras Government because it did not do what it had to do whenever it had to. The Samara government was able to pay 50% in 2014, because then our country was coming out of the programs. You were telling us that we were also mocking them and the others who suffered cutbacks and did not vote for this amendment. And today, you dare bring what was adopted then, and you should have implemented it for three years. You also dare make it your own success today that you are applying the judgments of the supreme courts in a European country. To God! What was heard in the Chamber today! Court rulings are not voluntary, they are not consultative, they are binding on the state, and this distinguishes countries that have democratic rules, countries that are a state of law, such as Greece! The amendment you are tabling also includes an injustice for widows, because there is no provision in your amendment to transfer these rights to the heirs, as happened in 2014. Generally, Mr. Minister, you have wronged the widows and the Katorugalou law. You always promise to make improvements, but we don't see improvements. Of course, these retrospective returns, as Christos Stakoras rightly said, are wrongly done because these retrospectives had to be covered by high and sustainable growth. You are returning them from overtaxation, the internal attitude of payments and the shrinking of the Public Investment Programme, today that the European Commission comes and reduces forecasts for the growth of Greek GDP. You also bring paragraph 6 for pensioners on special payrolls, linking the amount you will return in time to the Katrugalos law vote, which reduces from 2016 onwards by about 35%. I would remind you, Minister, that you have not yet done, as you are due to your own law, the recalculation of pensions under the Katrugalos Act. And that's what you know why you don't do it? You don't do it for micro-political reasons, so that people don't understand how low the pensions come out because of the Katrugalo Law. However, those who have applied for retirement since 2016 are paid with the reduced pensions. Also an alpine impression suggests, Minister, that by direct provision in paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the amendment you exclude retrospectives belonging to pensioners from the pension recalculation basis. So you are in direct contrast with the decisions of the Council of State. You play with the laws, the budgets and the lives of people in how it suits you. Because the Prime Minister has mentioned the question of whether we are in or out of the memorial, it is clear that our country continues to take measures, have objectives and be on surveillance. So we're within a memorial. But we are out of programme, because we no longer have funding at low interest rates. On the other hand, our country now appears to be off the market. I would also like to refer to the incredible allam created by the proposal for the Church-State agreement, on the basis of which ten thousand priests are made redundant and will no longer be regarded as civil servants, as you said. You also play here games with the wages and insurance cover of ordinary priests. We are talking about those who in the remote islands, in mountain villages, in poor urban areas are daily fighting to support local society, in a difficult time, helping ordinary people. You, without thinking and with incredible lightness, put them in a vortex, in an adventure that they don't know how to solve. You are trying to morally detest the role of the clergy, the role of the priests, but this will not happen to the conscience of the Greek people. Of course, there are micro-political purposes, because the real face, ladies and gentlemen, of the SYRIZA - ANEL is also seen here. There is neither sacred nor loyal to those purposes. You say that you are trying to open the window, in order to promise an election of ten thousand public recruitments, as the Government Representative has announced, at the same time that, according to yours, the state budget will help the legal person of the Church to pay these salaries. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of the 2014 directive aimed at ensuring and guaranteeing pension rights in occupational insurance for workers moving from one Member State to another of the European Union. It is another step in facilitating the mobility of workers within the Union. It is another step towards creating a integrated area in the insurance market. Europe is now moving forward and is shortly expected to have the Rules of Procedure for a pan-European pension product of voluntary insurance. The insurance market is changing. The demographic problem creates challenges for all of Europe, and we need to consider whether Greece is ready to stand up to these developments. You have built an IKA that is still not working, a Single Main Insurance Body that can still not issue pensions with parallel or successive insurance. You have suffered a loss of income from Greek citizens. You reduced pensions and increased contributions twenty-one times. And now you're saying you're coming to reduce the contributions to freelance professionals. Minister, when we told you that the contributions to the professions were inconceivable, you told us that you were being embraced on the street. Now you come and accept a basic proposal from the New Democracy, which is a reduction in contributions. Our difference? We are calling for the reduction of insurance contributions for all and for employees. All insurance contributions must be reduced to strengthen the available income of Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, too. Mr Kelles, Member of the New Democracy, then Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Madam President. The incorporation of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the maintenance of supplementary pension rights is certainly a regulation on the completeness of the European Union's economic integration and, of course, we, as a New Democracy, will be positive. This bill, however, is wrong today because we saw a parade of the entire Ministerial Council almost to support an amendment to pay retrospectives and four years behind in Armed Forces, Security Body, university and teaching staff, judiciary officers and staff of state orchestras of Thessaloniki, Athens and National Liturgy. And, of course, to avoid any misunderstandings, I say that in advance, the New Democracy will be positive in the amendment. "The government will implement judicial decisions on retrospectives," said Mr.Janakopoulos, the Government's spokesman for the press. Mrs Ahtsoglou, Minister of Labour, Mr Secretary of State, appealed against the primary court ruling, which was entitled to retrospective pensions, and it appeared certain that the appeal would be won and that the retrospectives would not be given. And for the record, what did she invoke in her appeal? Listen to it! First, that wage cuts were well made. Secondly, that the cut was made in the financial interest. Thirdly, to save thousands of Greek households. And don't tell me the appeal was made for formal reasons, because they don't even stand here for a joke. You, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Petropoulou, at first you said what Mrs. Ahtsoglou said, namely that the appeal will be won by the Greek State and that the pensioners will not be run by the lawyers to bring legal proceedings to the courts. But now you've changed your position, too. Call the retireds to go to lawsuits if they want to be justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u364	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u365	You. Don't you say that? Have you changed it? And we come to the Congregation of Music, at the celebration of the Air Force - many years in our Air Force today - where Prime Minister Tsipras said that "we will render the retrospectives with an amendment tomorrow in the House, no..." - listen to what he said - "...for legal reasons, not for the application of judicial decisions, but for reasons of political will". And I ask you, who's making fun of who? That's how badly it's because you're applying legality? Aren't you used to it, Mr. Undersecretary? And as other New Democracy colleagues have said, 50% of the cuts had been returned to the Samara government in 2014 and in much worse budgetary conditions. And you are now coming and giving us the rest of the four years' delay to confirm to us that the elections are coming. And can I ask you something? Where do these 820 million of them come from, which now - well, I stress - are coming back? From the increase in GDP, from the high growth we have, from sustainable growth in the economy, or from a steep wages and pensions, from overtaxation to free trade and business, from the absurd increase in insurance contributions, from the increase in VAT, from the reduction in the Public Investment Programme, from tax-free? And there is also a new reduction, which you have signed. "To burn you, Yannis, to grind you oil," we say in Larissa. I have heard Mr Gabroglou just now promise twenty thousand permanent appointments to education, and today he told us that these appointments will take place in 2019, 2020 and 2021. I am not a Member for many years, but I have never heard the House of Ministers make programme statements concerning the next government, the Mitsotakis Government, unless Mr Gavroglou does so well that he thinks he will remain Minister of Education and the Mitsotakis Government. After she broke up high school, now she's trying to break up high school. As far as universities are concerned, the abolition of pan-Hellenics is going, we have forgotten. We've been listening to her for three and a half years, now she's done too. But I want here to stand by the academics. Do you think the return of the retrospectives solves university problems? So is that why universities are closed down or because they have turned universities into centres of lawlessness, crime and infraction? Is it because the various foreigners and all the "Rubics" who terrorize students and teachers in the universities perpetuate them? So the parents are sending their kids out of their lap to study or to do the university work for the police, which you don't allow the police to do, because if you let the police, she knows very well to do her job? With regard to university and TEI associations - I say this for Mr Gavroglou - are these associations now or are they the creation of new universities? Is it depending on party pressures on how the combinations are to be made? Do the new schools have any professional rights? Do the students have a professional rehabilitation? Do they have a connection to the labour market? Because of what we see only this does not exist within the forthcoming association of the University of Thessaly with the TEI. In conclusion, I will say that at this point in time, ladies and gentlemen, the funeral of the son of a bitch, Constantine Katsifa, is taking place in Bulgaria. I would like to ask the President, the Minister: is the government represented at this funeral? Who represents us, Madam President? Who represents us, Minister, by the government? Or do you think he was well killed? Does anyone represent the government at the funeral, Madam President? I don't know. The government is not represented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u366	I'm not answering for the government. Just for the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u367	The New Democracy is, however, represented. I tell you that the New Democracy is represented by two of its Members. I think the Greek Parliament should pay tribute to this lad who went for free lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u368	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the Netherlands, from Nehelenia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. As you described before as " nonsense" the words of the Congressman of the Golden Dawn, Ms. Papa, when referring to the Northern Epirus, I urge you to do your self-criticism, looking into the mirror. As for unscrupulous Mr. Philie, who is fond of the provocative statements, he started from the day before that he said he was not Northern Epirus, but is southern Albania, and that Katsifas was extremist, at the height of today's disguised resentment on the day of this new witness's funeral, that he was mentally disturbed, I would very much like to know - of course, because hero Katsifas is now dead, is on the surface of the heroes - if you were next to the street and told someone to point to the mentally disturbed, who would suggest. But what else can we expect from a slogan of unwilling Hoxha triumphs who wept at his funeral, Sigurimi triumphers and all those who oppose Hellenism? With what you've said these days, I'm sure you must have been happy with what happened to this young man. This nation has been writing history through heroic acts of self-sacrificing Greeks for thousands of years, from the three hundred Leonidas, from Constantine Palaiologos, from Papaflessa to Manikis, from Androschos, from the Messologist and heroes, from Suli, from Chrysostomos Smyrni, from the heroes of the '40s. A worthy follower of these is Constantine Katsifas, who is buried in the same cemetery as fifteen soldiers buried in this epic. It is this nation that wrote history of the heroes of the EEC that were fallen or hanged by the English, by Karaolis, Demetrius, from Axentius, from the heroes of the camp of ELDYK, from the new witnesses Isaac and Solomos. And he, Mr. Philly, Solomon mentally disturbed was, with the cigarette on his lips, going up to the web knowing he's going to die to take down the flag of the sub-century enemy. From Aristotle Gumas, Helios, Karathanase, Vlahakos, Yalopsos, and now from Constantine Katsifa. By the way, all these - except the three hundred Leonidas, because at that time they did not exist Christian religion - fought for Christ's faith in holy and patrimus freedom and challenged all the things that are going on these days except national matters and with your efforts to come to an agreement for which the reactions seem to be fierce from everyone for the church and segregation of State - Church. Kostas Katsifa's sacrifice achieved something very special. He awakened all Greeks and those who knew and those who didn't know. Those who knew what was happening on the North continent and who have diligently been trying to convince them that something has been going on there for years. Incidentally, those who saw these days the television networks only saw Greek flags in this heroic village. Another transcript that there are only Greeks living there. Not only did he wake up all Greeks and those who knew and those who did not know, but he showed and learned that the Northern Continent is, first, purely Greek and second, slave. He also showed something else. It has shown that, unfortunately, Greek foreign policy does not exist. It is tragic that the mistakes made by all the last governments, at the height of your own, which goes on to close, as it says, all national issues with retreats at all levels from the shameful Prespecies Agreement, where the vast majority of Greeks over 75% fall against, but unfortunately the people in positions - keys do not take into account anyone and proceeded with the work of Soros and the other nationalists, according to what your co-pilot, Panos Kammenos, within the Ministerial Council, whose minutes all seek and cannot find them. As also, one cannot find Mr Kotzia's resignation letter, nine pages hidden, seven-sealed secret. What the hell did this resignation write and he doesn't find the lights of publicity? In the last two days we have seen Mr Pano Kammenos say 'no, I did not say that', Mr Kotzia says 'yes, good Pano, very nicely put' and all that. And otherwise Greece will always be brought by all its neighbours. It is sad when modern martyr Kostas Katsifas, the last soldier of the nation, is buried in his article, as the Chief of Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaliakos writes in his statement today, you can tell each other who has it bigger, although you both have it as a minimum and I mean social sensitivity, so as not to be misunderstood by anyone. And it is challenged to bring a bill and talk to resolve some issues of worker mobility within the European Union. This concerns not only the current coexistence, but also the previous one, which, with the ethnic practices of the memoranda, led hundreds of thousands of our compatriots to leave and continue to leave abroad. It seems that we have come out of the memorials and that growth has not been learned by all those who daily leave, leave home without wanting, a Brain drain that is evolving into genocide, which is evolving into economic bleeding of the insurance and all other economic indicators. And you're all perfectly responsible and the present and the previous ones. We have heard before the crowd of ministers who have come to support and say what is nice and good that has all been done and we have started to share the money with you. We have heard Mrs Papanatsiou and I have two expressions that she has said. It referred to ‘usable management’ and to ‘financial legality’. Of course, now how good management is done, and in the last two years we have more than 2 billion public spending on payment, we would like you to explain that to us. And something very important, because in that sort of sorting you're talking about, almost no one was mentioned. If you wanted, gentlemen of the government, to be morally right and to move your finger on anyone, you would not just say and try and say that it is a political decision to return the retrospectives. Because this was done by a decision of the Council of State and you are obliged and forced, despite any appeals, impediments, objections or anything else, to do so. You would be morally right, dudes, if you said that these retrospective returns would be included in the years from 2016 and other categories of citizens would be included, who did not resort and no decisions were made from the S.H.E. For them. In short, it should be for everyone. Of course, before these cuts were made, or during these cuts, the courts, as well as some who want to be prevented, have made decisions showing that they are illegal. You are trying to convince us that your budgetary plan through the memoranda leads us to a good path, regardless of whether we entered 320 billion debt and after eight and a half memorials we are about 325 billion and when the debt to GDP tends to touch 200%. So everything you've done so far is a hole in the water. We have heard many other things here, such as the achievements of the New Democracy with Mr Samaras, as the Members of the New Democracy said and the achievements of the SYRIZA in about three and a half years, as the SYRIZA Members said. The reality is different. Excludes tourism, which runs rather from acquired speed rather than on the basis of some pattern, which brings a cigarette from there and beyond all other areas are crumbling. We constantly see it, all the big companies go abroad. It is typical that more and more companies are leaving Greece. And we have said so many times that the very big companies here are changing tax base, which is what the law allows them, and automatically it's like they're leaving Greece. Those small companies can close and go to Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Skopje and elsewhere, because there the investment environment is much better than here, they do. Those who can't, very simply close and work "black" or they don't work at all. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] In conclusion, I would like to make a comment on this agreement, or rather on this draft agreement, as the Archbishop Mr Jr. said by corrigendum, concerning the separation of State and Church. Just because all the atheists come out and celebrate this deal, it goes on to say that this agreement is extremely damaging to the nation and Orthodoxy. Because, whether you like it or not, Greece and Orthodoxy coexist and go for thousands of years together and only together and no one can separate them. Now, whether a vicious State along with a Church, which doesn’t think and see all this, they want to do something else, probably they won’t achieve anything at the end. They will simply make it difficult for those who will come at some point - whether the next or the next or the opposite - to rule with real force, love for their homeland, for their religion and for their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, too. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to express my condolences to the family of Costa Katsifa, who is now waiting for their child to be buried. And I do so even if they did not say anything by the government or by the majority Members. I can't be at Stepma right now that the funeral is taking place and I can't talk about it. Mr President, I come to the subject of today's bill and, in particular, the amendment. Mr Tsipras came here today to tell us that we are obviously embarrassed that this amendment is coming. I will reply to him for me - and I believe I am speaking to my colleagues too - that no one is embarrassed. Why should we be embarrassed, after doing something that we did in 2014? In other words, what the Samaras government has done and what Mr Mitsotakis has announced. So it is embarrassing - I return - that the Prime Minister, perhaps, who completes the work of Mr Samaras and also meets an announcement made by the Chief of Officer of Anti-Population and President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So we are obviously saying 'yes' and why we had started this and why we obviously have to apply judicial decisions. If you would like, Mr President, to be awkward, I would refer you to the minutes of the sittings when we debated our amendments in June and November 2014, respectively, which were the rapporteurs, Mrs Constantopoulos and Mr Tsakalotos, who had nothing but nothing to say, to justify the fact that they did not vote for these retrospective payments to the members of the court and also to the judges. And you did not vote - as Mr Tsipras said, and I return that - and you did not bring them four years now and the Prime Minister himself, to tell us that we must be embarrassed. No, well, we're not embarrassed for that reason. Also, Mr. Tsipras says, we must be embarrassed, because our real issue is that we have no record. That is the problem of the New Democracy right now, that we do not have - the Prime Minister says - a strategic account. We now need to look at what words in the dictionary mean. It's a story, as the dictionary says, an version of reality. Let's start with Mr. Tsipras' original account. The original account, you remember, was the program of Thessaloniki. It was this account that said he would not only give retrospectively, but he would give increases in wages, that he would rip memos, etc. Where did this account end up? It ended up before the cliff, we almost left the European Union and finally came to a reality. What was the reality? It cost the country 100 billion, and this unnecessarily memorable memorial. So the narrative was the Thessaloniki programme and the reality was that the Prime Minister - he admitted it to Mr Tsipras - had delusional ones. That was the reality. The second account was the parallel program. That's a nice story. "I will bring a memorial, but I will bring other things and so the Memorandum will not hurt you." That's what he told the people. That was the second account. There was nothing that the lenders did not just ask for, but imagined and did not happen at that time. Where should I start? From the superstition where the entire Greek property has been in for a hundred years and are we looking to find out if some archaeological sites have entered? Where should I go from? From the red loans, where did they go to the funds? Since the abolition of the protection of first residence? Since the law was abolished, where is it coming? Of the twenty-one cuts in pensions? Of the twenty-seven new taxes? From the cut in EKT, half of the heating allowance, haircuts? This is the reality of the second narrative period of the Prime Minister. So let's go to today. Because the Prime Minister came here today not only to support the amendment. After all, half the Ministerial Council did. He came to launch the election account of the government's majority and government, despite the fact that we don't have elections, but anyway! So, what is the new account we are going to hear now? We got out of the memoirs, he says, everything's fine and we're gonna start sharing money. That's the account. That's what you'll hear, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the Greek people will hear for the next few months, going to the elections. This, of course, will also be overcrowded by the doctrine of Polakis, but also by a lot of mud against our political opponents. Because it is not only for Mr Tsipras to build an election record to cover the reality - which is not covered - but also for the possibility, not for the moment, but for fraud. Because I would remind you that OLAF, the European Commission's Anti-Fraud Office, is doing research to see what funds were made available to Greece for immigration. I am not talking about the complaints of each other, of the Ministers and of the government partner, as to whether Soros finances or does not finance the famous letter, which no one gives to the public. So that's Mr. Tsipras' election account. And that at a time when the Prime Minister is telling us 'there is growth in the country'. What do you think, good? We are last in Europe at the rate of growth. It says: 'A, there has been an eight-point reduction in unemployment'. Really? Ask the generation of 360 euros, which is the generation Tsipras - Kammenos. Ask those who work four hours, because the elastic forms of work are at the highest level they have ever been. So this is the new election account, and that is the reality. And the Prime Minister tells us that we should be embarrassed. Hey, no! We're not embarrassed. You should feel embarrassed in front of your responsibilities towards the Greek people, because your account is populism, it is lying, it is hypocrisy and the reality is what Greeks and Greeks live and we know it. And can I tell you something, Mr. Tsipras? Yes, we do not have an election record, because our account is reality, it is the truth, it is the plan and vision of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to make bold reforms, to reduce taxes, to bring investment, not to share poverty and misery, but to come true, sustainable development in this place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Mr President, in the Prime Minister's comment on whether we are embarrassed to say that I do not feel embarrassed. But I feel a big question. And my question is how it is possible to be so closed up in the Maximus Mansion and not to understand that what the world feels is anger. The government and this government majority, who do not understand that people feel anger with their courage, their hypocrisy and their cynicism, have lost their contact with this reality. But soon, in the elections, they'll understand it in the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. The reason for seven minutes is Mr. Fotilis and then Mr. Treasury and we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all a few words on the amendment in question. I have heard Mr Tsipras say that the payment of the retrospectives to which this amendment relates is a political choice of the government and not an obligation, because the New Democracy did not do so and I do not know what else it was saying. First of all, I don't know, but tell me how democratic the Prime Minister of a country seems to tell you that the execution of an irrevocable decision in a favoured democracy and society is not an obligation of the state, but a choice. As for what New Democracy did when it was government, listen: Respecting the decision of the Council of State, it proceeded with the implementation of the decision, giving half the retrospectives, in line with the country's budgetary capacity at that time and with the obligation to give the rest by the end of 2016. What did SYRIZA do then? Did she vote for this amendment in November 2014? Oh, no. As the ANELs did not vote for it either. Such hypocrisy! And finally, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos came and with their policy they simply delayed repayment by two years. The payment of the retrospectives was not Mr. Tsipras' choice, but his obligation. What is his choice is the payment time he chose to give, that is to say, electorally, with the sole purpose of catching votes, and is saved from the outcry that comes through the elections, whenever they are. Besides, a few months left. Now let's go take a look at the news. Relationships between Church and State. It unfolds day after day the hypocrisy bucket. People with no ideological background, no values, no principles. Only authority to stay in power, at all costs. What are the basic principles of SYRIZA for relations between the Church and State? First of all, in what has to do with SYRIZA's assets, the fixed position of SYRIZA was that the asset solution needs constitutional revision. Our standing position is clearly that we need to update relations, but there is no need for any constitutional review to achieve this. Just a simple legislative intervention. That is why in 2013 we legislated the "Syriza Management Company" and then SYRIZA, with the precedent of Mr. Voutsi, voted against the relevant article, saying that the only solution to the assets is the change of the constitution. What does SYRIZA say now? No constitutional review, yes to the company. Wages and payroll. SYRIZA's standing position that the state must stop paying the salaries of the clergy, who must be paid from the funds of the Church. What does Mr. Tsipras say now? The state will continue to pay the salaries of the clergy. Spiritual matters. What did SYRIZA say? Not to prevail the Orthodox Christian religion, to deny, in other words, the reality that Orthodox religion is the dominant religion in the consciousness of the overwhelming majority of the nation, namely all Greeks. What does SYRIZA say now? Be dominant religion orthodox Christian, yes to homogeneity, yes to Article 16, as it has to do with education and Christianity. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, Mr Tsipras's agreement on the one hand is a handful of assistance, a closure of Mr Tsipras's eye to Mr Kammenos, but at the same time he is also a fist in his party's stomach, to all of you left-wing comrades. Really, I'd like to hear, where's Mr. Friends? Where are all your left-wing comrades to give their opinion on this reform? Today, half the Ministerial Council has spoken, the Prime Minister has even come, but a SYRIZA MEP has not said to speak, we see that the seats are almost empty. So I ask, gentlemen, on the left: Will you remain faithful to your principles and values, or will you give in to the opportunism and delinquency of your Chief? Let's go look at the rest now, because, you know, the country is squeezing in all areas. In the economy, we really live comedian situations. Minister - he is here, we see him, the Minister is sitting here - state in public that the retrospectives will be paid, when the primary decisions are finalized and at the same time as he says, the Ministry credits the money to the beneficiaries' accounts, in ignorance of the Minister. For one week the Minister and his Minister disagreed with each other. One in the morning says otherwise, the other afternoon comes and says otherwise. And all this, of course, where? At the retired people's hump, they've really misunderstood. Scandals on scandals. Public Gas Undertaking. Head of SYRIZA, former president of Kavala Fertilizers, takes office in PPC and gives the state money to his former employer. He's charged with infidelity. Terrible. Change the terms of the tender after it has been ratified: from 20 million advance, 10 million advance. From two hundred acres, nine hundred so many acres. It has never happened before, at least in post-government Greece. "Eleftherios Venizelos". It has been necessary for foreigners to come to say 'what are you doing, don't you know your interest'? and send us back the contract. PPC, first theme. Two months before the Prespecies Agreement, PPC purchased a Skopje company, owned by Skopje Deputy Prime Minister and associate of Zaev. In the second year it is revealed that this company has liabilities. PPC, second topic. Without any problem, he goes out and says, "You know, last year we were wrong, we didn't have 30 million profits, we had 250 million losses." Didn't he say, Mr. Screka, unrefractory? And well, what does that Securities and Market Commission do? Come on, it's no big deal, we don't have 30 million profits, we got 250 damage, it's nothing! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. And investors leave day after day, they change, move their homes from our country to other countries, because they cannot bear the burden of overtaxation or, of course, this overcrowding. TITANAS is gone. BLACKROCK announced the freezing of a major investment in Athens. The investor in Skouria claims a hundred million-million-dollar fee for blocking the investment. And in Greek we're still trying to farewell to the forest, which the government suddenly discovered. In our national affairs, the government's image is at least sad. After the public dismantling between the ministers of the same government and the charges we have come to see former Minister sue for slandering. And the Prime Minister observes abundantly, he whistles indifferently. What does Mr Kotzia's letter of resignation really say? What was said in that notorious Ministerial Council? Nobody's talking. We'll find out through justice after the lawsuit filed. On security issues - and I am closing - we are waiting to see what ends the conflict between the Minister and her Deputy. But until they find out what they are going to do, the universities are closed and the Ruviks are dancing, ladies and gentlemen. It is a government that sinks every day at the expense of this heterogeneous coalition, which has only one common point: staying in power at all costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is not worth it. The Greeks deserve better. They deserve a government that really stands at the problems, the real problems they are concerned with, and will give solutions. And soon they'll have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr. Treasury has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the logic of the fiesta that governs you as a government, the Prime Minister announced yesterday in the excellent celebration of the Air Force at the Concert Hall of Music that he tabled an amendment to the return of the retrospectives to the officials of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, justice and universities. I was at the feast and represented our president. But I noticed that the audience was cold and indifferent, Minister. He didn't applaud Mr. Tsipras' announcements. They were obviously intuitive about the forthcoming injustice that the present government would have reserved for them in a few hours and once again. The Minister of National Defence had made his flag of returning the retrospectives since 2015 and for four years continuously. We have arrived at the end of 2018, and even at the middle of a long election period, to bring in an amendment that you are really hampering the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, our judges and our academics. And that, because it is inconsistent with the spirit of the S.H.E.'s decision. for the reimbursement of their salaries, in principle, in active employment at the levels of the year 2012, as it grants 50% as retroactively only from 1-8-2012 to 31-12-2016. It does not, however, take into account the adjustment of wages and pensions. The Minister of National Defence has today invoked the new salary of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies under Law 4472/2017. Although it has express force from 1-1-2017, it has unfortunately been delayed, from 1-1-2018, under the responsibility of the government. This means, therefore, that retrospectives should be administered by 31/12-2017 and not by 31-12-2016. In fact, you deprive them of one year's retrospectively. You're mocking them, that is, in front of their eyes. Also, the amount of the remaining 50% shall not take into account an increase in the personal difference from 1-1-2017 onwards. As far as pensioners are concerned, retrospectives are granted as 30-6 2016, but they do not have an adjustment of their pensions in accordance with the decision of the Board. The tragic thing is, however, that you deprive them of two and a half years' retrospectively. The Katorugalou law requires the protection of old pensions paid at pre-law levels up to 31-12-2018 and a cut from 1-1-2019 of the personal difference, i.e. between old and newly recalculated pensions. This means that retrospectives should be given up to 31-12-2018 and not up to 30-6-2016. With your left policy mathematics you deprive them, Minister, of retrospectively two and a half years. Naturally, your above-mentioned omissions will lead the active and retired officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps to resort to mass judicial claims, so a new cycle of judicial adventures opens. You don't solve problems. You're creating problems. On the other hand, we would expect this amendment from you or someone else to restore injustice for orphan families, as expressed by the Death Marriage Association called "AXIA". The previous government, the Samara government, with Law No.4307/2014, returned to the active and retired members of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, and to university and judges 50% of the cuts judged to be unconstitutional by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, implementing with faith and respect the decisions of justice. He even adjusted wages and pensions growth. In addition, it committed to providing the remaining 50% in 2016 and thereafter. In accordance with the relevant application of the known CIA, retrospectives were to be submitted to the pensioners at thirty-six monthly doses at the time. Article 2 of that Staff Regulations was intended to pay the retrospectives and the members of the families to which the pension had been transferred for those who had deceived. But you, today, have provokedly ignored orphan families who did not get the money they deserve, and we tabled a question from 27-3-2018. We beat you to the bell and you did not hear it, because we have so far not received a substantial response from the relevant ministers, as they should have done under the Rules of Procedure. To conclude, Minister, this is an amendment - a mockery for the officials of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, the justice and universities, and you are bringing it today, on the feast of the protector of the Air Force. It is an amendment in the sense of charity for people who, in high mind and heroism, serve or serve the country. And, in order to return a little time back, by decision 1128/2016, the Council of State considered Law 4093/2012 as unconstitutional, following team actions and reiterated its judgment of the return of remuneration in August 2012 levels. To date, this decision has not been implemented, despite the constant assurances of the Minister for National Defence. He constantly found credits and codes for its implementation, which unfortunately did not accept, as he says, the Minister of Finance. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our President, has committed himself to meetings with representatives of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps that he will return 50% of the retrospective normal rather than what you do today, and he has even promised that, once we become a government, we will submit a new salary, which will take into account the specific characteristics of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps and will ensure decent remuneration. But we have a brave policy. We are voting in favour of what you are bringing to the House today, as the competent department, the juggled and unorthodox 50%, in breach of the judgment of justice, with the statement that you have blatantly condemned the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps whether they are in operation or in the reserve. You have also been wronged by the officials of our universities and courts, with the statement that we TIMUME - in capital letters - and do not forget them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and students and four educational attendants from the 7th Trikala High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. And today, with the intervention of the Prime Minister, we heard the new government's account once again, a government account which not only falls into any reality, but, on the contrary, reverses it and adapts it to the measures of government propaganda. First of all, the government's account speaks of a return to economic normality. But, really, what is this economic normality, when uncertainties are exacerbated and magnified in the international capitalist economy, uncertainties resulting from increased competition, from trade war, for example, between the United States and China, from the trade war between the United States of America and the European Union, from uncertainties exacerbated by the growth of imbalance within the European Union and boosting centrifuges? The situation with Italy and confrontation with Germany is precisely the result of the deterioration of the Italian economy for the benefit of the German economy, when there is this huge overcompensation of capital, which hampers the development of the capitalist system and the increase in the profit rate. What economic normality are you talking about, when the contradictions between the imperialist centres and the other major capitalist economies are further exacerbated, which are particularly acute in our region and especially in the region of the Western Balkans, bringing closer to the risk of war, imperialist interventions, the change of borders in the Western Balkans region, by exploiting the nationalist corons - today we have filled such nationalist corons - by turning the Greek Government into a signatory of American designs in the region, in the name of geostrategic, as you say, the upgrading of our country and the Greek economy? In other words, you turn Greece into a firing field, you turn Greece into a goal, in the name of facilitating the penetration of business groups into the Western Balkans region and the wider region, in order to protect, that is, the interests of businesses. The second part of the government account, of course, is fair growth and you are very revealing what that means, fair growth. This revelation was made just the day before yesterday, in the presentation made by the Ministry of Economy for the hundreds of two actions for the benefit of business groups. Only the contents you need to see do nothing else: how you improve, the government, even more the business environment, how you improve the development and extroversion of business groups, how you support even more the financing of businesses, new development laws, support for strategic investment, attracting foreign investment to the country, promoting privatisation, public-private partnerships, new investment schemes and tools that help businesses, how you support investment in the Balkans and Balkan co-development, as we have said, but also a number of other issues, which just support business interests, shield the competitiveness of business groups and capitalist profitability. And even in these actions is the abolition of the Katseli or Stathaki Act, as you call it, and even these limited ones, the minimum protection measures for first homes from auctions in the name of the management of red loans and the restoration of the financial situation and capital adequacy of the banks, resulting from the new year in which the auctions and the threats to highly indebted people's households, the blackmailing of the highly indebted professionals and farmers, are to go to settle their loans, in order to protect either the first home or the tools of their work. This is the nature of the fair development that you are evangelizing, a fair development, which is conditional on the working conditions of the jungle, which - hand to the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK - you, as the SYRIZA - ANEL government, have completed. And you completed the "good" work with the new obstacles you have put, with the new changes in industrial relations, in the name of the armoring of competitiveness and the protection of business groups. After all, the Brutsi Act that became the Brutsi - Ahtsioglu Law and the Katrugalu Law confirm the truth, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government came to do the dirty work, that the previous governments left incomplete. Because what you have invested as a government is exactly how you support capitalist growth, a growth that is not only unfair, classic, but also the breeding facility for the scandals of corruption and interlocutory. And the third element of this government account is nothing but a return to normality. So, what do you say to the world? "Thank you for enduring all these measures in previous years and today we will alleviate you." How will you relieve him? In the logic of "to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil". Not only do you not resurrect the escalation of the attack, but you continue the tax raid on the people's layers, you continue the policy of reduced wages, reduced pensions on workers and pensioners, in the name of budgetary discipline, and through the logic of the bloody primary surpluses you will give some "fucking" to the extremes of poverty. So you, too, as SYRIZA - ANEL Government, continue a huge redistribution to the detriment of people's incomes for the benefit of big capital. Because it is not exactly the period of capitalist development that you are proclaiming that we have no return to the losses suffered by workers, pensioners, people and professionals. On the contrary, from the ten you take them, you return them one by making a redistribution of poverty among the least poor and the most poor. Because that is the logic and philosophy of budgetary discipline and its non-controversy. Just in the name of this financial protection, you've signed primary surpluses by 2060. And, of course, the cohort fights between Civic Opposition, the other parties and the government, which we have heard today, are trying to cover the fact that the government continues with great diligence the policy of the previous governments, both in insurance and in wage reductions and in the agreement, which is extensive in relation to the ratification of the directives laid down by the European Union and which incorporate this bill into Greek law. And what are these instructions? What's it about? It is about supplementary insurance, that is, occupational funds and private insurance companies, which are particularly high at European Union level, due to the reinsurance reforms in the European Union and in our country. It is a glorious field for the next period to develop the business activity of all these insurance companies, which are active either in private insurance or in occupational insurance funds. This is the result of the Katrugalu law. What did the Katrugalu law do? He put the tombstone in the public character of social security and his redistributive role. And what did he bring forward? The redistributive capitalist. So you brought the Katorugalu the soul of the Pinochet system. You are also accusing the new Republic of talking about the Pinochet system, while you are applying it to insurance with the known three pillars. In essence, you are giving the so-called 'national pension', that is, the surviving allowance, and from there on, depending on the course of the insurance funds, you are increasing the contributions for workers and at the same time reducing State funding and employers' contributions and extending part-time employment, you are actually leading them to bankruptcy. On the other hand, you give the worker the cheese on the face and say: If you want more pension, make a professional insurance fund or private insurance. You have gone ahead with this bill and you go further than that. In other words, a measure on the reinsurance roller, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government continued, taking the spoon from the previous governments. For that very reason, and the amendment you are bringing here to the House demonstrates that you are breasts in the political deception of the people and pensioners. So what are you doing? You are bringing a partial refund of the retrospectives you have illegally withheld from the salaries and pensions of special wages in the form of an allowance. In other words, this will not mean that the wages and pensions of these layers will be increased. In fact, you put Article 6, paragraph 3, which you say in the specific provision of this paragraph, this is very revealing: the payment of the amount of the previous paragraph - that is, of the retrospectives - does not affect the amount of the pension paid in the light of the recalculation and adjustment provided for in Article 14 of the insurance premium, the Katrugalos Act. What does that mean to mere Greek? You say this very revealingly in the rapporteur's report: If we do not put it in paragraph 3, this will result in overturning the calculated pension expenditure and the basic assumptions of the Katrugalo reinsurance reform - I put this at the expense of the country's financial planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what do you say, and what do you confirm? That you are not going to give a penny and, at the same time, you are hypocritically pointing the pensioners at the legal offices and the big lawyers, looking for the return of those who have illegally kept them with the pension cuts, and while you yourself say that you will not allow the calculated pension expenditure to be reversed, precisely because the sustainability and surpluses of the insurance funds are counting on the bloody primary surplus. These bloody primary surpluses of insurance funds come out of the huge cuts in pensions that you have imposed, through the increased contributions of workers and also self-employed, because what you say will reduce the contributions of self-employed and scientists from 2019 is in relation to what they would pay in 2019, not in relation to what they give today. In relation to what they give today, there will be an increase in their contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you are baptizing the fish meat and we are telling you clearly: you are withdrawing paragraph 3. Article 6(3) is a challenge. As a JRC, we will make every effort until the last minute to withdraw this paragraph, because it creates problems for pensioners and puts new obstacles to their claims. But you are deeply laughed if you believe that, with these provisions and the paragraphs you bring, you will bend the racing reaction of pensioners and workers, who are preparing new strikes, having the focus and the protective law of Katrugalo and the anti-virtual law of Brutsi - Ahchioglou. From this point of view, we are clearly telling you that the JRC will do everything in its power to support these racing claims and with the workers and other popular strata to overthrow your political plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u379	I shall conclude, Mr President. On this basis, the JRC will vote for the amendment, even if the specific categories of pensioners and workers in question are to be taken into account. But the next time you find us in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Screkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with what the last speaker, the honourable Member, said from the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos. He said something very important, which had not been heard so far in the Chamber and, as he quite rightly said, the political deception that the Prime Minister himself attempts to do to the Greek people. Article 6 refers to the restoration of pension cuts. Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, came here and celebrated saying that, because the country and the economy came out of the memorials, it was going well, it restored injustice. I'll explain what he says below. The payment, it says, of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. retroactively shall not affect the amount of the pension paid taking into account the recalculation and adjustment provided for in Article 14 of Law No4387/2016. So, what does this article say? It says so. In 2016 SYRIZA came with the Katrugalu law and brought the personal difference, which Mr. Tsipras here says will not apply. Today they come and bring an amendment to restore 50% of the pension cuts that had been made since 2012. Let me say, of course, that the first 50% had been given back by the Antonis Samaras government in 2014. What are they saying now? We will give back 50%, but from 2012 until 2016, when the Katorugalou law begins, because then pensions have been recalculated. There is a personal difference, and so we do not give back the amount of the personal difference, which has already begun and is being implemented. In other words, the Katorugalou law on the reduction of personal differences is already applying factum by this arrangement, because pensioners should be retroactively retroactively for two years, which they do not take, because you recalculate their pensions by the Katorugalou law. And the Prime Minister of the country comes here and celebrates and mocks the world and even in front of his face. But what's going on today? And that's not all. In 2014 no one said that you, SYRIZA colleagues, did not vote to restore the first 50% of the cuts by Mr Samaras' government. You did not then vote for that amendment. In 2014 we gave the retrospectives to those who deserved them. Then, from that date onwards, they were given an increased pension, as were the active strains who received an increase in their wages. You only give backwards, but from now on they'll get the cut-off salary. In other words, you understand where political deception has now arrived in this country. He has no gum, he is not ashamed of his country's Prime Minister coming and celebrating for what he does. And if you thought, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that we would go to any elections, at a time when we would be a high-political process, a process of dialogue, of census and proposals, so that we can convince the Greek citizens who have the best proposal to support and support him in taking over the country's governance, you are mistaken, because Mr. Tsipras, with his coming here, has shown that two are the paths of strategy that will follow during the election period that has already begun, during this long or shorter election period. We'll see. There are two axes, therefore: Scandalology and compulsiveness. Mr Tsipras started by saying - in order to understand where he has arrived, unfortunately, this country - that today the amendment you are bringing about for the one-off, I repeat, restoring 50% of the pension cuts of whistles and judges and of some other state officials is the first legislative provision on a positive financial basis, because now the economy, he says, has come out of the crisis and because the country has come out of the memoranda. So I ask something very simple and please answer me if you can. In 2014, the government of Antonis Samaras then restored the first 50% of the pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u382	That was an election.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u383	Meanwhile, one year ago, in 2013, he had increased duty free from 5,000 euros to low pensioners and low wages at 12,000 euros for a four-member family. In the meantime, he had reduced taxation on freelance professionals and legal persons. It had also reduced by 50% the VAT on the catering, increased the heating subsidy and reduced the special heating charge. So I ask this: I very briefly told you seven positive measures, which Mr Samaras had done in 2014. Then you put him in elections on the occasion of the President of the Republic, you who come to the Constitutional Review in the meantime and say that it should be disconnected from the national elections, so that there are no strange people, some wicked people who use as an alibi the election of the President of the Republic and who discontinue in the middle of the term of office of a government, as Mr Tsipras now says. He is himself who interrupted a government's term of office in 2014, ladies and gentlemen. I have now quoted at least seven measures of a positive fiscal impact, as you say, which helped the weak households and popular strata, which you took all of them back when you came back. You have increased VAT, the tax-free limit from EUR 12 000, you have taken it gradually to EUR 7 000, and now you are taking it to EUR 5,500. Meanwhile, you died all over the world in indirect taxes and direct taxes. You are now coming four years after 2015 when you took over power, and you bring the first measure, which is also curtailed. In other words, it's half, it's not complete. Painful thinking you have brought it, because from now on these people will continue to receive low pensions, lower pensions than those taken in 2015 that you took. Of course, you don't have anything for the ESS etc. So, in order to put things in place, the reality is that Mr Tsipras' government has nothing good to show for the Greek economy and for the Greek citizens over the last four years, apart from taxes, cuts and weights in the economy, which, unfortunately, prevent a dynamic growth that will finally bring hope to the Greeks. You are currently talking and you are being cut for supposedly reducing unemployment, when you know very well that six or seven of the ten jobs created are positions of EUR 250-300 and when you know that at the moment there is a working jungle out in the Greek economy. I would like to say two more things about this so-called 'historical' agreement that Mr. Tsipras managed to achieve with the Greek Church. First of all, we need to make something clear. The question of Greek priests is not a matter which concerns only a personal situation of some people, some officials, who on the one hand are civil servants, civil servants, but, on the other, fulfil a sacred purpose. When we see the Greek priests, colleagues of SYRIZA, we see that these people represent an institution, represent something very important, represent Orthodoxy, represent Orthodox Christianity and that is part of the Greek identity. So you come and, lightly, tens of thousands of priests who perform this sacred function on Sunday morning in the mountain villages of Trikala, Oxynia or Ayophylus or on the other hand in Myrophylos, where there are ten, twenty, thirty old people and all they have is the bell of the church and the priest who will go to open the church and do the divine function - that's all they have left, because there's no teacher, there's no one in this village -, Greek clergymen, who perform this sacred debt and bring man very close to God, you come and you don't say any talk, you throw them into Andida, you don't care about the working environment, you don't care about their insurance regime, you don't care about what is going to happen from here and beyond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Screka, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u385	If we were to talk here about Ruvikon, there would be a third of SYRIZA's colleagues and others to defend him. No one came out to defend the Greek priest, the Christian Orthodox Greek priest, who is part of our national identity. You must not forget that. What differentiates us from our neighbours, beyond language, Greek culture and from our Orthodox religion, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, let him be brief. We want to talk, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u387	What do you want, Mrs. Lebanese? I'm in control of him every year. Is there a matter? I don't understand! When you're a colleague of yours in Stepa, you don't object that way. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u388	Ten minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u389	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u390	We're done. I've made an observation. I can't do it five times. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u391	It ended almost at the same time as this meeting, unfortunately, the funeral of the relative, Kostas Katsifa, who was shot, was killed for ten days now who waited without his lifeless body being bred, nothing was heard by this government, the Greek Government, which has so far only been bound to show retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Screka, you've reached eleven minutes. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u393	Only those who claim to be part of our national sovereign rights and to those who claim to be pieces of our own history and culture. They didn't say anything. All they did - if possible! - they're leaking. And here should the Minister of Citizen Protection, but also the Chief of Police, go out and talk and say how these leaks took place, which were aimed only at sparking the homosexual. And finally, if it's true, because they came out and said that this man was acquitted of what he might have once been accused of. And anyway, that was the essential thing? Was that the essential thing? That's why this man was judged, so he was shot, so he was killed there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Screka, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u395	He wasn't killed for it. He wasn't shot for that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u396	Take it easy. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the amendment on retrospective, ladies and gentlemen, a well-played performance has been set here today. We could give her a title if we took seriously what the Prime Minister said: 'What good is the fourth memorandum!'. Of course, having played this performance with a large number of ministers who produced them in Stepma, ministers we are looking for and do not find them in the parliamentary control procedure - parliamentary control was postponed on Monday, today, but now they thought they had a audience and applause coming here - we were left alone with Mr Petropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras said: 'We have hit tax evasion, corruption, and now we can and we can share'. Mr Tsakalotos was missing, but Mrs Papanatsiou, who recently replied to Parliament's scrutiny, that is to say, from the famous list of Lagard, the Borgians list, the list of people who made the money abroad, the fifty-five thousand, offshore, have been collected only 100 thousand. This is tax evasion. That was Mr. Tsipras' account, why would he say? To say that these surpluses, which, in the current phase from 2015, until the phase that has committed the country for more than 3.5%, in 2022, will be more than forty million, as he would say, 'blooded'? Will they, in other words, come out of taxes, contributions and cuts? Because the measures in the third and fourth Memorandum, I would remind you, are about 20 billion cumulated. Of course, one must ask the Prime Minister: How, with measures of twenty-billion, will he make a surplus of over 40 billion at this time? It is precisely because of the bleeding of taxpayers - wagers, pensioners - and the real economy. With what growth? With growth from 0% to 2%. Today, the European Commission reviewed in its autumn estimates of growth for 2019 at around 2%, while the preliminary draft budget provides for it at 2.5%. So this is the money that has been removed from the pockets of taxpayers, Greek citizens, Mr. Tsipras. This is the great theft, so that it is now supposed to share what it shares and to which I shall refer in detail. And, of course, we must remind the Prime Minister and the Ministers who have produced this here today the Step forward that, when cuts were made from 2010 to 2014 to prevent the country from going bankrupt, the deficit was 36 billion, and it was over the period 2000-2004, but it is the deficit of the missing partner, the government of Mr Karamanlis, which is why Mr Tsipras is not talking about. We've said it before. Can the government compare the measures to collect the 36 billion-dollar deficit, with what the SYRIZA government received in 2015, with zeroed deficits? And what was the need to go to these memos? The need was the great adventure of the first half of 2015, which, as they say, cost a hundred to 100 billion foreign institutions. The government that in 2014 did not vote for this cumbersome return of retrospectives, as it said, the government that did not vote for this allowance of the PASOK - New Democracy in 2013, today brings an amendment invoking the decisions of the Council of State, but does not implement them. We are told here that it is their political will. In the rapporteur's report, they say that it is the result of the decisions of the Council of State. This is the first big issue, because the Council of State was talking about the revival of wages. The Government merely gives a difference in a form of a grant of a kind. Because Mr. Kammenos said here "Let the military judge it", today I read the announcements of their clubs, which say it's a great mockery. That's the first thing. The second point is that the government has introduced this amendment without bringing it to the committee, so that we do not call on the bodies covered by the five articles, namely the military, the ports, firemen, universities, doctors, orchestras, etc. to tell us their opinion, because that would prove the size of mockery. And it brings it here without being discussed in committee, and indeed in a report from the General Accounting Office, which does not tell us how the 1.4 is coming. Read it, please. Read it. It does not reflect for each group concerned with the amendment what the money is. I come to the third and most important. The rapporteur's report and Article 6 of the amendment are an attempt to re-evaluate the Katrugalos Law, of Law No.4387/2016, because, firstly, it says that the retrospectives to pensioners will be calculated by the date of their accession to the Katrugalos Act and, secondly, paragraph 3 says that any retrospective process following the recalculation is forbidden. Our rapporteur and Mr Loverdos developed them. And we call on the Government to separate Article 6 from the rest of the amendment because it is obvious that its attempt to encapsulate the House in a relegating of an abortion, the Katrugalos Act, because we want to vote against it, particularly the last part of the first paragraph, which says that the retrospectives will be given until the application of Law No4387 and paragraph 3, which must be withdrawn. And we are at a great dilemma, because, yes, we want to get what the people who will get them - that was our attitude to the previous provisions of the government, to share the so-called'social allowance' - but we cannot legitimise what the government is trying to do in a false way. Because the recalculation, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been judged in the Council of State. Isn't that right, Mr. Petropoulou? He hasn't been judged. Nor has there been a major difference between old and new pensioners with the same contributions, the same years of service, and the same work with a one-day difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u398	Cut them off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Petropoulou, you have to make the big decision and say that this abortion that we created creates a vicious circle of claims. I also read today that there are a thousand seven hundred applications pending. So you are opening the bourgeoisie of Halos and you are not in an institutional way solving the issues, because it is reasonable to make an election tactic and then a real fire. Of course, the government's line is that we now have time to put an election and then we don't care what happens. It is a micro-policy and not an institutional response to the problems. As a result, it is problematic that the amendment to all three of the issues I have raised, and it is good not to encroach on what you have on the back of your mind and, it seems, the next time the courts of our country will show them. That is why I call on you, since you have left yourself to defend this covet, Article 6, to separate it from the rest, so that we too can take a very clear position in voting for those provisions that give to those who give, but do not entangle others in the logic of the Katrugalos Act. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor, and then Mrs Lebanese. The list of speakers and parliamentary representatives will be closed with Mr Manda. Then the Minister will take the floor and then he will give a second answer to those who wish, and the Minister will also give a second answer, so that we can finish and move on to the vote. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I had prepared some other things that I will say at the end, but I cannot say that he did not give me an astonishment and was not surprised by the Minister's reaction, when Mr. Screkas's report on what has happened to the Greek expatriate and the way he was murdered said "patriots". First of all, what we must say is to rest the soul of Constantine Katsifa God. Twelve days after his murder today, his funeral took place. This man, we like him, we don't like him, he was killed, because he defended the Greek flag in his mind. One of your own space - I didn't see Mr. Friend at the party today, I didn't notice him and he really wasn't here today - he dared - and Mr. Friend, you know, he's not unbelievable - to parallel Thrace with the Northern Continent, as if he didn't know that the Northern Continent has a national minority, while Thrace doesn't have one. He knew it! Did he do it on purpose? Because for sure coming today and saying that the man who was killed on the North Continent had mental disorders really doesn't honor anyone. And here there are no patriots and patriots. There is an obligation for all of us to protect values and nationalities. Why don't we just forget that here today the Prime Minister spoke, the Minister of National Defence spoke. They didn't find a word? A word, not a lot. Continuing, in order to go to the debate we should go, Mr. Tsipras came here and told us what order he would bring the measures from now on for the sake of the Greeks. In this series he didn't tell us when he was bringing in the Prespecies Agreement. That's what I expected to hear. When will the Prespecies Agreement come to see when it will continue to bring, not bring, how will the Minister of National Defence celebrate next door? Let's see really. But Mr. Tsipras, you know, until the election, he'll be tasing us 'falcons'. By the election he'll give everyone everything. And what's he coming up to do now to mock the officers of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies? He actually steals them a year back to work and two and a half years to retired people. Why are you doing this? Since Mr. Tsipras came here and told us he didn't follow the final decision of the court, he does it because it's morally right. Is it morally right to cut those people off what they think they are? Let's give it to you, Minister. Since it's morally right, it's not a matter of court proceedings, it's not a matter of court ruling, why don't you give them it to them? The courts say they are responsible for them. You say you do it because you really believe it. Give it to them. If you believe it, give it to them. Why didn't you? Because, in fact, what you're doing is making fun of the world. Because what you're trying to do is say or convince you that it's not your fault, it's their fault. That's the moto. What is happening right now in the country is the fault of the previous ones. You forget you are the country's longest-lived Memorial Government. You are the longest-lived Memorandum Government. You're the ones who did everything they asked you to do. You are the ones who have actually cut the pensions by the Katrugalo law, you have cut off to those who retire the money, and now you say what you're going to do about the previous ones. That's what you are! Mr. Petropoulou, you are the one who has been smuggling the free professional scientists, the lawyers, the doctors, with the insurance contributions. You're the one. You're the one who said you were greeting you on the street and saying what good it is. You are the ones who beat Greek farmers with taxation and insurance contributions. You're the one. What we need to know from now on, gentlemen, is that you don't have to deal with the past. You have to deal with your things. Your facts are the ones that have brought us to the situation we are today. You will apologise to the Greek people for that. You'll apologize to the end! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. Mrs Lebanese has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise for my previous behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u404	It's okay. We're on. There's fatigue, there's tension. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today concerns the incorporation into Greek law of the European directive on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States and improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. At the same time, we are called upon to decide on the adoption of a regulation which retroactively provides for several categories of workers who have been cut or illegally withheld, as Greek justice has decided since 2012 and then with the then government of New Democracy and PASOK. Starting with the bill, I think, we all agree that, especially today, with the rapid changes of the working landscape and the intense mobility of workers between countries or between different professional sectors, the rights they acquire in every working environment must be protected. On the crucial issue now of the amendment, which concerns the restoration of the injustice suffered by thousands of government officials and civil servants with the laws of the Samara Government. Reading and listening to the media, especially those directly or indirectly opposed to the government and seeking to rectify the traditional system of power in our country, I must admit that I am surprised. They're talking about election benefits, pretexts and other things. This attitude is rather revealing not just about their intentions, but about their whole philosophy, about the model of society and the economy that we are pursuing. The government today gives critical categories of public workers a total of EUR 820 million, which it has not borrowed, but has secured them, through a difficult, but also prudent political and economic management. It is not based on credit, such as the governments of the past, which have led to bankruptcy and are seeking to rebuild them. We have shaped a situation where Greece and the Greek people can rely on their own powers. And the only real obstacle to the immediate improvement of the quality of life of all of us is the money we owe because of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. The government has been extremely clear for too long. With the exit from the memorials that we achieved in August, all injustices are gradually being restored. We are starting today with the return retrospectively of the sums illegally deprived by the government of Samaras from the country's scientific potential, at the AEIs and at the TEIs, by the people who supported and held the public health system upright, when some of them coordinate it, but making use of it for their publicity, giving incredible sums to media and communication companies. We return illegal detentions to the justice officers and, of course, to the uniforms. We return retrospectively to many retired people. All the people who illegally deprived them of what has been illegally deprived of by the proclamations of the New Democracy and the PASOK are not rich. The majority of them had great twists in their level of life in the years of the swan song of the New Democracy and PASOK. The money that comes back with the current decision of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL will not leave the country, will not go into offshore accounts, will not strengthen the country's economic elite. They will, almost in their entirety, fall into the Greek market. This reality will strengthen many more social groups, stimulate the market, increase the incomes of many, eventually increase the country's GDP. The government gives a strong first sample of what comes after the successful exit from the memorials. There's gonna be more to come. You can freely claim that this is pre-election benefits. You will soon realize that this government is not working with fireworks, nor is it going to drug the way to normality. We're not talking about benefits. We're talking about restoring justice. We're talking about society's rights. And, I repeat, the money that will be given is not credit. The government has assured them. We do not need to form false images with foreign money nor, of course, to endure the future, such as maintenance forces. Things are very simple. Anyone who has really worked on the dividend knows some very simple things about the economy. EUR 820 million will be attributed to specific critical categories of workers and pensioners. That money will fall into the market. These companies will meet their obligations and their owners will also spend more money on the Greek market. The first memorial Christmas, which in the end are not abolished, as some people have feared, will be much better for everyone. But until Christmas comes, the government has other initiatives that will strengthen the real economy and society, which will restore many injustices, change reality and shape a new, better economy. So much bile, however, at today's sitting? I'm really afraid of your health. You should start getting used to it, because these election campaigns, as you call them, started and will continue until at least 2022, when citizens will be called to judge the second four years of Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA. Until then I wish you a merry Christmas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mrs Lebanese. Mr. Mandas has the floor. You've got ten minutes, but use as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u407	I will speak for five minutes because the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has spoken. So I'll be very brief. I think, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the old political system has suffered a verdict from the Government's initiatives at all levels, and for the constitutional review, and for the historic agreement to come on a legislative basis between the State and the Church, and for the Ambassadors' agreement, and for all the initiatives taken by the Government at this time. Most of all, however, it has suffered a vertigo, ladies and gentlemen, because after a thousand ways it has been said it was a fantasy of our own, that is, after the end of the memorials in August 2018, we are today on an initial initiative of the government, which will continue with other positive initiatives, which are, anyway, a positive initiative. And I don't want to answer the irrational allegations of mocking. I do not want to go into this debate at all because it is totally irrational. I mean, I don't know what New Democracy will do in the end and what KINAL will do. I do not understand whether they will finally give their vote on this positive initiative. You want to tell her half? Do you want to call her lazy? It's a positive ending initiative and a dash. And this has and will have a direct response to those people who belong to the special payrolls, to the uniforms, to the academics, to the judges, to all the social categories that belong to these social layers, who will actually take them, will see them in their pocket money along with Christmas by Christmas. In December, for all these people, there will be this restoration of injustice that we can do right now and that is very serious. It's very specific. He can't hide himself, he can't be twisted. Therefore, I think, vertigo and panic remind of some extremist voices that are heard as they pass after each other in particular, the New Democracy MPs and MPs trying to prove how much mockery it is that we are doing, huge mockery. I'll come to that one. You know, if you are trying to make a serious political and serious political controversy, then I would primarily try to oppose the arguments put forward by Mr Stagioras in relation to the Greek economy as a whole rather than to enter into this debate, as has been the case recently. So I say to Mr Stakoura, who has made an effort to present the issues of the Greek economy, that today is the day that our banking system needs 100 million less than ELA, today is the day when EBRD agreed to extend investment activities by EUR 1.2 billion over the next period of time, today is the day when unemployment came down - what to do? - under 19% and I'll tell you you're saying things absolutely inaccurate. Dedicated opposition to working jungle speaks. Who? Those who literally dissolved the Labour Inspectorate? Those who did everything possible to break up labour law? They tell us about a working jungle and don't know that today was the ninth extension of a collective agreement, which gives workers significant increases in their wages? What exactly do they want to tell us? To conclude, Mr President, I would also like to refer to this point in Article 6(3), if I remember well, which has been mentioned, in order to have a serious debate, because I imagine that the people who are speaking here are speaking responsibly. So, what exactly do they want to say? They want to say that if we were to remove this paragraph 3, would we be serious about budgetary policy in the coming years? Or do they want to compare what we are doing here today with a very specific strategy, which gives results, with what they did in 2014, when they decided to derail the programme by going to the elections, which they thought would win? When they had, I repeat, decided to derail the programme and this was then seen by the so-called exit to the markets they have attempted and that ended in the fiasco of August 2014. That's the reality. So within this financial framework and after changing the special wages, giving rise to increases in the basic salaries of special wages, which you do not say, since we have changed the law on public social security, some people have told us that we are implementing the Pinochet system. I cannot answer such irrational arguments. In any case, we have taken an insurance system, which was a deficit and which was ready to collapse, and we have set it up again with difficulties, with losses, yes, to discuss them, to look at them, to see how we can fix things, but not to tell us such inaccuracies. I therefore believe that this is a positive day for the Greek Parliament, which will vote at the end of the day for a positive amendment. At the end of the day this will be positive for large categories of Greek citizens, for uniforms, for academics, for ERC doctors, for judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Mada. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos. Minister, you have eighteen minutes at your disposal. I don't know how much time you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u409	No, I'll speak from my place for a while. I will make a summary of what we have said, and we will see how the speakers will be seconded, and in the end I will make my final speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u410	So I give you ten minutes and if you want to run out of time, you can do it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u411	I'll be very brief. It must not be forgotten that the parliamentary amendment that has been tabled, which relates to the obligations of Ottawa I bodies, which, with a deprivation of their debts, are succeeding by the municipalities. Here, too, we need to know the positions of the parties, because no one mentioned this issue. The second point I would like to make is that the term 'goodness' - because someone tried to recount me about it - is of the following importance. He is the one who wants to use ideas, symbols and faces for his own benefit. It is this parade of all who swear in the honor of a dead man to exploit the votes of the North-West and make enemies of SYRIZA the people who do not have the same view necessarily as those who want to invoke the fact. And after all - I do not know if they have already proposed that the Greek Parliament vote to make a war on this issue. I don't know how long this cavalry mood arrives. That is what is said in the so-called 'patriots' speech. Home has many mothers and fathers for years. The country, the state, the police, the army and the nation of course - usually these spaces had fathers and mothers - had ethnic fathers and ethnic groups, who had nothing to do with the patriotism of the Greeks and had nothing to do with what the struggle for freedom, democracy and rights always symbolized. All the opposite they all wanted. They have always wanted authoritarianism, hatred, intolerance, demolition of all the value of humanism and, in general, of the principles of peace, of the coexistence of people for the common good. These are historically well-known. Do not confuse and try to make use of the death of a man who, as happened there, had to turn against our own government citizens who really have the problems they have, and others who would like the relations of the countries to be different. We, of course, as a government in charge, will behave with the responsibility we must have. So let's just keep this aside. They have no chance of becoming believers. There was something about Article 80 of the Constitution. No one has spoken of what Mrs Papanatsiou said about fiscal legitimacy. I assume the Prime Minister considered that he was speaking to old parliamentary men and women and that they know that. To be understood, what did he say? He said quite simply, according to Article 80 of the Constitution, no commitment is made in terms of wages, sponsorship, pensions and anything, if there is no organic law. He said that a court ruling under Article 95 obliges the administration to comply does not necessarily mean a commitment from the State budget. There must be organic law. That's what's going on with the budget. And that will happen when we have a definitive crisis on a matter, of course, in the way we are today legislating. It will also be provided for in the state budget. We will proceed, in accordance with the government's declarations, which are from the beginning of taking responsibility for the country's governance. It's not what's going on now. We said that as we move forward and achieve budgetary space and budgetary freedom, we will correct injustices. That's what happened here, and it wasn't just for those who filed lawsuits. It's done for everyone. We have said the same thing about other issues. As far as retrospectives are concerned, I will not repeat what I said this morning and that these were caused by the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK in the past few years. It's about 63.5 billion euros. There can be no talk of protectors of pensioners from those who have borne these heavy burdens. ‘Personal dismissal’. Where did you see that? "The poor priests persecuted by SYRIZA." "And what does SYRIZA care exactly?" I don't understand. First of all, does New Democracy and the Lord's right privilege have to do with the Church? So, we can't have an opinion on the ecclesiasticals? Do we have to make our cross first? It is the athemophobics and theobahites who usually make big crosses and see them around us. So it is forbidden that the government has an opinion, that the ministers should have thoughts, that parliamentarians should have positions and vote on issues relating to the Church, particularly when these have been raised in the Sanctuary Session? What caught you suddenly and cared about the sacred clergy and the poor priest? Of course, it will in no way be dismissal, first of all because it is within the fifteen points which have been raised in the Sacred Session. I don't know if the Holy Synod has decided. It is a dialogue between the government and the Church, as it should have done. There's respect. And here you are struggling the sanctity of symbols. You are intimidating what can cause fear and concern in the Christmas crew, because that is how you have learned, fearing to scare the world, because that is how the protectors of the Church always showed up, so that they can benefit - once again thieves here - from the whole world that you are trying to scare. There is no reason for this to happen, because first of all the priests will receive remuneration equivalent to those of the civil servants. It is also within the points of the agreement. So why do you say they're poor? Secondly, a priest’s dismissal is not made by law or by the secular system. Since you are well aware of the ecclesiasticals, it is established under normal law, namely by Church law. That is where a priest can be fired for what reasons. It's not because anyone comes down to his head and it's not about the state, the ordinary legislator. Everything you say not only is unequivocal, but is completely unfounded and legal and constitutional. But you say it because you have to present the image of a government that you protect priests, home, army, police, you are mothers and fathers and all of them are at risk from the government. You're telling them why you need to say that. For the special salary and pensions, the Minister of National Defence said so, and you should remember the debate that had taken place at the time. The debate on special wages included precisely all these positions to restore wages to a level of dignity and that happened. So the payroll is linked to the pension, the pension will monitor the payroll. There's not all that you're talking about. With this law, it's going to be one-off. Of course, it's going to be one-off. From a time to time, the payroll solves the issues. We closed a hole you left with. And this hole could not be linked to the insurance, because in the meantime all the pensions paid during this period and recalculated remain at the level of which they were paid, as they were designed. There has been no reduction in these pensions. There was therefore no reason to deal more with this issue. Of course, I conclude with that: All those who have a hereditary right obviously and the widows have a right to these amounts retroactively paid to collect the amount corresponding to them in succession. So there is nothing in this regard about the revulsion of many of the speech here that we have said that we are depriving the families of those who have, in the meantime, deprived of the amounts that have been involved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll start with the secondarys. Mr. Micopulus, do you want the floor or not? Anyone who wants to have the floor will have the floor. I suggest that we limit ourselves to four or five minutes so that we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u413	Everyone has the right to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u414	Anyone who wants to run out of time. I suggest it to finish. Of course you're entitled to seven and a half minutes. We're not talking about it, Mr. Shahinides. Mr. Micopulus, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u415	For a little while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u416	I give you typically five minutes and it is understood that there will be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we have mentioned in detail the provisions governing this draft law of the Ministry of Labour. If I may, a comment, I would like to make. I think it is inconceivable that we do not vote in favour of regulations and provisions which are subject to common sense, particularly when it comes to citizens of the European Union and too many of our fellow citizens who, with these provisions, enjoy insurance rights in any Member State of the European Union that are. Now, let's not be fooled. The largest extent of today's speeches in this particular amendment on retrospectives and less of the draft law. Speaking at the moment as a representative of a political system and not so much of a ruling party, I think it is wrong to try to invent excuses or arguments which are opposed to an action and an initiative, which obeys two sentences: firstly, it complies with judicial decisions and, secondly, it is a reality - it is trying and making the most of the financial margin, which was created following a very specific agreement a few months ago. Well, then, we did. We are giving money back to social categories and professional groups, which are unconstitutional and unfair, I would say, have been cut back in previous years. I therefore believe that this action is a moral one, first of all, and secondly the material right of people who have lifted a disproportionate burden. Are the only professional and social groups who have lifted this burden these years? No, of course not. There are many more people who still have to be justified, and we have to tell him the truth. Who is she? As long as there are budgetary margins and as long as we broaden them, the more injustices will be restored. This is where the question of political will arises. One final comment I would like to make on the arguments I have heard today, which have really saddened me, regarding the agreement between the Greek State and the Church. I have two things to answer. We got two wins. One is a substance and one is regular. What's the tactical victory? That this idea is slowing down that the Left in general cannot be reconciled with the church space and that the ecclesiastical area is a privileged area of the conservative party. That logic is unstoppable. And we are dealing with and in terms of substance we are approaching a matter which is half a century unresolved, but we also show due attention and respect in an area of ecclesiastical, which is that the truth is that it has shaped the naturality and profile of the Greek state. That is the truth and we recognise it and in terms of seriousness we are approaching another issue which it has been a year ago. That is the reality, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. Mrs Marku has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u419	Let me begin and say to Mr Manda: The Members of the New Democracy, Mr Manda, are not in panic, they are neither extinct nor salts and they are here and act as branchers, such as SYRIZA Members. They have taken the floor since the morning seventeen MPs in contrast to the SYRIZA MPs who have not taken the floor. Take care of what you're saying. The pragmy goes on. We have seen a parade of ministers since this morning, but not a Member of the government - why, therefore? - to convince us that SYRIZA has always wanted to return the retrospectives to the uniforms and to the other classes of the special payroll. Then why in 2014 - to tell us - Mr Manda, when the Samara - Venizelos government brought the provision for the payment of 50% of the retrospectives, you did not vote for it? You were here and you said 'there'. Suddenly you got a sensitivity. Why four years now that there have been greater budgetary margins, have you not implemented judicial decisions, and now suddenly you consider it to be a alleged and moral obligation? For example, why have you not included the officials and pensioners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the excuse - as you say - that they have not applied to justice, even though they have suffered reductions? Unlike, of course, you are including the artistic staff of the orchestras, who, if I understood correctly, by Mrs Zorba, are also not covered by a judicial decision. Why such selectivity and such sensitivity? What's going on? On the amendments now: For shellfish you could move in the right direction. We'd like you to see some improvements to give us some clarifications. Firstly, if fishing vessels can be added to the shellfish, sponges and smugglers for any professional vessels that work with autonomous submarine devices and why they have not been added. We would also like you to clarify how you will ensure that there is no problem and tell us if a new regulation is required after 31-7-2019. Finally, we should not - at least we believe - be a apprenticeship diver. It must have gone through the apprenticeship stage. We would also like some responses to these issues in order to decide whether to vote in favour of the provision. As for the rest of the bill, although, of course, we did not receive a reply from Mr Petropoulos to the questions we have raised, we are positive about the first eight articles on the transposition of the directive. We are also glad to see you include widows and orphans after the towels of Mr. Katrugalos's law. You can also tell us what will happen and what is going to happen to those in the military higher education schools, because they are excluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. Mr Constantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, integrating the directive into the Greek legal order we have analysed our position in detail. In short, I say that the arrangements envisaged are particularly important at this time when our country is experiencing a modern wave of immigration, as they provide the necessary - fundamental, I would say - protection for migrants within the European Union. With regard to the amendment on retrospectives for uniforms and payrollers, I also stressed in my previous position that we are of course in favour of payment of retrospectives to beneficiaries. But invoke the decisions of the TEI, without actually implementing them and arbitrarily limiting the period of retrospectives in 2016. Why? In order to defend the Katorugalou law, the law whose problems we have repeatedly stressed and the injustices it creates, the law that must be abolished, the law that causes tsunami - I would say - judicial decisions, without any strategy to address them. Mr Minister, as regards Article 6 of the amendment, we disagree with you because you are cutting off the way for other pensioners to claim what is due to them in this article. You are ignoring the decision of the board and enclaving the pensioners. We do not agree and agree and do not vote for Article 6 of the amendment, namely the abolition of the possibility for other pensioners to claim retroactively what is due to them. That is why, Minister, we call on you to separate Article 6 from the amendment. However, if you do not, we, because we will vote for the amendment, will then table an amendment for the abolition of this painful article, Article 6. To conclude, I would like to refer to the law of Katrugalou. I would say, Minister, that for you it is a convenient vehicle to proceed to negotiations with the partners. But, in essence, you too are degrading him and you are actually admitting his inadequacy with the amendments you bring to every bill. However, you continue to argue that you have made the big incision to insurance, that you have made the big insurance reform. But here they come and answer you by the partners, revealing your strategy, when they say it was your decision to cut pensions. And while you have signed your signatures to cut old and new pensions, even widow's pensions, you come today and promise they won't cut off. And this as an ace in the sleeve for the election. But, Minister, what you do not realize is that it is not enough not to cut pensions to change the climate in society, because there is, in memory of all, the granting of public property for ninety years, the increase - instead of the abolition - of HPAI, the tradition of foreign funds, as you said, even the first home, leading thousands of families to the street. Minister, you are four years old, you are not promoting the waste water treatment processes, and at the same time you are talking about development with unfulfilled promise of productive reconstruction. It must now be made clear to everyone that if we do not produce wealth, we have nothing to redistribute. So we need to promote the country's productive reconstruction, start developments for wealth production, which we will rightly redistribute to the citizens. Finally, I would like to return to the Katraugalu Act and the major issue that has arisen with the retrospectives of pensions. We call on you to leave the government's consciousness to cause confusion and to tell the pensioners who are entitled, what they will get and when they will get them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Undersecretary said that we are provoking the abolition of the Katrugalos law. The question is to set up an insurance framework whose proper and socially fair implementation will not be judged either in the amendments which the government will bring or in the courts. These ideological obsessions brought our country to the edge of the cliff, to the poverty of society. We need two, three areas of policy to qualify for political consensus. Clearly it will be painful, due to ideological and historical differences in the parties, but we must do so responsibly and in a documented way and on the basis of up-to-date proportionate studies. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for every three minutes to change the insurance policy and for the worker or retired person to be at the moment in the planning of his or her life. Finally, what we have to do is find solutions for these new children who are watching us from the gallery, for these new children, as I said in my prology, who left Greece - with Brain Drain - and found abroad. We owe them, ladies and gentlemen, a return ticket, a ticket that will ensure a sustainable job and quality of life in our country. We owe them solutions, and we have to find them. As far as the directive is concerned, both in committee and in my prototype, I said that we are voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how 50 students and students and eight trainers from the 2nd Trikalon Municipal School and the 16th Trikalon Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for five minutes. If you need more time, there will be relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform the House that in the exodus of the new martyr Konstantinos Katsifa, they attended the Golden Dawn, representing Secretary General Nikolaos Michaloliakos and the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, two Members of the Greek Parliament of the Golden Dawn and one Member of the Golden Dawn, together with a stepping-up of competitors, to honor the unjustly murdered Constantine Katsifa. Mr President, a moment ago Parliamentary representative referred to something which unfortunately is not the case. And I say 'happily' because, unfortunately, this is not the case. He said that he was included in this draft law, with this amendment, all the beneficiaries of the special payrolls and that by Christmas all the beneficiaries will get the retrospectives. This is where the Minister should give us his lights and explain it to us - I want to believe that it is really an omission from your staff - not to be included in this amendment under a general number of 1796 and a specialist forensics who are also part of the special salary. In fact, I would mention and inform the House that the financial burden would be minimal, because it concerns twenty-four or twenty-five people. From the beginning of the debate, Minister, you could bring in the present draft law a legislative improvement, which would include them. There was time to do so, I believe. I sincerely believe that it was just an omission, unless this omission is about one of the coroners being a member of the Greek Parliament and the Golden Dawn. But here, Minister, there is another issue. Another amendment you presented to interested parties on this amendment 1796/141 and another you brought to plenary today. At least that is what all the interested parties have told us. There is no mention anywhere in this amendment - and here is the answer to the second point raised by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman regarding the fact that all retrospectives will have been collected by Christmas, which is why I said, unfortunately, that it is not the case - about what will happen to those who have regulated their debts. There's nowhere to be mentioned about the irreconcilable, there's no mention of the non-reconciliation. Constitutionally, it is guaranteed to make a set-aside. You could, and, as you usually do, overlook, do the wrong eyes, and there is an irresponsible for people who will benefit from this amendment. However, the questions which arise are as follows: With the payment of the retrospectives, will the interest on the relevant period of time on each sector be reimbursed? Also, what will happen from now on, Minister? Those who are later than the dates set out in the amendment, should they, in their turn, move legally in order to be justified? Is that going to happen? Why don't you just abolish Katrugalo's infamous law? There was a mention by the Prime Minister himself at today's sitting. He said it was the first of a series of meetings to follow in plenary and to vote for positive measures. In other words, the Prime Minister today came to the plenary and made it clear that what has been voted on so far had absolutely nothing positive for the Greek people. And the Minister of National Defence told us that he restored an injustice, returning the money - pay attention to exactly what he said, I am conveying exactly what the Minister said - which had been stolen from the government in 2012. Did it really take you six years to understand that theft? Today have you discovered, or are you just obliged, Minister, to apply a ruling of a supreme court in Greece? Also reported were the Minister of National Defence to pay 50% of the illegally detained, stolen as he claimed. But here, what exactly is going on? Why is 50% of these stolen, as the Minister said? Your co-government, what part does it finally play? Why don't you all pay the debts? What's going on? According to the Minister, are you occult? Since you admit that money is a product of theft, are you accomplices? And since you told us that this money was stolen, what about, Minister, the thieves? Will there be responsibilities and sanctions? Unfortunately, your Government has been urging itself in the exercise of a subsidy policy. Money lost by many Greek citizens on your day and your predecessors, you are coming with amendments to restore them. The self-evident and fair are presented to us as benefits and join a series of positive measures, as the Prime Minister himself said. For this amendment, which also overshadowed this draft law, a series of positions has been made by several ministers and Ministers to support it. I'm going to stand on one of them at Mr. Santorini's place. Mr Santorinios referred to the border region allowance. I would like to inform him, therefore, that he may also be missed by him - and rather very selectively, you are escaping things in here - that this allowance has been cut too many times by the Armed Forces. It's been cut and you've given it for illegal immigrants. The fun is that when this allowance is cut off, for example, in March and you give it back to them in September, there is no payment retroactively. This has the ability to use the Ministry according to the beam as it suits them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. Mr Katsotis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister, several ministers and MPs have attempted to strengthen the new memorial era, fair growth, that the economy is going high and that the needs of the workers and the retired, the people are at the same time met. Everyone said that today the 'right to act' principle is being made, with the amendment and that others will follow for the implementation of the IGC announcements, as the Prime Minister noted, by sending a message that the surplus is not at risk of paying part of the retrospectives. It has been said that we are coming out of the memorials, that we have come back to normality, and so forth, to create a climate of waiting and waiting. What does all this mean to workers and the people? What will change his life? Will wages and pensions increase? Will taxes be abolished? Are the implementing laws that broke the majority of the people, yes or no? Remains the tax payroll, yes or no? They've been unpaid for over five months, yes or no? Were the workers, the pensioners, the people? The other day, didn't you turn Brutsi into a government, making your property? Didn't you refuse to reinstate the minimum wage to 751 euros? Didn't you choose to abolish the collective bargaining, too? Didn't you choose the minimum wage to be determined by the Minister of Labour with criteria hostile to their workers and their needs, with criteria ensuring profitability, as reflected in the law? Didn't you, gentlemen, four years now, the underprivileged wage, the work of young boys and girls with 200 and 300 euros a month? Did you abolish the protection of the main residence from the auction, yes or no? The Vice-President of the Government said yesterday that this must be abolished because it was the time of the crisis. Now what do you think? You're talking about confiscations, auctioning first home. Have you promoted the reintroduction of collective agreements to levels before the end of the reinvigoration? Of course not. Did you, yes or no, break down the pensions with the Katorugalu? Didn't you disappear the subsidiary? Didn't you abolish the C.E.R.D.? Didn't you drastically reduce the single? Why are pensioners on the way? Why don't they have what to do? Didn't you condemn a large number of pensioners living with pensions of 400 and 500 euros? Didn't you condemn those who have been widowed to live without a pension or 50% instead of 70% for those who are entitled to it so far? Do you not maintain the reductions in compensation by facilitating the redundancies of workers with rights and the recruitment of new subsidised and flexible forms? Don't you keep the test period in one year of the two months that it was? What employment relationships do you restore? Don't you codify Labour Law, incorporating all the overthrows that have taken place in all three Memorandums so far? Recently the elements of the "ERGAN" that prove the working jungle, the increasing flexibility, with intakes in the majority of them in various forms, old and new, such as "the non-real employment contract", as the employers have described the jungle. The list has no end. The temptation is the reduction of workers' right to use the strike weapon, so that we do not go back to the past, because all these were pathogens of the past, as you said, and as the Prime Minister pointed out. All that is maintained and strengthened by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, results in some five million euros, according to official figures, living below the poverty line. That's normality. This is the 'right to act' with your policy. This is not, as the Prime Minister has said, 'a high economy with society standing up', but with society being cracked and the capitalist economy up. And the higher the capitalist economy, the more the workers, the majority of the people will fight. In this strategy you all meet, in satisfying claims to secure cheap labour, in strengthening the profitability and competitiveness of capital. You are not, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the smallest evil you are presenting. You support barbarism at the expense of many, modernising for the benefit of big capital. The New Democracy is not being confronted by workers. They are not asking for their demands to be met. Their fight is about who made judicial decisions and who did not, i.e. if they gave 50% and today's moral obligation is, he says, part of the retrospectives. The Prime Minister's point of view is that it is not a legal obligation, but a moral one, that all pensioners who run for lawyers should listen to them, who are conspiring to make applications for their retrospectives. We tell them that only their struggle, their participation will oblige them. Only the conspiracy with the JRC can change, overthrow the barbaric, ruthless attack that will continue. The JRC is taking the lead in the movement in order to organize races to claim the losses that all governments have caused during the years of the crisis for the workers, for the retired public-private sector. The general strike on 28 November but also on 14 was decided under the pressure of primary and secondary organizations. It has requests to cover losses, increases in wages and pensions, downward tax, no one's auctioning first home, 751 lower wages, reinstatement of collective agreements. We call for massive universalisation, for everything to die, for the victims of capital and government to speak. The Minister presented the amendment as a matter of political will or of 'ethical obligation', as the Prime Minister said. So, Minister, what does it mean that you do not retroactively give back to the other private pensioners who claim them in all ways? It means that for all of them you don't have the political will. If you had it, you would also have voted for our amendment on the non-cutting of personal differences or you would have brought it. You hide it, you tell them one another, you create confusion about your intentions. However, the so-called budget area is being used for the stirring of poverty, for the overcrowded bone of predators to lick the majority of the people. It is not to cover losses, but to new privileges, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, warm money for investment in multinationals, business groups. The JRC has asked - and it is still asking now - for Article 6(3) to be withdrawn, because it is a matter of creating problems in claiming retroactive pensions. We will continue this intervention in order to prevent any attempt to claim the rights of workers and pensioners. We shall vote on the amendment to get the employees and pensioners this one-off, which is part of their claims. For once, we say that, as a JRC, we will continue to work together with the workers and pensioners to claim their rights. With the amendment you celebrate, trying to present reality with your head down. You don't, gentlemen, make any provision. You were obliged by the struggles and court decisions to give a party back. That's it. The rest is fairy tales. Finally, on the subject of the directive, the aim of the directive is to strengthen the third pillar of insurance against state insurance, make it more attractive to customers with supposedly safeguarding their rights. A tool is in the hands of business groups in insurance to increase their clientele. The aim is to further strengthen this pillar of insurance, mainly aimed at those who have high wages and can pay. You are committed to serving this type of insurance that workers will know what they will pay and not what they will get. The directive serves this claim. That is why we are voting 'no' on the principle and on the articles. Now, we have said a lot about the constitutional review. Especially with regard to relations between the Church and the State, we have to say that it is an overtime issue - which was solved a number of years ago - of the total separation of the State - Church, annulled by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Its position was the economic agreement on the use of church property, with a logic of 50-50, win-win, with the creation of the TIAD-type fund. The JRC’s position for full separation of State - Church does not mean that we do not fully respect the people’s faith and their manifestations of worship. We will insist on this line. For Amendment No 1795 we are voting on'represents', which concerns shellfish, because we believe it converts the observer in check. With this amendment, the monitor will replace a member of the same crew who will simply hold a diver licence or a apprenticeship diver. We believe that this does not solve the problem. That is why we are voting 'at present'. On the amendment tabled by the Minister that we have not taken a position on the issue of municipal businesses, we believe that this is a serious matter. Of course, it exempts the management of those who were in the municipal company, but it carries all this responsibility to the municipal council, and we believe it is a matter. That is why we are voting 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor. Mr. Comrade, I'll give you five minutes. From there on, if you run out of time and want more, there is relative tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. Some ten days ago, a poll came out of a poll called "MARC". He gave eleven units of difference. Again, because the polls used to make a 20-mile difference. I want to remind you of something, because some of us have the insistence of looking for them a little bit. This company, the trustworthy company "Marc", the twenty-two point difference in an easy poll - which was for the referendum, which was "yes - no" - was seen at the limits of the statistical error, around 3 to 3,2 points. The same company in the last September 2015 elections to the Independent Greeks had them at very small percentages, but we are used to them, and SYRIZA had him ten units down. The about 36% he took saw it at 26%. And even the newspaper that ordered this poll, the "CARBON THEM", look to see how many millions he was getting from the banks at the time and - oh of the miracle - how much money he was making from the CIF. I'm saying that because relying on fake corporations and being excited and thinking that you did something is your right, but reality - you know - it's tough. I don't want to stay in the old days in my dentistry. I just want to remind you of a few things. Henry Dunn, about which there was a lot of talk, how was he deceived? How was a hospital deceived, how did it become a premeditated crime that literally denounced a jewelry, and this not with my own words, but with the ones of George Surla? He'll be a public institution and he'll come back as he was before, serve about and act like a public institution. "Complete character" almost means that. I'm telling you the news because it's already under way. There is an unlimited need for thirty - eight beds in intensive care units and a daily feeling of it. I'm telling you what this government is doing now. I still want to remind those who haven't figured out that a lake of dried up, Carla, is becoming a lake again. I still want to remind you that we recently passed a water bill. Many are talking about the islands of Greece, about the lengthening of the tourist season. And that's what's become of reality. I would also like to remind you that something is changing in general. I don't want to stick to the numbers, which really get tired. However, we must not forget that at global level Greece's economy is good. I'm not saying too much. It is good, and that is why there has been no remarks in the budget, and in another six or seven countries. Already the country, after many years, has been moving towards growth. There is no deficit somewhere at 15%, like 2009. There is a small, but there is a surplus. Unemployment - I say it to hear this - is great, but it fell around eight points. He was taken about 27.5%, and right now he broke the 19% dam. It's still high, but the effort is done. I took out a piece of paper here in my prototype, published by the 'DIE WELT'. Where were the stacks going back to the country then? Eight hundred billion writes 'DIE WELT', the conservative newspaper, and almost made an observation and has done well. Look at what economic paradises, what banks took this money, said in 2015, "DIE WELT". And that's not going to offshore, they don't go to strange accounts, they don't go to strange economic paradises - not to scaffold again - they're sharing. The country went through a huge adventure. It came out of the memorials. This government found it in the memoirs. With the gun on the head, why did we have to go to the junk with the 50 billion then given to us by Mr Shoeble, we said: 'No, we will continue'. Yeah, blackmail was the third memorial. We fought it. We took the country off. It was not our choice and it was a very clear view a few months later, after we said "yes, we will go to the third memorandum", we went to elections and asked the Greek citizen "whoever you want to manage". Where is the excesses, the charges, 'the worst government', 'Go away, you do', I can't understand. I would like to end by reminding you of the eleven commitments made by the Prime Minister in Belgium, which we usually know very well that everyone can say what they want. Oh, no. It's not like everyone says what they want. I would like to remind you again that the reduction of the EMS will be done. The reduction in the insurance contributions of free professionals with income from EUR 7,000 and over will be done. The reduction of 4% of corporate taxation from 29% to 25% will be done without excess. Much of this is done gradually, not done automatically. The rental subsidy in amounts of between EUR seventy and two hundred, involving more than 200,000 maybe 300,000 families, will be done. The strengthening and permanentization of the "Help at Home" programme - listen to this, because the word social state has been lost from this reality - for the elderly and the disabled by recruiting three thousand permanent skilled personnel. Strengthening special treatment in children with special skills with four and a half thousand teachers will be done. The abolition of trade tax for cooperatives, farmers and unemployed businesses will be done. The grant of the total insurance contributions for young workers - take note of this - up to twenty-five years, that is to say, incentives to strike unemployment and more in the private sector with a two-year horizon. The change in VAT rates by two points, 24% to 22% and 13% to 12% will take place. The start of procedures for increasing the minimum wage and abolishing the subordinate is already under way. Of course, today the payment of all retrospectives to the five, six accusations that I do not yet want to repeat. The most important of all, and I want it to be heard, is that - so risky, so excessive, unbelievable risks from morning to night - the first 10 days of December - should be heard of this - the legislation which provides for the abolition of personal differences will be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u429	I shall conclude, Mr President. One and a half million retired people who are concerned about knowing that they are not in danger. And, unfortunately, you are obliged - because these are not words, they are legislative regulations, they are twenty-three in November and two in December - three in December, between which there is no reduction in the minimum wage - no matter what you say - as many krone as fears - to vote on them one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Mavrotas has the floor and the Minister will be closed to move on to the vote. There you go, Mr. Colleague, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. I won't even need five minutes. I'll be quite a lacquer. Potami is positive in incorporating the Mobility Directive. We believe that this is a positive adaptation to modern conditions and to our country. I shall also refer to the amendments. We are also positive in the amendment to the implementation of the decision of the Council of State on retroactive measures. The communal and communal parade, however, which took place here today in the House by the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the State Secretarys, we do not think it was necessary, because this is how you scratch wounds, in fact, to those from whom these excesses now share. It is important that we give not only the surpluses and communication, as has happened today, but also the essential sizes of the economy. Today, the Commission substantially adapted the country's growth rate downwards, took him to 2%. I remember putting 2.5% in the 2017 budget for 2018. That is what we really should be concerned about, for example, the fact that 11% of the investments that we planned for 2018, now in the preliminary draft, which is 0.8%, i.e. over eleven - twelve times lower. This is the agenda we should talk about in the next period. We will have all the time to talk about this in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. He was indeed a lacon, as he said. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u433	First of all, in view of the very strong discussions on other issues, I have wronged the basic draft law that has been introduced to incorporate the directive on occupational insurance funds. To explain, to know what we're talking about, it's about eighteen and a half thousand workers in our country. These are the professional funds. It's fourteen business funds, all of it. However, what we achieve by this provision is, above all, the Greeks who work in other countries, because that is where these kinds of professional funds are very widespread, not to lose their rights. The purpose of this directive in the existing functions of the occupational insurance funds is to ensure the rights of insured persons. So keeping the money they have paid and not losing because they have changed their jobs or have left the place where they were insured is a positive protection measure. Of course, all these measures aimed at improving the functioning of the professional funds, as regards the rights of insured persons, obviously do not meet the needs of insurance. We have no different view here, and for that reason, as far as the professional funds are concerned, have not given the priority that other political areas give them. We will not, however, prevent the possibility of many professional sites which have the potential to make use of this tool. That is why I have said this in committee, and we have the case of seafarers who, as structured by shipping worldwide, are in real difficulty because the seafarer is employed in any port around the globe. There really is Naval Law, which operates in a way of dissociating the work of seafarers. We could make use here, for example for seafarers, of such a fund, which I think could cover such needs for work cases that do not have the characteristics of permanent and stable employment locally. Of course, it is also possible, with a collective agreement, to agree - the type is always notable for the establishment of a occupational insurance fund - the operation of such funds. I think that only these positive elements contained in this directive are enough to see their introduction into and their introduction into national law from a positive point of view. I think that, after what I have heard, I also need to return to a few basic things, mainly so that people can hear and be informed. These retrospectives that we are voting on today do not in any way affect the special salary - they are emphasised in every provision of the relevant amendment - because the special salary has already formed another level of wage. And it is not paradoxical that, when all these reductions in previous years had occurred, they had created a situation not corresponding to the value of work given to some sectors, but a general levelling-up. Because this was the idea of previous governments, with general and horizontal cuts to save money rather than an approach to the specificity of every job and the corresponding value to be valued in the wage bill. That was the special payroll. It is therefore in no way affected by the special salary. And the effect on pensions is also not affected. The Unified Social Security Institution exists and operates on the basis of contributions paid on net income. And it cannot cause any problem either for the clergy who are retired by the ECA and will continue to retire in the future by the ECA. There is no differentiation for anyone. The corresponding effect of the special categories, to which special wages refer, is now reflected in the pensions after the special salary. Why don't we give the retroactives from the judgments given in the first instance? It concerns the proposal made by all the wings to pay all retrospectively, because some of the protagonists considered that retroactive action should be given to everyone, regardless of whether they had filed complaints. If the invitation to us is to respect the decision of the Council of State, the answer is that that is what is happening. Because the Council of State has imposed a restriction on the fact that it cannot extend its decision to those who had not filed complaints. So until this issue has been resolved - because other issues relating to the European Convention on Human Rights have been raised, which must become a new crisis - the whole problem will be tackled in the context of the constitutional requirements, which we should all know - that wages, pensions, sponsorships or remuneration are not included in the State budget, nor are they provided without organic or other law. And that makes sense. That's what the Constitution says in Article 80. After the disputes in the courts have been judged and after the courts have come to an end in their final and final judgment, then we will really see what the financial costs are and how they can be addressed in the context - what Mrs Papanatziou said - of budgetary legitimacy. It's exactly Article 80. It can't be done differently. It must be within the constitutional framework. The Single Institution for Social Security is a vehicle that retains the rights to sustainable insurance for all citizens. And that should be very well thought out by all the Parliamentary wings. Because what comes as the intention of replacing Law4387 is the proposal that the New Democracy has already put forward as a successor. In other words, there is a pillar, the main pension and the reduction of the contribution from 20% to 15%. This means 2.5 billion budget deficits and a deficit for the ECA. So that means reducing pensions from day one. The conversion of the subsidiary, which is currently in the first pillar and is a public insurance body, to a private subsidiary, which each insured person optionally chooses to go either to a private company or to another form and in another form will effectively bring the subsidiary to an end. There will be a complete disappearance of insurance funds. Because the example is, I have told the National Bank that Mr Constantopoulos was saying to take care of it. Go out and say about this New Democracy programme. To such a problem will lead the whole country if we follow this proposal that the New Democracy promises as a threat to the future. And anyway, we apologise for what we do. We have fully and fully documented all the achievements of the Single Institution for Social Security in the period of almost two years. The major deficits have arisen from the past. 96.7% of the debt comes from the old provisions. We cannot even hear the system coming back to its old structure today, i.e. three funds or any other shapes that are heard lately. And I do not think that there will be a proposal that can replace this sustainability perspective that has been guaranteed for the ECA on the basis of the law that everyone puts from the right and from the left. I think it is necessary for all the institutions to see it and for us to have a debate very briefly in the committee concerned, in order to provide precisely all the evidence that this perspective is the only sustainable prospect that needs to be supported for the country's future and for development. Because social security is part of development. In the previous period, from 2011 onwards, the padlocks were constantly falling precisely because this situation existed in the economy. The major burdens of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship were unresolved. At least 740 million of the contributions have been reduced during the period from January 2017 until now by the small and medium-sized entrepreneurial enterprise only by replacing the contribution system from the inflexible scales in the calculation of the net income contribution. Let us look at these, because it is a great responsibility for everyone what it is worth supporting in the future and to speak freely and openly to the Greek people about the prospects that exist with regard to the choices that are really put seriously, but also with regard to the numbers being measured in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Minister Petropoulos. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers" as in force on 6-11-2018: Criminal forensics regarding the Minister of National Defence Panagiotis Kammenos. Criminal proceedings concerning former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Criminal proceedings concerning former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Criminal case law concerning Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras and former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias and criminal case law concerning Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras and former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates forty-two students and students and three educational escorts from the 7th Volos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is hereby concluded: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for the promotion of the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014) and other provisions’. We are voting on the principle, on the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eight articles, three amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Every time on the screen there are up to four articles to be voted on and to vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen, the so-called'scroll down'. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, nominees and all and after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check or revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, of course, please ask the Bureau to assist you with their help. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u435	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u436	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014) and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u437	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for the promotion of the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u438	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u439	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the Minutes of Monday, October 1st 2018 (morning) and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u440	The Minutes of Monday, 1 October 2018 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-08-S1-commons.u441	With the consent of the House at 19.52 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 9 November 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
