ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 4-7-2018, the minutes of the PMI meeting of Wednesday, 4 July 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws were confirmed by the Bureau:]] 1. Consistency of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on Multinational Cooperation for Directed Precision Air - Territory, as well as the impending 1 Amendment thereto and other provisions.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Determination of the technical arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal, as regards the Battle Formation, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal’) Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 9 July 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1913/3-7-2018 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health, on "Serious shortages in medical staff in the Prefecture of Halkidiki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1910/2-7-2018 topical question by MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Pediatric Clinic GN Carditsa”. 3. The 1916/3-7-2018 topical question by Congressman I'Thessalonica, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1911/2-7-2018 topical question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Ministry of Finance observes the contract with the investment bank of Rothschild". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1886-26-2018 topical question by Independent MEP Mr. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Kallichadsis - Koudras - Bobolas", on the AKTOR group and the proposed "ELLAKOPOR". Why do you pretend to be deaf and blind and allow the Securities and Market Commission not to protect shareholders, investors, banks and ultimately the public interest?' 3. The Question No 1824/18-6-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr.Kissos Economou to the Minister of Health on the subject: ‘The government's failure leads to a health bomb because of HIV’. 4. The 1884-26-2018 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unfavourable developments regarding the Greek industry of Zacharis". 5. The 1861-25-2018 topical question by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An unjustified increase in objective values in Purple and Allied Volos". 6. The 1855-25-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to restore injustice against the owners of the refugee camps, which are called on to pay exterminated URPHIA". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1729/30-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forum capacity of the Greeks". 8. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 9. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 10. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 11. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 5420/25/2018 by the Independent MEP Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Buy of ready-to-market weapon systems". I would also like to inform the House that the Minister of Interior, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economics and Energy, have tabled a draft law on "Reforming the institutional framework of Local Government - Enlargement of the Democracy and Social Solidarity" - Reinforcement of the Structural Funds and the Development of the Structural Funds. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER REQUIREMENTS Three topical and urgent questions will be discussed in this sitting. In order to release the Minister of State, Mr Apostolos, who will reply, we begin with the second question under number 1903/28-6-2018 of the first cycle of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct need to include now the extensions of the Incubator to Ermionida and Fichtia - Mycenes - Monastery in measure 4.3.1 of the Rural Development Programme (PAA)". Mr. Manatis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have often discussed in this Chamber the great work, the work of breath for Argolida, the irrigation work of the Anavalus, and I hope that we will have some positive developments today. In April of this year, you announced measure 4.3.1. to incorporate the country's major energy projects into this measure. The question I have submitted to you concerns the extension of the network of the Anavalos project to two areas suffering from enormous drought. One area is Fichtia - Mycenes - Monasteraki and the second area is the area of Ermionida. In the first case, the study had already been completed in January 2015. In fact, the responsible agency, yours, had then estimated that the project's timetable was 24 months and in the context of the pre-authorised tender procedure that had taken place in 2015, this total budget project 7,896,600 euros had full maturity to be declared. Therefore, we should be talking today about a project that would already be in operation. But even now, just to join and be proclaimed, I think it is very important. The same as outstanding and priority work also applies to the work of extending the Analipla to Ermionida, a project completely mature studies since January 2015, a total budget of 38.5m euros, which will solve the irrigation problem once and for all, but also the water problem of Ermionida. I shall end by saying in my prototype that we know very well that the problem of drought is afflicting Greece, but especially in Argolida, it has been disastrous, and that is why it is a matter of immediate priority that the network of the Anadubus should be extended to these two regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, as you said, in April 2018, this call was issued by the Ministry of Rural Development. You know that this action is financed by 100% by the European Commission and by the Greek State. The total budget we have is EUR 180,000,000. The final date for submissions of requests shall be 31 August 2018. From that date on, the results will of course begin to be announced. Requests have been submitted. We have chosen this process. From the Peloponnese Regional Government, as from other regions, requests were made and even before this measure was called for, because we particularly wanted these requests to be examined, namely to see whether the studies submitted have typically and essentially the necessary documentation to enable them to be examined. We wanted them not to stay in the drawer, because when the request procedure was over, we wanted to be ready to look at the requests on the basis of the criteria that already exist. As you can see, the demands are far more than the possibilities we have. However, the specific work you mention, "Improvement of irrigation water transport projects from the Anavalou networks to Kossopodi, Mycenas etc.", is a budget of 7,896,000 euros. It has been guaranteed funding because it is a sub-project of the measure ‘Transport and distribution of irrigation water by the Networks of Incubators, etc.’ and is already part of measure 4.3.1 of the Rural Development Programme. Of course, as you understand, his tender could not be made on the basis of the figures, the 2015 study. It had to be updated. The Regional Administration of Peloponnese was informed in February 2018. At the beginning of June 2018, the relevant update was submitted by the corresponding Directorate for Technical Works of the Regional Government of the Peloponnese, but technical deficiencies were found there which make it impossible at the moment to tender the project. That is why we are telling us that when the update comes, then certainly in a consultation with them - as we have good cooperation with the Regional Government - we will be able to deal with all the shortcomings in dealing with them as quickly as possible, so that we can proceed directly with the tendering procedures. There couldn't be a auction. The Regional Government poorly says that, as it had sent the first time, a tender could be made. At least that's what the services say. But I don't think we have any problem. Time will be renewed. I repeat that it will be done in consultation with them. It is a project coming from the previous Programme for Rural Development and must certainly be completed. I will speak to you in my dentistry, since I have exhausted the time of prototype. I will just say that there too, because there is the notion of complementarity for the specific project concerning the transfer and distribution to the Municipality of Ermionida, it is a budget project of 35 million. It goes beyond our limits, but we will definitely see it in consultation with the Ministry of Infrastructure. We believe that this has an ex ante increased score and we believe that through the complementarity that I have told you, when we are ready and for this project, there will be funding for this. We, at least, on the part of the Ministry of Rural Development, will get rid of all the possibilities. In terms of amounts, it is clear from our own possibilities, but we will work towards complementarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we usually disagree in our parliamentary debates, and indeed these disagreements are very often in extremely high tones. I am pleased that today, exceptionally, we will be able to discuss very mild and calmly, because you have indeed told us good news about Argolida. I sum up what has been perceived by your first position. The work of expanding the Touch in Fichtia - Mycenes - Monastery is ready for auction. There are some small technical details coming out, which I imagine in a very few weeks' time, that will regulate the services of the Ministry, with the services of the region. Therefore, the work and timetable for the 24 months will be called for, and I understand that you will do so even less so that it is done as soon as possible. For the second project, the task of extending to Ermionida, I am also pleased that the services of the Ministry, as well as you personally as political leader, recognise that the complementarity of the work with the previous and already implemented projects, gives an important lead in order to do so. If I can summarise what I understand from your first position, then the work to Fichia - Mycenaeans - Monastery begins immediately and will therefore be carried out in a short time. The task of extending to Ermionidas is also to the Ministry's political and technical priority. Therefore, in order to respond to your dentext, we can send the positive message to the Argolida farmers that these two projects, because they just come to complete the projects that started in 2011 and concerned the start of the Annalou in other areas of Argolida, have a comparative advantage over the rest of Greece. It is precisely this complementarity that gives them the great advantage to be a priority of the Ministry. Please answer your dentistry if it is the way I described it earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u8	In such projects, integration and complementarity are always essential elements, so that we can actually do the projects efficiently, because the needs in the irrigation area are known and I think they are great. I would like to say to you again that consensus and consensus - particularly in the rural area, let alone when we have resources, the only ones we have, which come within the framework of the common agricultural policy - certainly need it. We also need to get away from this micro-political tension, which is often done for communication reasons. We're from the Ministry's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u9	I guess it's not a personal reference to me, it's a general placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u10	No, I'm generally talking. We're in such a mood. You will see it tomorrow morning, when we have the Committee on Production and we may take into account all this Parliament where we are in the debate that is taking place at this time on the new CAP and after 2020, where there are too many issues that need consensus. The more united we are, especially in such matters, the better, I think, we bring results and that is what the rural area needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the second time question, we should read out some of the hindrances. The first under number 1909/2-7-2018, a topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Moutarakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Recalculation of pensions under Law4387/2016’, will not be discussed after a Minister of State's understanding with MP. The first one under number 1908/2-7-2018, a top question for the first cycle of MP Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The operation of archaeological sites and museums in the middle of summer tourist season", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Konstantinos Hiras, on the grounds of misappropriated obligations. Also, the second question under number 1906/29-6-2018 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Electronic ticket: Marmota's Day", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Konstantinos Army, on the grounds of irresponsible obligations. The fifth question under number 1895-27-2018, the first-round question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and the Athens Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the area of Mars is at a marginal point", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Nicholas Toska, on the grounds of irresponsible obligations. The seventh question, number 1836/19-6-2018, topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "SYRIZA MP appears as a Macedonian with an appeal against Greece", will not be debated due to misinterpretations of Mr. Amanatidis. Finally, the third, with number 1914/3-7-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Recognition by the public of the pre-service which has been made available in the private sector", will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of Ms. Olga Gerovasili at the National Centre for Public Administration. The rest of the hustles, I'll read them later. Now we will discuss the fourth question with number 1915/3-7-2018 for the first time in the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the conversion of the 23 hydronomists of EKDAP SA. in indefinite time and incorporation into the Staff Regulations and Collective Work Agreements (VA). The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are being watched by the U.S. workers and would like today to hear the final solution to their problem, which has caused them insecurity for several months now, because it is from one court to another, from one court to the other, even though the judgements of the courts are irrevocable and we are talking about decisions of the Ice Bay House, and even unanimous. Although these workers have successfully completed the test time envisaged, which is seven months, by L.3429/2005, for the respective call for the SAAP competition in 2009 - we have been talking for seven years back, because since 2016 the problems have begun - and while there have already been twenty-two months of workers' work, the administration appointed by the company with various terminology has been trying to send them to unemployment. Last development is the dismissal of the hydronomers with an extrajudicial charge sent to them on 7-6-2018 and under pressure from the workers' racing interventions decided that the administration would return to work. On 23-6-2018, the board of directors became what took them back. Since then, however, the workers have to tell you, Minister, that they are outside the 'ERGAN' system. We cannot understand, then, how an administration of such a company has these employees outside the "ERGANI". As a matter of fact, workers are still concerned, since the decision to withdraw their dismissals is characterised as temporary and is made subject to the vague reservation that, unless there is a conflict of law, an AACC or another body, maintaining them in a hostage and insecurity situation. We recall that the twenty-three hydronomists were vindicated by three irrevocable court rulings in the civil courts, but also by the plenary of the Ice Arena, as I said, when the Greek State had sent a request to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay in order to bring an appeal in favour of the law, invoking the lack of jurisdiction of the political courts. None of these decisions, however, prevented the administration of the ESDP from rescinding another mechanism, such as the SAAP, to dismiss them, invoking a section's decision, of the SAP section. We note that a possible dismissal of the twenty-three hydronomists would be unprecedented for the history of ECHO and ECHR in particular. It would jeopardize, Minister, the smooth operation of the water supply network and thus the supply of water throughout Attica, without even excluding an accident similar to that of the IACC. So we are calling on you today with the questions we have asked you, if you really intend to resolve this issue as a government of twenty-three hydronomists by turning the contracts into an indefinite time, to include them in the ECHR regulation. Of course, it is clear that we do not agree with any dismissals in the EEAS. The issue of the twenty-three hydronomists must be addressed immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, you personally have my appreciation and the undignified understanding of your sensitivity which I share with you. I'm starting with this. The intention of the government, but also of the administration of the EMCDDA, is to make it possible, but within the framework of the law, without illegality, for these people to find permanent work. But as you can see, no one can give orders to an independent authority that, with 101a of the Constitution, was set up as such, namely, independent, is subject to the President and the Conference of Presidents of Parliament and to anyone else, and I mean the APA. Furthermore, as you also understand, this 2009 notice was made under the condition that the AACC will approve any procedure, either for the first period of seven months of employment or for the subsequent period of permanent employment. What happened here? Indeed, then the regimes that ruled the country in the way they were ruling it, which guarded and enclosed human souls under political hostage, built a proclamation - as they built it - to serve what they wanted to serve. They encapsulated these people in a situation where they expected something, which was not possible, as the AACC said, because they were missing from the media of their pre-service, i.e. a crucial element of the notice. However, prior decisions of the EEAS had been annulled, with which he wanted to hire the workers, and I mean by the EEAS. At the same time, of course, there were decisions - the ones you rightly mentioned - by the Athens Monomele Court of First Instance on the private relationship of work, but for the first seven months. Be careful here, do not make a mistake, the Monomele Court of Athens ruled on the first seven months of the work relationship and on no account on the indefinite relationship of time, and the plenary session of the Ice Arrow also ruled. However, because we are being heard by the workers - and I have great respect for them, because above all, it is true - that there is a conflict of competence between two courts here. The political court says: 'I will judge, gentlemen, only for the first seven months of the trial period.' He also says: “Yes, a work relationship has been established. And we have to get them to work there. Did they get to work? Sure. Who hired them? Our administration. When it ended this seven-month period, what was the administration supposed to do? He had to go to S.H.I.E.L.D. What's that supposed to mean? Can I continue to employ them?" What did S.H.I.E.L.D. say? ‘No’. Why did he say 'no'? Why were they missing - says the AAP - from inside some evidence. What did the administration do? She took that and fired them? Oh, no. He appealed against the decision of the AACC and applied for treatment, awaiting a positive crisis from the AACC, seeking to keep these people there, for humanitarian and operational reasons, because as the hydronomists rightly said they need. What did S.H.I.E.L.D. say twice? 'No, because these figures are missing again'. What then did H.N.A. do? Did he fire them? He did an extrajudicial, what you said. It's a fact. But then the AACC's Judiciary Office sent a document to the Office of the Legal Council of the State and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and said: "Beware of recourse to the AACC, the Supreme Special Court, to remove the conflict between the Monomele Court of Athens and the ASP", which had meanwhile made a decision by the Administrative Court of Appeal, the annulment of which rejected applications for annulment against the decision of the AACC and confirmed that the ratification between the administrative courts and Monomew had been lifted. In view of this, does the U.S.S.S.A. make a decision again and what does it do? He also keeps them further and says "until there is a definitive crisis, I will keep them". You understand that this is at the limit of the legal framework. But we want to see the case with the sensitivity you see. I fully understand what you have in your soul and I understand what the workers have in their souls. Believe me, we want the best for them and for the business, but we cannot outlaw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u16	Minister, within the framework of the law, you say, you are trying to deal with the matter. I have here - where I imagine you have it, and I will give it to the Minutes - all the correspondence of the EPC and the AACC and, of course, also the Legal Council of State, as well as the decisions of the AACC and of the courts, particularly the Ice Bay. The ASP is an Independent Authority, but it is not a principle that does what it wants. Listen, because the Ice Bay rulings are irrevocable, definitive - I have the decision here, Minister, I will give it to you to see it - I think it is not right what you say should go to the Supreme Administrative Court. These decisions cannot be appealed, because they are documented and, in fact, this decision is dealing with the matter. If the Government really wants to resolve this issue, it has nothing but to decide, accepting the decision of the Ice Arena - which cannot be accepted - and to say that if there is a definitive decision, it cannot be accepted or the Supreme Council, the AACC will also have to accept that that decision was wrong, because in the 2009 notice there was no "a year of service". This has been done retrospectively, so today the workers are hostages and uncertain about their work and uncertain. This 'permanent year of service' was not in the original notice of employee participation. You know that very well, Minister. If you don't know, you have to look into it, look into it, and the APA should apologize because it amended, if you want, the initial notice that the workers took part.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u17	I know her, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u18	I have the impression that you can deal with the matter. Here is the history of this case of the twenty-three hydronomists - it has been done by the workers themselves - the suffering after seven years, from 2016 until now, if you like, the administration itself does not deal with the matter. That is why today, Mr Minister, we want the government to finalise the matter. And if the administration of the EEAS cannot, you can, even with one amendment - many drafts will now go through - solve this issue of the twenty-three NSDP hydronomies to stop this uncertainty and the hostage that you have said before. I am presenting all the case-file and judgments of the courts for the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u20	Mr Papoutsis, I would like to repeat this because I feel it is a mental need, and we want to resolve this. But I repeat to you that we cannot be outlawed. With regard to the decision of the Ice Bay plenary, I would like to reiterate once again that the political court, Monomeme, and of course also Arios Ice, who ratified Monomele's decision, as you quite rightly said, judged - what? - the legality of the seven-month trial period. In fact, since the claim for the action was that the contract should be recognised and converted into an indefinite period, it rejected that request and only accepted for seven months. So the administration of HSY is well said to have to comply with the decision of the Ice Bay, but it has already been complied with, because the trial period has ended now in the next phase. What can we do in the next phase? The legality or otherwise of the extension should somehow be seen in order to unequalise these working relationships. We hope that this extension will indeed be legal. We wish. So far, the ASAP has shown a different attitude. Of course we have made known to the AACC, in the context of the legitimate communication that may exist from the parties to the AACC - from the parties concerned because they are not exactly procedural parties, they are interested parties - that the administration of the ESDP wants there to be a positive view of this issue, but we cannot, from there, point to pointing out the work that the AACC has to do and the scientific opinion it has as the Independent Authority. I would like to point out to you, because you said that it was not the experience in the notice, that on page 6929 of the SAAP tender issue of 3 June 2009, a sheet number of 235 in paragraph 2.4 in Chapter A, which says "Recruitment Procedures" reads precisely: "Experience of one year in the reading of a technical project and water network infrastructure projects". So we'll do our best. I really want you to believe that. We will do everything we can, but you also understand our obligation not to unlawfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall conclude the debate on questions which will not be discussed. The third, with number 1888-26-2018, is a top-stage question of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Koniordos. The fourth under number 1812/14-16-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. The fifth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Interior about the building for the housing of the Department of National Roads of Paionia will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska. The sixth Question No 1151/26-2-2018 by Ms Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on revelations of P. Kammenos" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska. All these questions and the hindrances which will not be discussed will also be signed by the General Secretariat of the Government by Mr Kaloger. We conclude today with the eighth under No. 1808/13-6-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Continuous cases of violence in the fields of the Greek football championship". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr George Vasiliadis. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need two minutes to add them to dentistry there is the importance. Minister, you know very well, better than me, of the constant cases of violence that we have seen in recent years, culminating in stopping the championship last year. So I ask you whether there is time planning to deal with these phenomena - with a new bill, otherwise, you tell us - about how professional and amateur sport will be protected and how you intend to deal effectively with these cases of violence. More in dentistry, after I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you for the brief, Mr President, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theoharis, with regard to the cases of violence, I would like to say: firstly, as a very short introduction, I do not want, and it would be a mistake to sport, to regard violence as a phenomenon of sport as a phenomenon. Violence is a social phenomenon which is much more intensified in a society that has been through a ten-year crisis, in a society where youth unemployment touched a few years ago 50% and in sports spaces it was much easier to express itself. With regard to this year, although there were some moments peaks, I would say, and not mass events, to be honest, at times of trouble - we do not have to resurrect the wounds - we have had fewer cases and less tensions and, above all, to the end of the year. This concerns us enough because it shows that even when we have conquered a "normality" to a point, when we reach the critical bells of the champions, the situation goes off. There is a tough regulatory framework, especially in football, which has been carried out in cooperation with FIFA and UEFA, a regulatory framework which, unfortunately, went wrong a few days ago also through the General Assembly of the OSH and with FIFA's intervention - which does not honour us at all - we are returning to the previous framework and making the appropriate arrangements to escape the contradictions and the various gaps that existed in the previous legal framework. Since then, I have said that our opinion has been and is that in order to deal with these phenomena in the countryside, it is not enough for a committee of wise ministers or wise politicians to deal with them. We have already addressed experts, a team with UEFA, the Council of Europe and the competent prosecutors and police authorities and the General Secretariat of Sports in Greece has been set up and topped up on 12 July. UEFA's aid and assistance is great. On July 12, we have a final meeting in my office. We are working on the new framework concerning both movements of fans, the presence of the police on the stadiums, which we do not want. The ODPs must themselves assume responsibility for what is happening within the stadiums, such as any private business. We think that over there, when there is a specific framework of responsibility - because at the moment everyone is hiding behind who is responsible, if it is the police, how much it is the police, if there is a sequiuriti, if there is a securetti - a clear framework, then together with the experts we think it will be possible to return a page on violence within the racing spaces. At the same time we have tabled and will pass an amendment, which we had announced, in the next few days, on not the peculiarity. We do not believe in the solution of the name in the sense that was introduced into our legal system of sport justice. What we do and we want to do is: Because there is a phenomenon that there is an arrest for an incident of violence and that the court should take place after a long time, when the perpetrator usually may have stopped going to the court. So what do we say? That by exercising criminal prosecution there will be a ban on entering racing spaces on the field. With the presence at the police station? No presence? The judge will judge. As a measure to prohibit those who are arrested for the incidents from coming near to their favorite area. We think that this will be a measure in the right direction, of course, along with all the others that are in place - and we still have a way to do so, of course, in order to be able to apply properly - such as the electronic ticket and the cameras. However, this year was a better year, unfortunately with bad peaks that stigmatized us. That's why we took hard initiatives, we interrupted the championship. We had FIFA and UEFA our own, and that's very important. I feel that, with the changes that will be made to the way the championships are conducted and with the introduction of VAR and so on, we will at least be able to leave the great excuses for the incidents of violence. I'll go back to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I am pleased to hear that there is good cooperation with FIFA and UEFA. I do not have the illusion that our country can find the wheel, and those ministers in the past thought they could do so, in fact they have failed miserably, as I am simply a fan of this - the common practice and experience that we have before us show. We always have new laws. I think the solution in front of us is to start applying some of these laws. We had the law of Mr. Geroulanos in 2012, after Mr. Kontonis's law. They must finally get some things on a proper basis. I remind you - I am sure you know this and I will submit a number of relevant data from my denology - that two new committees, the Sports Planning Council (ESC), as Articles 1 and 2 - you know them better - with fifteen members and the Standing Committee on Violence Management (VAT). Today we have heard about the Committee on Wise Men, another committee advising you on how to proceed. I feel, of course, that with committees and anti-committees I am not sure that we can move forward. I would remind you that three years after 2015 IDAB acquired a regulatory framework with L.4326/2015 and the Observers' Body. So three years he didn't do anything to work. I would like to ask you, Minister, if I have really done so at the moment, if, as its purpose says, proposals are made in connection with the treatment of violence, if they are working with the police, if they have brought any results. Because, indeed, I say to you, as citizens, we cannot see this result. You say the violence has been reduced, but the Greek police in an official press report says in the last three years there have been a hundred and thirty-two arrests. In 2016 we had twenty one cases of violence, where thirty-seven people were arrested and in 2015 we had thirty-seven cases, with seventy-eight arrests. Indeed, from 2015 to 2016 we have had a reduction in numbers, but is there any monitoring of these people? Are there relapses? These, when they happen, if you don't want to have the tool of the peculiar, how are they treated? Because especially in matters of relapse, the peculiarity gives you a legal framework, you are legal and you know it better than me. I also have here the relevant information, which I shall submit, from an article in the 'NATIONAL', on the final AEK-PAOK Cup and the incidents that have taken place. That's where someone's freaking out of the arsenal we're talking about, like flares that pierced the man's knee, iron-skinned. Really, how can a family chief go to the court with his children enjoy the joy of football? And not just football, because we see episodes in volleyball, we see episodes in female sport and possibly random matches only to break out this kind of violence. This shows, as you have said, that the phenomena of violence are socially phenomena, that they are wider and, obviously, the place of sport, with the massity it sees, is an appropriate place for these phenomena. So, Minister, do we have any evidence of the moral perpetrators of these issues or by chance only did the OAS save us, for example, because it is a big field and we did not have more incidents? I asked you for the results of IDAB and I would ask you to tell us what it has done and what really can be done to improve its operation. I hope that your good cooperation with FIFA will make it possible to circumvent the usual excuse for the self-sufficient, that the self-sufficient is the "caramella" used by FYROM, but in reality the self-sufficient refers to the operation of the teams. Obviously, political criteria should not be taken into account, but not on the subject of violence. On the issue of violence, the state has a say, it has a position and it must be able to be effective. I shall therefore close by making a number of suggestions in the Minutes and suggestions, Minister. I hope you will adopt some of them. I will not go into them one by one. It is important that we, the MPs in the opposition, make a proper opposition, that is, with proposals, a positive opposition. I will tell you what Albert Camy was saying: "What I learned about morality and responsibility, I learned it from football." This, unfortunately, in our country football has stopped learning to children, not only about its behavior, but because no one can bring their children to football today. I hope that you have the intention, but also the ability to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Theocharis, you closed with Camy, I will start with Ancheloti: "Shooting is the most important of the least important things in life." I therefore agree with the remarks and will study your proposals, without wishing to mock you or misinterpreting this, because we also live in strange times. Your proposals are always welcome and always have a serious basis - I say this from my experience as Secretary-General for the fight against corruption - and always are thorough. About the ICCAT. The IDAC operates, operates normally and meets once a week in cooperation with the police. It is the body, which recommends to me on matters of violence, on movements of fans, as to whether specific measures should be taken, whether there should be administrative sanctions or penalties. I want to be honest. I am not entirely satisfied with the institutional framework, although it is working very hard and doing a good job is seen by the reactions of the ministers, which means that its recommendations are always, in my view, in the right direction. Here we have to think a little bit about modernising the institutional framework and more competences. For the arrests you mentioned, really, we have more arrests and that's the order. We want to get away from the time when we closed our eyes to these phenomena. I am happy - as long as you can be happy, of course, about these phenomena - because the police directly operated in all cases of violence. We've had a lot of arrests. We have delayed the administration of justice, but this is an intrinsic problem of the Greek system and I think we are going better. And that is why we are coming to bring this provision to us that is a measure of banning entry by means of criminal proceedings. Again, I'm not in favour of the peculiarity. I don't think he'll slaughter a sixteen-year-old, seventeen-year-old, eighteen-year-old to put him in prison with the bad guys so he won't do that again. We don't help him, we don't make him any better. I think denying him access to what he loves - because at the end of the day even distorts, he does what he loves - if you deprive him of access to it, I think that this is the best prison. Of course - and there is provision for this - if it violates the judicial order, then it will obviously end up where criminals end up. From there on, on the subject of fanism, unfortunately - and in recent years this has increased very much - the movements of fans do not only move on the basis of fanatic criteria, they also move with other springs, which start with the political convictions of the Presidents of the Unions. That is why we are seeing political links between fans taken. That is something that should shake football itself. Coming to what you're saying, I'm telling you he won't be able to hide behind his own property. And that is what international bodies have understood, and this is the first time - I do not know if we are honoured as a football player, but we are happy with it as a state - that FIFA and UEFA know that the interlocutor who respects the self-employed, but wants to have rules in his own country, is the government and that is why we have this cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u29	The online ticket?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u30	The online ticket is working. He's got a lot of trouble. We have a problem with control, and that is the gap that we want to cover now with the Civilian Ministry. In other words, there are gaps in the control of the incoming, the fan. Okay, you've got the online ticket, you've taken it out the way you've taken it off, what makes sure you don't give it to your next side? How does the ID check take place? Who's in control? In this context, there is a boldness in this regard. Is the police gonna do it? Is Securiti going to do it? Does Securiti have the right to control? Upside, then, this chaos is being created and in the end no one has a responsibility for anything and anyone can enter and do whatever they want. So that's what we're going to do next. There'll be the securiti over there and not the police, because it's a private business, a private field. We won't throw the burdens on the police. We're not putting the police to the theaters. That's how we won't have on the stadiums. The police will be outside, like in the rest of society, in normal life. Under the responsibility of the AOCs, they will have the possibility and physical control of exceptionally - as is the case with airports, etc. - to check, I.D., physical control and hand over to the police and each to assume their responsibilities. Because at the moment we're all hiding back, at the end we're putting the burdens on the police, which doesn't always do well - I'm not going to say that - but it's not just the responsibility of both football and OLAF to always fall on the backs of others. I would remind you this year, when a mushroom began in the season for the decisions of the IAEA that I validated on the movements of fans, I proposed to the IAEA "Come on, take the responsibility of making organised movements". I and as a former fan I'll tell you I like moving. It's a nice thing on the field to have both team fans. I said: 'Come and take your responsibilities'. Nobody wanted it. We are concerned with criticising the government, police, God himself, but when the time comes for responsibilities, no one wants to take them. We have proposals from Super League this year on travel. We will implement most of them and incorporate them into the new framework. Let's see, but when that time comes, the whole political system should not pet ears and coordinates move the finger and show those who have the real responsibility. Because in the end, because people are voting when it's time to talk about it, most of us are mocking ears. And we lived in this place a few months ago. Remember these incidents. I look forward to your proposals, and I hope this year will be a better year. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. It is very important, and that is why I have been so flexible in time for both of you, because it is quite sensitive. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-05-S1-commons.u32	With the consent of the House at 10.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday 5 July 2018 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on a pre-dated agenda, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff of the Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on the economy, the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments made by the Government.
