ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the House on Thursday 15 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 145/12-11-2018, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘The consequences of the disputed forest land on the eligible areas of our country in both the current and the next Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 152/13-11-2018 topical question by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation into the more favourable arrangement for the repayment of housing loans received and borrowers from banks with a subsidised interest rate from the former Labour House Organisation (OEC) and the State". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 146/12-11-2018 topical question by MP Rethymnon of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Foreign Minister on ‘Reports by the former Foreign Minister on allegedly bribery of the Government’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct solution to the problem you yourself have created and do not carry out tests to obtain a driving licence." 3. The question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". 4. The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. 5. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 2170/4-10-10-2018 by Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Relocation of the Third Local Branch of the Federal Retired Persons (V. IKA Neapolis Thessaloniki)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: debate and decision on the appointment of a deadline, in accordance with Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, of the Commission's report on the revision of the Constitution. As you know, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal to revise the provisions of the Constitution submitted by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA and forty-nine Members of his party will be referred for consideration in a Committee on Revision of the Constitution set up by the President of this House. I would therefore like to announce to the House that, under Rule 119 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the committee for the revision of the Constitution was set up under No 1417/8812/12-11-2018. The decision in question has been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency', it has been notified to the Members concerned and will be registered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u2	In accordance with Rule 119(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the House, acting on a proposal from its President, shall set a deadline for the submission of its report to the Review Committee. The debate on this subject shall be closed at a meeting. The Conference of Presidents at its meetings on 5 and 12 November 2018 decided by a majority that the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the Parliamentary Representatives, only if the President does not speak a circle of sixteen speakers with a proportional representation of the Parliamentary Groups as follows: five speakers from the SYRIZA, three speakers from the New Democracy, one speaker from the other six Parliamentary Groups and two Independent Members. The government will speak from the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Kalogerou. As regards the duration of the speeches, we propose that twenty-minutes should be given for the Presidents of the first two to a power of Parliament and the Minister responsible and fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining six parliamentary groups, and 12 minutes for the Parliamentary Representatives, who will be given the floor, since the President of their Group is not speaking for ten minutes for each speaker from the Parliamentary Groups and six minutes for the two Independent Members. No one will have a right to secondary education. Does the House agree on these proposals? From what I see, does this House agree or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u3	Ten minutes, Madam President? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u4	Ten minutes, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u5	You don't? Good. There is no justification for the vote. Not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u6	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u7	Here, what are you going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to tell you about the time. As is the procedure, the rapporteur for the smaller parties and ours are ten minutes. In ten minutes, what are you going to say about the revision of the constitution? We believe that, because the other parties have five speakers and four, there are automatically a huge problem of inequality. We think at least those who have a quarter must be tolerated, given a 15-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u9	Explain what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u10	Mr Pafile, this year has been discussed at the Conference of Presidents. He's made a decision. There'll be tolerance. We always have tolerance, but not tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u11	We're talking about the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u13	I fully agree with Mr Pafile's position and add my voice to that argument. I would add, however, one more thing, Madam President. If I have listened well - correct me, if I am mistaken, please - you have also spoken of the procedure with regard to time during the Conference of Presidents, not for today's session, but for the functioning of the committee after that. Didn't I understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u14	The committee has already been set up. Today's issue is the deadline for the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u15	That's right. I say this, and I think that the majority Members will understand it as reasonable. You have, as a majority in this House, announced the revision for two years. You're supposed to have a social dialogue. Good or bad, we'll talk about this. He lasted two years or something. Is it possible for such a serious procedure to set a deadline of so few weeks? Our proposal, Madam President, in addition to what Mr Pafilis said, which covers us and relates to today's session, is that the committee should be able to work at least by the end of January, and if there is a need for a deadline, also for Parliament to decide. It is a question of principle for you to accept it, despite the majority decision of the Conference of Presidents that the period of a few weeks which is set in committee is really problematic and institutional and democratic above all. We are doing something that is rare, in accordance with Article 110 of the Constitution, and rightly so, because our Constitution is strict. Don't make it that way. At your discretion, it is up to you to see the matter again, before we vote, of the time that the plenary will be assigned to the committee responsible to do the work that has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr Loverdos, this is the deadline we have set at the end of January for the first vote to take place at the end of February. In any case, however, you should also look at the history of the revisions with a ten-day deadline. Because, therefore, there is also this periphery, that it is a pre-election period - there is one logic in this - any extension will coincide with the start of the pre-election period for European elections, local government, regional elections. The House cannot be busy that year. The proposal has reason, it has not been done, because we want fast Truck procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u18	The President wants the floor, who can give you more enlightenment. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u19	In response to what the President said, I would like to say that the volume that has been carried out for a year and a half so-called 'national dialogue', in any case, with proposals, etc., has been posted for a long time and has been at the disposal of the parties. The proposals of the parties and of the past - because you remember that it was not possible to end the process in 2014, while the proposal had already been formulated by a majority at the time - the proposals of the parties and of the substance of the articles have already been tabled by at least two parties and by a third of today - by the Independent Greeks, namely from parties that have not more than fifty Members, as from other parties in the past, or are present, that is to say, it is not a procedure for a debate which is suddenly under way. From there on, the committee itself, Mr Loverdos - you know that better than I do - will be given if it calls for an extension for reasonable time. But let us begin, as the President said, with the two months, because in fact, after March, I mean, in fact, we will also be in a pre-election process. So let's not stay on this today. Let the two-month period be adopted, we must make a laborious effort by all my fellow Members with the proposals that have already been put forward or with everything else and move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, please, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, please, I would also like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Loverdos, just a minute, because Mr. Tragakis wants the floor. You've spoken. Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u23	I will speak for a minute, Madam President. As you know, I have made the chairman of constitutional committees for the review twice. Experience shows: Firstly, that we should not confuse the time of political developments with the constitutional review. This harms the constitutional revision itself. Secondly, we are debating today only the procedure for the committee and the time that the committee will take and the compositions. After all, I think that all compositions have been tabled, Madam President. So we're ready to start. The third point I would like to make - and I also stressed in the Conference of Presidents - is that time seems a little bit more like time. But that is not the decision taken by the House. As the President has said, this is a decision taken by the committee. Let the committee start its work, let us see how many articles the two big parties or all the other parties agree, which do not have the number of 50 that is required, as you remember that we had put the proposals of all the other parties and had compared them to the proposals of the two major parties then that were involved in the review. So let us start this process and the committee decide how we go along with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, please, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u25	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to remind the President of Parliament that the Change Movement has tabled concrete proposals, including an initiative from March 2018. Why did we do that then? We did it because we weighted the time. No one can know, except the Prime Minister when he will take and whether he will take the initiative to dismantle this House early. So, without wishing to go into what you said, having in mind only fixed dates - European elections, municipal elections and regional elections, you were right to say that - our proposal to extend the time includes what you said, Madam President, that is, that we should have finished the second vote at the end of March. On the contrary, there is a wide range of policies and institutions to say that we will end at the end of February and start voting. This dimension is my intervention. Thank you very much and thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u27	For the end of January, I told you that this was the plan. In any case, this debate will also be held at the end of the vote. Let us not start with this issue of putting things in place. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the first speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the "Working Democracy Workshop" educational programme organised by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 7th Graduate School of Agia Varvaras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You should be aware that what we call the Constitution's review process is taking place today, which is a leading process for Parliament, and it is our pleasure that you are participating in this launch. I give the floor to Mr. Paradise from SYRIZA for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have a good start. Definitely the start of the process of revision of the Constitution is a moment for thought. The Constitution is not an upper rule nor a sudden contract of politicians or wise men, but a product of history and society. It arises through the struggles of the peoples and through top social contradictions. The saying of Heraklion "always in advance" just this dialectic democracy expresses itself. In fact, the drafting of the Greek Constitutions results from revolutionary or even socio-political shocks. Telegraphically we remember the revolutionary Constitutions of Epidaurus, Astros and Troizina in the years 1822 to 1827. He followed the Constitution of 1844 as a reaction to Otto's autocracy, that of 1864 with democratic features. In the twentieth century the Constitution of 1911 with Venizelos, in 1927 where the unfounded democracy is established, while in 1952, the ruled democracy and parliamentaryism are combined in 1952. Finally, with the restoration of democracy in 1974, the current system of the Parliamentary Republic is now introduced together with a broad list of individual and social rights. Unlike the dismissal, democracy composes, but does not attempt to hide - or cares to hide - the social competition from which its institutions come. The Constitution itself incorporates a fundamental contradiction: on the one hand it is a rule and therefore seeks obedience. On the other hand, it safeguards freedom, since it guarantees that the citizen can only be bound by a contract in which he himself has taken part. So this obedience also implies denial of coercion and any authoritarian authority. Of course, the rules of the Constitution should not reflect temporary political interests or circumstances, but should be based on more stable values of humanism, democracy and culture. That is why a constitutional review should be based on broader consensus in order to provide a resilient foundation for the socio-political structure. During the economic crisis, of course, the institutions of democracy passed an unprecedented test: a test of endurance. The test has shown that democracy and the rule of law is not enough to constitute formal data, but they must have functionality and substance. These lessons inspire this review proposal. In SYRIZA's proposal you will not find any arrangements that are cut and sewn to its measures. As a whole, the proposals concern everyone's rights, the country in general, democracy in general. There are even proposals that risk even voting costs in order to serve the time-consuming values of the rule of law and democracy. For the political nature of the proposals I will only say: this proposal by SYRIZA is inspired by a historical context: the meeting of the values of the Left and democracy. If a concept has so far been linked to the theoretical and practical word of the Left, that is equality. Democracy on the other hand is characterised by the support of policy in majority decisions. Nowadays, as in others, the economic crisis has increased the population of non-EU countries and has made them majority. That is why the effective functioning of the rules of democracy now has a balanced dynamic and tends towards social change and, in fact, radical change. The centre of gravity of this proposal for a revision is, of course, the deepening of democracy. In view of the limited time, I will refer only to proposals relating precisely to the functioning of the democratic culture. Structural elements of democracy are, of course, the involvement of the active citizen in decisions, as well as the commitment and accountability of the leaders. These latter elements must be safeguarded primarily and through representativeness. So these proposals are a number of, but not numerous, direct-democratic touches, while most of them and the most developed proposals are the ones that cure some malfunctions or weaknesses of the institutions. I shall propose, because of the importance of these, the proposal to introduce a similar electoral system in Article 54 of the Constitution. In addition to the substantial promotion of representative institutions, the formal upgrading of regulation in constitutional ensures the prevention of relevant legislative initiatives that would have short-term party horizons. Here, therefore, are the revisions of several articles. You've definitely read the proposal. I do not need to make a referral in writing, but I will highlight some critical points. First of all, I would like to explain the correlation I am trying personally at the moment and the reform - the revision of Article 86 of the Constitution with the functioning of democracy and representativeness. The immunisation of political responsibility with Article 86 is important not only because the fight against corruption is a self-evident necessity, but precisely because it ensures the accountability of politicians as an element of democracy. In this review direction referred to in Article 86, there is nothing to do with the equalization ideas that all politicians consider a priori guilty. A few words have to be said, of course, because this is also a question that raised the review of 2008, for the reason that the revision of Article 16 was not included in the SYRIZA proposals. In my opinion, the public nature of higher education in Greece today is not only necessary, but it is vital, firstly, because knowledge in our time for the first time becomes a tool for the survival of mankind globally. In the past, the world had not been aware of the possibility of a collective self-destruction of the earth because of a nuclear accident or because of a disaster of the environment. However, in a university - private enterprise - research and education is impossible to reverse the objectives and interests of private owners - financing. There is no room for such enterprises, seeking the common ecological benefit, to discover, for example, the need for costly filters or for limits to industries and other profitable activities of their own. Nor do they make it easy to find that their devices happen to have dangerous radiations. The private universities are interested in applications that promote the competitive position of their owners, but not so much in basic research, nor in knowledge that can promote the interests of competitors. On the contrary, in the public university the teacher and the teacher are free to investigate everything and to develop opinions and opinions even against the State itself. Secondly, the view of equilibrium, the principle of the left and democracy, as an antagonistic to the culture of excellence, has a primitive past and a living neoliberal present, but it is bad. Aristotle noticed it in time. A man alone cannot find the true knowledge, but many, together, are doing something. Science needs open dialogue, since the more they share in it, the richer knowledge becomes. On the contrary, when knowledge is treated as the privilege of a few of the finest, the Treaty of progress is weakened. Excellence - let us take care of this - is the product of democracy and equality and not their opponent. Thirdly and finally, I would like to say about the university, the non-universities today are many and the tuition fees will be excluded from university education. Neoliberalism has proposed that loans should be paid for by students. The result, however, was easy to predict and is now realized and obvious. A generation of young scientists in countries that established these loans thanks to the tuition fees is unable to develop professionally because it starts its career in debt. So privatization of universities is at the top of the spear of neoliberalism. As early as 1991, Aristovoulou Menesis wrote: "Yes, with his anti-state and anti-formist speech, legal neoliberalism seems first and foremost to promote the liberation of society by the state and hence its self-regulation and gradual self-determination, but in practice it is a matter of retreating state power before private centres that tend to prevail and seize them against society". Again with Heraklito, I will finish: "Machetha do the municipality in favor of the law Osper wall." The Law - with capital - of Heraklion corresponds to today's Constitution and, of course, it is no coincidence that the saying is expressed in the climate of democracy for its own law and for the benefit of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and how forty students and students and five educational attendants from the 13th Chalkida Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tasoulus from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u30	"Dear Father, after a series of various and violent reactions I finally have a law of Parliament that grants the property of my new fire engines to me and my mandates throughout Great Britain and to the Plantations for the next twenty-five years, which I hope will be particularly beneficial to me, as there is already significant demand for them." In 1775 the twenty-five-year inventor of the steam engine James Watt - "Watt" is known - sends a letter to his father in which he celebrates, because the centralized, English financial system opens, preparing the industrial revolution with incentives to businesses and innovation. Great Britain has many interpretations of its glamorousness. An important interpretation of why the Great Britain became an empire, because that was where the Industrial Revolution was born, is why after the glorious revolution of 1688 that James was replaced by William of Orange, parliament in a process - mutatis mutandis - that we are doing today, opened up the institutions, abolished the state monopolies and breathed the economy. Such breath gave the economy so that citizens and businessmen, such as Watt, had not only the protection of the state and the laws, but also the protection of the British Navy all the UK's commercial missions. And we must say that one of the reasons why the United Kingdom favoured the Greek Revolution of 1821 is because they then considered that free and independent Greece would facilitate free trade in the Eastern Mediterranean. "The land, subsoil, water, forests, factories, mines, railways, maritime and air transport, banks, post offices, large state-owned agricultural enterprises (shoots), machinery stations and tractors, as well as Community enterprises and the vast majority of the housing in towns and large industrial areas are the property of the State, i.e. the whole of the people. The collective undertakings (the colostrums) and their organisations with animals and their tools, the production they provide and their collective buildings constitute the social socialist property of the colloquiums and cooperative organisations.’ These are Articles 6 and 7 of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u31	Read the first article that says that man’s exploitation is stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u32	I have read and exploited two extreme historical moments, two extreme historical institutional descriptions of the perception of progress and advancement. I realise that, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, I am doing so, and I realise that it is important to know these two extreme historical moments because, if we really want to surround the revision of the Constitution with a historical dimension, we must realise that every time this top parliamentary procedure is to adapt constitutional reality to the needs of the country and the people. The country's Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, in his letter to political leaders and so-called political leaders, writes in a word on 29 October that this revision must be an opportunity for social and political consensus and also this revision - to God - must not fall victim and hostage of short political time. If Mr. Tsipras hadn't recently given a library in Paris a work of Aristophanes, I would doubt his turn to comedy. After this donation, however, I am sure that, when it speaks of consensus and of short-term political time, it is obviously a mockery of everyone, and that is, in our view, and the incentive of the proposal, which, as a start, has initiated the creation of the respective committee of Parliament. The importance of the review for us is precisely this impatience to turn it into an inappropriate attempt: firstly, to use the revision of the Constitution for reasons of purely electoral purposes of the ruling majority, and secondly, to be the same revision of a mechanism that will actually burn down, due to the deadlines and procedure laid down in Article 110, the substantial revision that the country needs and we risk to burn it down for the next ten years by repeating the consequences of the anemic review of 2008. The new Republic, as our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has already presented, and as soon as possible will be present in detail, is aware of the constitutional review in terms which are dictated by the needs of the times, in terms of real problems and not the temporary problems of the parties, and there is no room for any hypocrisy. In committee and here today we will all be dealing with how the people perceive the needs of the country, because it is not possible to put forward proposals to avoid the dissolution of the House because of the fact that the President of the Republic is not elected from that fact which, a few years ago, became an interpretative laughing-off of the Constitution and to applaud the provisions on the dissolution of the House, caused the Parliament to dismantle the spirit of the Constitution. It is not possible at the same time for those who ignored and despised the message of a referendum to flood the constitutional text with a referendum of all kinds and all kinds by flattering a tired and disappointed people, the last thing that is needed is flattery, saying that in this way we show the power that gives the city the power to bring people to the fore. At the same time, who ignored the people who came to the forefront, blame the New Democracy for seeing the people coming to the fore as a threat. Who perceives her as a threat? For at least two years now we have proposed that the people should come to the fore through the revision by voting on the proposals of the other party and the people at the forefront of the elections between the proposers and the Parliament to show their role. Who is therefore afraid of the people at the forefront? Does the person who invokes him and flatter him or who wants to make him responsible and sovereign of the competitive proposals of the constitutional review? The proposal from the New Democracy, as it has been presented, and as it will be very briefly specified, does not deal with false problems. We don't have the luxury for fake problems. Democracy is not at risk in our country and the Constitution is not the reason why the country went bankrupt. The country went bankrupt, if we want to tell the truth, because political staff and public speech were unable to modernise the country, change the productive model and properly educate the Greek people. The country went bankrupt because at a time when the parties that ruled with the people's vote were moving in the wrong directions at a rate of weight the opposition left was shouting no weight, no wheel. That is the difference, and that is the responsibility that touches us all. And if the Constitution thinks it's magic, and here we have a different perception. The Constitution will not solve the problems so that you can imagine and want the people to imagine with us that a Constitution of happiness can be established, which introduces effective health benefits or economic prosperity. The difference in Greece will be made by economic progress and economic growth. That is why we, too, have supported not a depth of democracy which has happily deepened in our country for decades, but a depth of the effectiveness of the three-stop state, a depth of Parliament with better legalisation, a depth of the administration with more effective action, a depth of justice with faster awarding. Today we are all involved in our responsibilities and how we understand them. We will try this review not to become inappropriate. With the exception of the possibility offered by the majority, which we do not have, we will do so in order to have an extensive and bold review by means of the Greek people's vote. And don't laugh. Repeat, the Constitution will not save us. The Constitution will help a decisive government to resolve fertile ties and achieve those growth rates that will provide the world with effective health benefits rather than the articles of the Constitution. Because he needs something else. I'm finishing up with a historical report. Like today at midnight, sixty - five years ago, at Patisia Street and Vassilis Sophia Avenue sounded a compresser. The then Minister of Public Works Konstantinos Karamanlis ripped off the railroads of the English company "POWER" because the company "POWER" refused to facilitate the Greek state to replace the old trams of this colonial contract with "POWER" with modern trolleys. The then Minister for Public Works, by making this move, said that 'and I gave them a deadline and no one will be able to fix this anymore'. Two years after this person became the Prime Minister of Greece, who radically changed the fate of the country and removed poverty as a permanent session of the Greek people. He had institutional aid, had the help of associates of great importance, had the help of the Greek people. But, in order not to believe that there are magical constitutions, I tell you that with a proper constitution, with a decisive governance, the one that the Greek people will trust following the next elections in Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the time when Greece will go hand in hand with the development of decisive and institutional institutions will not be long enough to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a process of institutional and politically very serious is taking place today and I hope that it will end in the next few months and, above all, end in the next Review House, because ours is the Proposing House. Introductory, and only two rows, I want to make a report. The fact that we are sitting in the same chairs, in close chairs in the Constitutional Review procedure does not mean that we are involved in approaches, procedures and ultimately common views on the quality of the institutions. We have for the first time an attempted murder of a former Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister not to visit him to support him. The right to life, the highest of rights, has two sides: ours and others. Self-righteous, convicted of all of us, and brutal murder of Zak Kostopoulos. The Prime Minister's response - and rightly so - condemning self-righteousness and solidarity with the family. For Constantine Katsifa, as Stavros Lygeros correctly wrote, another sign in human life. Suicide of people, which is a big issue, a political issue, not a human being, for years. Change of government, and the matter is over. Human life, the highest good that protects the constitutional rights system has two facets, two data, double standard. It's wrong. That and so forth makes me say we don't have a common worthy code. But we are obliged by the Constitution itself to think together if we can do something good for the Greek citizen. And this is our peak. This is our review head. The review will make sense, the review will be heard, heard with interest by the citizen only if it is a review that turns around its issues as it treats them as an economically active citizen, as a citizen who is interested in public and politics, at last, who is troubled and in general with all the dimensions that man has in Greece living in the year 2018. It will either be the objective of the review, or there will be a review of efforts to be made, but not the ears of the unhearing. And these ears will be the ears of the citizens who have to understand - and this is our duty - that the revision concerns themselves and not the political system that wants to resolve internal issues. What proposals can, in this context, be very interesting? First sentence: The citizen as economically active is interested in the good of political stability, for the stable political cycle. So we need to find the right solution so that the four-year political cycle is a constitutional reality and not the norm for the arbitrary, long-term, early dissolution of this House. Secondly, has the institution of non-change of electoral law not been successful in practice by immediate application, because Members should constantly vote for its change? It worked! We have escaped horrendous Parliament's dissolutions for the sake of political purposes. This rule of increased majority because we do not use it in the major regulations on investments, so that one who makes an investment and the House tells him by law - the ministers here bring the major investments so that they do not themselves have individual responsibility, and they do - a, b, c, d, investment rule. The association of forces is changing, the Greek state's obligations are changing, and by a simple majority an investment project is stirring up in the air. How will the man who wants to invest in you trust you? So how can those looking for work have opportunities on the labour market? There's no way. The arbitrage in balances, however, is weighed against the interests of the worker, the economy and the country in the final analysis, and thus increased majority. Are our old colleagues, who in the old constitutions - and in that of 1975 - foolish enough to create stability in investment? I am not saying that we should do the same, but I say use the 'good' rule of increased majority voting. ‘Control of the constitutionality of the laws’, Article 93(4) of the Constitution. Colleagues, will you be satisfied that if a case of investment - and any other - is a constitutional objection to a solution, if the pilot trial is not used - for those who understand what we say - which only applies to the administrative courts, can it delay the resolution of a two and three-year dispute? Should we not say that any objection of constitutionality is dealt with directly, without trial - pilots - which is in the judgment of a judge whether to accept your case as a pilot trial and only in the administrative courts - in the plenary sessions of the courts? It's very right. Are we going to propose this to the review? If we do not recommend this in this review, then we are elsewhere in the morning. The time of the commander and of a man who has matters in justice, is not the time of the state, it is man's time, it is the citizen's time and we cannot take it away from him. And that's what we've been doing for decades. In other words, there must be a direct and clear direction here, from this House, to changing Article 93(4) of the Constitution. For private universities, for non-State universities or for my terminology, my own personal terminology, for legal persons of university law, Article 16 is a key element in this matter. You people who are cut off on religious freedom in words - why did Mr. Friend "licens", expelled him - Article 16(2), which is the basis of case-law, and on the basis of this article is determined as a mission of the state to cultivate religious conscience, why do you not have it in the revision? You are afraid that if you put the 16 paragraph 2 you will also be passed on to private universities. It goes through another provision, we don't need you! We do not need you, regulation goes elsewhere, but the major issue of academic freedom is in Article 16. But why is Article 16 not where it refers to universities, but where it refers to religious freedom is not included in majority proposals? However, ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view of my profession, a thousand hundred Greek and Greek women are studying law in Cyprus. Do you like that? Does that satisfy you? Is he in your plans, in your frame? Are you close to this situation? If you are close to this situation, do not dare, but I tell you again that there are many ways. You are not avoiding a solution, a version which the Greek society itself calls for, which is asked for. There are others in this area, but I don't have time. I want to make two - three points on matters relating to the functioning of the citizen at political level and one - two more points on some major changes concerning the institutions of the state. Unfortunately, the chingle in time is so great that it forces us to do things very seriously, which must be part of our suggestion, of the parties' suggestion, not to have time to talk about it. However, you say about referendums and about the direct election of the President of the Republic as a stimulus for political participation. First of all, there are referendums not to be spoken by a majority. He held an illegal referendum in 2015 and did not apply the decision taken by the Greek people. So leave those hypocrites. But for the immediate election of the President of the Republic as a stimulus to the political participation which or which of this Chamber ignores that in the Middle War, on the admiration of the executive, the governments had time to stay in the things, weeks, the government instability reigned and so the parliamentary civilisation was rationalised so that there would be a political officer and the king or the President of democracy - to us the President - just be a regulator of the civilisation? Do one or two responsibilities need to be reinstated with the President of the Republic? It is true, but the direct election and without any responsibility, only with those it has, makes it a factor of political anomaly. You need to understand this, and you too need to withdraw the right of direct election from your proposals. These patronages that create impressions, but which have no substance, work in disastrous logic. We need to see forms of political participation that we need to favour. Parliament's proposals for legislation do not come to the House to be voted on. It must change and become an equivalent legislative initiative, but at this level of the proposal for a law, the legislative initiative taken by citizens by collecting a number of signatures. And yet, why would the reports be read here by a Member? A competent committee of Parliament shall examine reports that may, under conditions, be developed by the citizen himself in a competent committee of Parliament. These are the ones that elevate the citizen, who give him in and not the polls on the direct election of the President of the Republic, which I repeat only disasters can be brought to the place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not have time, ladies and gentlemen, to do the analysis, as I would like to do. I have the honour to represent the Change Movement in the Commission for Revision of the Constitution and to be its rapporteur. I'll do it there. I have to say, however, only a few words about the functioning of the institutions of the State: First of all, we agree with the change of Article 86 of the Constitution 'on criminal responsibility of the Ministers'. The President of the Officerial Representation is here, and I would remind the Chamber - to those who want to remember - that he, together with me and nine other Members of the New Democracy and one of us from PASOK, had taken an initiative to sign in 2006 a proposal to change Article 86.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u35	But you didn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u36	You weren't here then. Why are you swinging your head? Don't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u37	No one else signed. We didn't become 50 MPs. The proposal did not have an official character. It remained, however, a sign of disposition. So don't tell us different late preachers of the change of Article 86 wisdom. There was time then. There was the premise of your political space then in the House. Your MPs have not signed. We did not have the twelve that were then twenty, thirty, fifty, as the Constitution requires to revise Article 86. Let's do this today. In addition, public administrations and local authorities need intervention. We need intervention at a basic level, ladies and gentlemen. Listen to it. A lot of that will be judged. It says in this House that for the actions of a mayor, a ministry, a public service, an exclusive deadline is set at sixty, ninety days, for example. The public believes that this deadline is a deadline to be complied with. The action comes and says that the administration, unable to respond to the exclusive deadline, responds after three years. The citizen, the public, complains about this. It's a rule of complaint in this case. Justice comes after saying that the administration could not respond and the deadline set by the House - we - can be called 'exclusive', but is indicative. The time limit is indicative. The deadlines laid down by the legislature - in cases where he appreciates it - must be met exclusively by the Constitution itself. And if that is not the case, we let the citizen - despite the fact that this is going through our hands - change it - the predicament of bureaucratic maliciousness, because bureaucracy exists in both administration and local government, but also in the administration of justice. Not in the justice rendering, in the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Loverdo, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u39	This change must be made. There is also a great deal to be done in local government in a direction that we will see in the committee. Articles 101 and 102 of the Constitution must therefore be reviewed, which is absolutely essential. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no more time. I'm hanging up here. We have a few weeks - in any case, what the majority decided - to make the revision and we have two versions in front of us. I'm addressing everyone. The first version is to be used in matters relating to a narrow-minded policy, arrangements for parties, elections and so on. I would like to inform you that, as far as our relationship with the citizen is concerned, it will go unreservedly. We all have to understand that the prestige of the constitution can no longer draw any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Loverdo, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u41	I'm closed, Madam President. Once, after the dictatorship, the grievance of the Constitution was so great that only the proposal for change made the citizen careful. And the man who did it draws authority, not from himself, but from the authority of the constitution. Now, since the constitution is prestigious, no one draws any attention, because no citizen - or even any citizen - is interested in the internal arrangements of the political system. We will either shift the centre of interest of this action to man, the citizen or lose another chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u42	We said there would be tolerance in time, but not speak for seventeen minutes. Please, because then everyone will want to coordinate with this time. Mr. Karakostas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u43	The study of the proposal for a constitutional review by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, on the one hand, reveals the policy of national degradation, which, without any pretext, follows and, on the other hand, confirms every aspect of the anti-national activity of the Left and its partners, an anti-national activity which Golden Dawn has been denounced and fought for a long time. It is obvious at international level, but above all in our country, that the representatives of the globalisation ideology, in cooperation with whom we can rightly term 'professional rightmakers', are attempting in every way to destroy any concept of national sovereignty in whatever aspect. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, can you say just a little quiet? Good! In simple terms, the Left Government, in ever-built cooperation with Kammenos and his party, seeks every day in a work and for reasons to hit that tripartite, which either kept Hellenism alive in critical historical times or contributed the greatest to the creation of it. And this threefold, deeply rooted in the hearts of the majority of our people - whether you like it or not - is home, religion and family. In this direction, therefore, the direct blow to the main pillars of the Greek nation, and despite the fact that, over time, the constitutional legislator in recognition of the services of the Church first made the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ and the invoking to the Holy Trinity as the permanent and stable precursor of all constitutional Greek texts already from the era of post-revolutionary Constitutions, the Government of the Left and the Christian and Christian partner and accomplice to propose the religious neutrality of the Greek state come today. According to the proposal for revision, Article 3 is read as follows: "The Greek state is religiously neutral. Dominant religion in Greece is the Orthodox Church, which is inextricably bound to the Ecumenical Patriarchate and every Orthodox church and is observing the rules of the Apostles and the Ecumenical Sessions and the church tradition. The Orthodox Church is self-headed and is commanded according to what is defined in its charter, the 1950 Patriarchal Volume and the 1928 Syndicate Act." If one opposes this wording today's Article 3, then there are differences which seem to be insignificant, but in practice nothing but trivial. First, it is the first time that it is found in a Greek constitutional text from the beginning of the Greek state the concept of religiously neutral state. No governmental factor to date has bothered to explain to us what this announcement means practically. Does it mean that the official religious festivities are abolished in the future from the official state festivities? Does it mean that the officials of the state and the military will not participate in these religious celebrations? Does it mean that the image posting in public services and schools will be abolished? Does it mean that the cross should be removed from the flag, since, with neutral logic, can a citizen of another religion demand that there be no cross in the national symbol? And, finally, what kind of neutrality is it when the Muslim continues to swear in the Qur'an, but cannot the Christian? We would point out that Article 59(2) states: 'Other religious or heterosexual MPs shall take the same oath as the type of their own religion or doctrine'. At the same time, the sentence of Article 33 and Article 59 are deleted, 'I swear in the name of the homogeneous and indivisible trinity'. What does SYRIZA - ANEL say to us? Greek citizens, any religious doctrine, can swear normally according to their faith, but this is not the case for the vast majority of the Greeks, who are and proudly declare Christian Orthodox. In addition, do you dare to mention religious neutrality of the Greek state when the Muslims of Thrace, even after the legislative change, are the sharias chosen, or when the altar cemeteries are supervised by the Israeli community and the Catholic church, respectively, which are both legal entities governed by public law? How in line with neutrality is the obligation for all sorts of people in their schools to be taught their religions, with their own priests, unlike the Greeks, who will be taught the incomprehensible disgraces of the “Minister of Anti-National Education” Gavroglou, in religious terms, instead of what our Orthodox Christian faith defines? Secondly, the phrase is deleted, "The Orthodox Church has a head of our Lord Jesus Christ." One should tell those who are trying to cut off this article, that the Eastern Orthodox Church of Greece, from the outset of the state entity, uses exactly symbolic and practical as its head Christ's face. We ask ourselves: For almost two hundred years this wording has been repeated in all the constitutional texts. What, then, is bothering the godless ethnicists of SYRIZA - ANEL government? Or have they found - and are they ashamed to tell us - a more appropriate person than Jesus Christ for the head of the Orthodox Church? Let's go to Article 21 of which reads: 'The family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity and childhood, are under the protection of the state'. Even this general, but dignified, wording, the Bolsheviks have been put to change it. Why? Because the current phrase 'the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation' is annoyed by the Bolsheviks, because it contains the forbidden word 'national', which the Bolsheviks do not recognise and therefore cannot tolerate in a statute. And here is the main aim of this popular review: the degradation of the main, dominant components of the country, which at the same time states the hatred of the rulers in the unresolved Greek values, those still being recorded today as the first in the polls that are carried out at times. The family, the Church and the Armed Forces are those institutions that are declared the most popular of the Greeks, and this will not change as much revisions as they get drunk, whatever is written in any legal text, since these values remain inexhaustiblely engraved in the soul of each Greek and every Greek. Article 44(2) proposes the introduction of the institution of the referendum on a popular initiative. Here, it seems, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is attempting the shameless truce both of the Parliament and especially of the Greek people. This is because you have the incomprehensible courage of the Bolsheviks and your accomplice Champagne to speak of a referendum when you are the government that organised a referendum on July 5, 2015, received a clean and bronze 'no' from 62% of the Greek people, which Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos turned the next day into a lousy and submissive 'yes' to the international loan sharks, 'yes', which led to the hardest of all the memorials. That is why you have become worthy, not just of contempt, but of the ridicule of the Greek people. It is not possible, of course, to refer to Articles 30(1), 32(4) and (5), 34(1)(b), 35(2) (c) and 41(5) concerning the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament. The question, which I raise, is a reasonable and simple one: Three votes, and if the required majority, repeated every month, are not collected, until a three-fifths majority is reached, or six months from the start of the election procedure. And if after the seven total votes there is not the required majority, the President will be directly elected by the people. Well, the others, but you, gentlemen on the left, are you afraid of the people? Why do you despise him so provocatively? Constant and declared position of Golden Dawn is the election of the President of the Republic directly from the people, free from dirty political or extra-institutional games, from business and general economic interests. I cannot, of course, denounce the deep hypocrisy of the Left, which represents the alleged guardian of popular sovereignty, and in essence does everything in its power to limit it or distort it. In any case, however, I do not think it is particularly honourable for all the parties of the so-called 'democratic arch' that the only one to date elected directly by the people by referendum President of the Republic is George Papadopoulos, whether you like it or not. In Article 62, which proposes that the institution of parliamentary immunity should be limited to what is strictly necessary and Article 86(3) to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a minister at any time within the time when the offence is cancelled. The Golden Dawn has been in favour of the abolition of parliamentary immunity and of the obsolete law on the liability of ministers, but also of the abolition of the privileges resulting from these qualities, because we nationalists mean equality between all of us in the Constitution and the laws. As time prevents me from expanding further to points of the proposed constitutional review, I conclude with the following: On 2 November the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, out of the Ethiopian where the Golden Dawn trial is conducted, stated to the journalists: "Our presence here is a present political act and intervention." I repeat for those who do not believe in their ears: "Our presence here is a present political act and intervention on the scale of Europe, our country, and it suggests our decision not to continue to incubate and at some point break what comes out of the snake's egg." In other words, the President of Parliament and some of the SYRIZA extremists who accompanied him have confessed to raw political intervention in independent judicial power. This is exactly where we are talking about the definition of political intervention in judiciary. And do you have the courage, the Bolsheviks, to speak of respect for the constitution, the constitutional rules and the separation of powers? You are a junta of atheists and nationalists, which the Golden Dawn will fight and tear down, so that our homeland and people may breathe freely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Carachosta, be more careful in your expressions. The applause, anyway, would take it. Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u46	On two issues, from what Mr Karakostas referred to, I want to say something. The publicity of the trial is a guarantee and a guarantee that it will be carried out properly on the basis of our judicial system. And therefore, our presence, which I consider to be our duty, as present, as citizens in whose trial we are following, is a sign of the need for publicity, acceleration and efficiency of justice and, at the same time, a response to the large majority of the European Parliament - and I have said quite clearly that it was one of the best, perhaps a few moments, of the countries, that they should step up their struggle towards the phenomena of racist, xenophobic and philosophical violence. I was very clear and was given the opportunity of Mr Karakostas to repeat them in Parliament as well. Madam President, I just don't want it to pass on from the meeting that dictator Papadopoulos was not elected by democratic procedures as President of the Republic within the junta. We know very well that all the acts of the entire seven-year period have been completely illegal, not to mention the particular circumstances that existed in the course of that false referendum following the alleged royal coup. These are known historical events. It is a dissatisfaction, on the days when we celebrate and honor the entire country, and especially the youth, the uprising of November, from the Step of the House, to the appointment of the dictator Papadopoulos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u48	Your name has not been mentioned. Mr. Pappa, we will not turn the constitutional review into a dispute of this type.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u49	Just for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u50	No, I'm not giving you the floor. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u51	Are you afraid of dialogue, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u52	Have a seat, Mr. Pappa. He won't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute! You do this to all the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u54	No, it can't. You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u55	You do this to all the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u56	You have no right, sir. You don't have anything personal either. No, we're not doing this here, arena.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u57	Wait a minute! This won't pass unanswered! The nerve belongs to Mr. Voutsi. He's a disgusting, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u58	All right, let go of these now, because you're making your position worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u59	The state keeps up and there are laws and decisions. The nerve is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u60	Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor. Please turn off the microphone to Mr. Poppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u61	You're making raw intervention! Urgent intervention!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u62	Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u63	Unfortunately, civil parliamentary democracy is so spacious that even junta sermons can be said here. There is, however, the following question: why is the constitutional review taking place now? Is it a move that serves some election purposes - as the New Democracy and the PASOK say - or is it a strategic choice on the part of the government serving specific objectives of the urban political system, the system in general? We say that the second is a choice dictated by a number of needs, modern needs of the system for the proper functioning - as you say - of the system. Of course, this flexibility for the people means generalised arrhythmia, insecurity and an attack on life and its rights. We do not overlook the fact that there are other kinds of intentions, pre-election and communication, to stimulate the kalapian bipartite struggle between the SYRIZA and the New Democracy in particular, and to hide their great shocks, which concern both the economy and the Memorandums, the anti-linguistic laws - which concern foreign policy - the European Union, NATO - but also the issue that we are debating today. Because despite the fights and here you coincide on a number of issues. And this coincidence shows exactly the strategic changes that are being attempted. After all, no constitutional revision has ever been made of a government's micro-participatory purposes, but because that is why the needs for the stability of the bourgeois power were dictated. In fact, most of the time, the urban constitution, which guarantees capitalist relations of production, the interests of the bourgeoisie, its international alliances, comes back to reflect in legal form a need that has already been formulated in the course of things. Also, time is not random for this review. Previous revisions have already brought forward a number of changes in the field of the economy, the freedom to act on capital, which was the subject of integration into the Euro-Union market. Accordingly, the validity of European Union law has been strengthened by previous revisions, not only in relation to the formal laws, but also to the Constitution itself. On the basis of this framework, the Memorandums, the Commission, the anti-grassroots measures in favour of capital emanating from the European Union and applying to all Member States were implemented. Once again, the bilingualism of the government seems. On the one hand, it speaks of supranational centres - we are not talking about supranational centres, we are talking about coalitions in urban states, about transnational alliances, where every bourgeois class is involved on the basis of its power - which make decisions in the interpretation of peoples. On the other hand, however, SYRIZA, not only does it not touch the constitutional provisions which guarantee the validity of these centres, but it has also become their best ally, whether we are talking about the European Union and the deepening discussion that is currently taking place, whether we are talking about NATO, where there you have given your change and gone beyond New Democracy and the PASOK. What are the main objectives of the government in the constitutional revision? The ones that the Prime Minister described in his speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. As he said "our proposal creates conditions of political stability, as it facilitates the continuation of governments and makes it difficult for the early end of the parliamentary term". So here's the first target. This is the centre of weight of the constitutional review: government political stability, government policy continuity, that is to say, not to disturb the exercise of the dominant policy by a number of factors, including the people, their movement, the people and the pressure they can exert and must exercise towards governments. You are trying to achieve this by changing the way the President of the Republic is elected and by a possible election by the people, who will objectively strengthen his role in the civil system, but also by your proposal for distrust, which proposes that the vote of distrust should not lead to a fall in government and possible early elections, but either reject and continue a government that lost the majority or seek new arrangements without elections. And the impressive thing is that this reactionary shape shows it as an example of democracy. In fact, you want to go ahead with a series of adjustments to the way the urban political system operates, taking into account that the present correlation does not allow for the creation of stable mono-party governments as was the case in the past. Hence the anguish and yours and the New Democracy of government stability. Hence your coincidence, with any variations in this part, especially as regards the election of the President of the Republic. Secondly, on the basis of Mr Tsipras's words again, the aim is to regain the credibility of the political system, namely to restore his authority in the eyes of the people, a prestige which was particularly shaken because of the crisis and the measures, but also the inconsistency of speeches and works, in which SYRIZA has failed. To show that this system is being refined and moralized. We say that it is supposedly alienated and moralized, because, no matter how much you do, this system is so rotten that it cannot be rectified or cleaned up. And this attempt goes hand in hand with the well-known theory that emerged in the years of the crisis, according to which for the manifestation of the capitalist crisis and its negative consequences in the life of the people it is the way the political system operates, a theory that acquits capitalism, its lawfulness, the market, competition, monopolies, with which the misappropriation, the takeover, the involvement with political personnel and all that this theory does is to throw water into the mill and demagogy of reactionary and fascist forces. In this context, the various proposals are included, as are the proposal to change the law on the liability of Ministers, which of course does not have a reasonable person who does not agree, so as to remove all the obstacles which exist in equal treatment with ordinary citizens. And when we say all the obstacles, we do not only mean the limitations that exist in your proposal, but all the obstacles, as do the reliance of referral by a government majority. The third objective of the government, on which it is attempting to set up the bipolar fight with New Democracy, is to forge with slogans - falsifications, we say - the deepening of democracy, the protection of social rights, the so-called anti-neoliberal agenda, through proposals for referendums, public control of energy and water, collective agreements and so on. One could say here simply that it is courageous for SYRIZA to speak of democracy and social protection when it was this political force that made the 2015 referendum, which implemented a series of legislative acts and urgent bills, which brought about a regulation that made great obstacles to the right to strike, which triggered the New Democracy memorandum a few days ago, on the basis of which the minimum wage would not be set by collective bargaining, but by a government's decision, which at the same time as it talks about a people's legislative initiative, the proposals of the parties - the JRC, in this case, which were also a proposal of five hundred labour unions - still locked in drawers of miners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you only ring the bell to me. I'd like some more time. But in this part of your proposals something much more substantial and much more important than SYRIZA's hypocrisy is reflected. The same hypocrisy of urban democracy and its constitution is reflected. And today, in the Constitution, there are provisions on the right to work, the residence, the strike, the right to assemble, which, of course, even this imprint was the result of the struggle of the working people's movement, but also the ability of urban democracy to incorporate claims as long as a real radical movement is not formed. However, these references to the Constitution have not, at all, prevented all these years of unemployment from reaching the heights, people's housing to be taxed and confiscated, strikes to get out of the majority of them illegal and abusive, or to send forces of repression and insurers, such as these cases we have had in recent days, at workers' gatherings. There has also been nothing to prevent the existence of Article 16 from creating a whole market in higher education with the European Union's directives, with colleges, with the public university operating as an enterprise itself. And today the New Democracy comes from a reactionary viewpoint and asks to leave the middle and any formal obstacles and adapt the Constitution to the anti-popular reality that has been formed. Why? Because recognition of these rights becomes an empty shirt, since at the same time there is a set of clauses, windows, exceptions, executive laws that effectively circumvent these rights to protect the supreme law, which is capitalist profit, ownership in the means of production, exploitation relationships and ultimately the dictatorship of capital. And this law, the supreme law, appears when as a public interest, when as a public security, when as something else. The most recent example is the case with the cuts of pensioners, where the government appeals to appeal to appeals in the name of the public interest, budgetary discipline, to legitimise the cuts, not its own cuts, but to legitimise the cuts made by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. Even more typical is the very notion of equality or of popular sovereignty behind the general electoral right, because - badly lies - it is not equal to the worker, the unemployed, the bio-populist, who has all the wealth, business, the media and can influence and manipulate people, labour consciousness. At the same time, the government goes beyond semi-temporary overtime modernizations that have taken place for centuries in other countries, such as the complete separation of State - Church, and adds to this part, beyond constitutional hugism, and a business hugging through the Church Creation Fund, adding to it questionable areas and legitimising the occasional claims of the Church. Even the simple analogue - which, of course, you want for other reasons - brings it to hell, since you give it the possibility to distribute 10% of seats, i.e. thirty seats, not proportionally, but obviously as bonuses to the first party in question. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, is fighting in today's conditions to broaden popular democratic rights. Indicatively, the proposals we have put forward to protect and widen the right to strike, abolish the terrorists and other such provisions, but which were rejected by the 'democraticly sensitive' SYRIZA - ANEL government. These objectives are promoted by our daily struggle, because the fight of the people and not supposedly change from above is the factor that can preserve these rights. From this point of view we also take part in the review process, we call for changes to the Constitution, such as Article 48 and the Reactive Law on Siege Status, Articles 28 and 80, concerning the assignment of powers to transnational alliances and interpret the Constitution in the light of Euro-Union law, Article 27 on the presence of foreign military-based forces in Greece, Article 107 on the protection of foreign and logistics capital, which are, of course, articles which neither you nor any other party are in the process of revision. We have no illusions that there can be a progressive, participatory or democratic constitution within the framework of today's power. Indeed, the people can become the ruler when they own the wealth they produce. In this context of a new social organisation, there can be populous institutions of governance, power, a higher form of democracy based on places of work, organized at local, regional and pan-Hellenic level, in a primitive form of direct participation, control, hereditary, accountability and revocation of elected representatives of the people, which is based above all on the abolition of human exploitation. The people have the right to fight in such a direction and they also have the power to impose it. After all, the stress to ensure political stability shows a concern about political instability. This instability must not only be feared by the people, but must take advantage of it in their own interests to prevent measures from being taken against them, to detract from everything that can and above all, in order to form a connection and conflict conditions, to overthrow the rotten capitalist system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-eight students and students and two educational escorts from the 5th Petroupoli General School. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Katsikis has the floor from the ANELs. Mr Katsiki, try to respect as much time as you can, because I see tolerance is expanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u65	I shall, Madam President, comply with your suggestions, despite the fact that you have often wronged me when I ask for the floor on staff and do not give him to me. Charming it. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are discussing the fourth series of revisions of the Constitution, only ten years after the third and last constitutional revisions of 2008. And on this point let me make a brief historical regression to the previous constitutional reforms, beginning to say that the restoration of democratic legitimacy in July 1974 would not have the prospect of survival except by consolidating democracy. The then formed government of national unity under Constantine Karamanlis immediately restored the Constitution of 1952 with the exception of the provisions concerning the king. On 7 June 1975 the new Constitution was passed in the country whose maximum and essential provision was to establish the constitution as a Presiding Parliamentary Republic. This Constitution gathered during the implementation of the broad acceptance by all the political forces of the country, despite the fact that it had only been passed by the MPs of the ruling party at the time. The establishment and adaptation of the requirements of the many individual and social rights times has made it one of the most comprehensive constitutional texts. A key element of this constitution was the decisive powers conferred on the President of the Republic, giving him the opportunity to take decisive action in regulating the political life of the country. The so-called "superiority" with which the President of the Republic was surrounded, with tops of them the right to stop the government and dismantle Parliament, made more than just regulation of the constitution. The reform of 1986 therefore introduced a centralised function of the civil society by transferring the presidential responsibilities to the government and the Prime Minister by giving them decisive responsibilities. On 6 April 2001, the second revision, which was also described as a 'consensual review', was passed, since a large majority was accepted by 4/5 of all Members by rendering the political reality of this period. The most central feature of this review was Greece's ever agreed majority participation in European integration. Parliament and justice have also been regulated, reformed the institution of the criminal liability of ministers and a presumption of competence in favour of local government agencies for the administration of local and common local affairs. Finally, 2008 has been a limited area revision for a small number of provisions. Of the most important I would consider the abolition of the professional incompatibility of Members established in 2001, the addition of mountain and island regions to the care of the ordinary legislature and the provision of a special procedure for monitoring by the House of Enforcement of the Budget. So by reaching today and by participating the Independent Greeks in the top political and parliamentary process, we have tabled our proposals for articles that, in our view, need to be reviewed. As our proposals wear several articles, the content of which will be analysed in detail during the meetings of the committee responsible set up, today I will be content with the outline of our positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the article on freedom of the press. We consider it ideologically essential that the media themselves make public of the composition of their property regime, their financial situation and the means of financing them. Any media loan we propose to obey common credit rules and do not have privileged ads. As regards the persons referred to in paragraph, they should be subject to the prohibitions provided for in that Article. By expressing the popular demand for the restoration of social justice, we propose changing the article on criminal offences which have been committed by Ministers and State Secretarys in the performance of their duties in order to answer, like all citizens in the ordinary courts, without any involvement of the House. I would remind you that we, as Independent Greeks, have tabled a proposal for a law to change the regime for the responsibility of the Ministers. We also propose changes to the article on Members' election and election rights. We propose that the Greeks should have the right to vote in the countries where they live, that they should have legal status and that half-members of the territory should be elected, that is, six of the twelve whose number should come from the same family. The President of our Republic is his direct election by the people, and we will also propose that his responsibilities be strengthened, but without our citizens changing to the President-in-Office. Another major chapter, which we will discuss in detail in detail, relates to the changes that we believe should be adopted in the field of education. We propose the operation of higher education institutions of a non-profit nature, which, in return for their licence, will provide 15% of students' positions in the form of a scholarship, in order to help economically weaker citizens and multiple families. We consider it essential that changes be made to justice as well, in order to overcome problems linked either to the speed of awarding it or to the possibility of accessing every citizen to a secondary court with the minimum possible costs. We therefore propose that secondary justice should be fully affordable by all citizens for all cases, except those concerning insurance measures. We believe that, for reasons of a more correct administration of justice, the creation of the secondary court should be restored to its earlier multi-faceted composition, given that its decisions are final and final. In addition, our proposals are to have social control over the promotion and evaluation of judges, while the felonies are proposing to be tried by mixed judiciary and not just by ordinary judges. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that the Independent Greeks, by detecting the needs of the Greek society and the requirements of the future, believe that structural changes are necessary and necessary. The need of the times requires areas of constitutionality, so that the executive and the government are controlled throughout governance, that the people's sovereignty is expressed not only by the national elections every end of the four years, but also directly manifested by institutionalised accountability procedures that are already successfully applied to other European countries, that the judicial authority is free from its relationship with the executive, so that it can control the latter effectively and in the public interest. In this context we have tabled our proposals, which we will also support during the work of the Constitutional Review Committee, based on the guiding principles, values and lines of our movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Mr Mavrotas from the river now has the floor. Mr Megalamoustakas will then be given the floor from the Association of Centres and the Independent MP Mr Nicholopoulou, and then the second cycle of speakers will begin. Here you go, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. If we do not have too much expectations, I will say that it is not the Constitution for the Crisis, nor will it save us from the crisis. The Constitution, however, can give directions. The Constitutional Review process is therefore a leading moment in the parliamentary process. We are fundamentally revising the Charter, that is, the framework within which this House will legislate, by adapting it to modern data. It is therefore the most consensual parliamentary procedure - or at least that should be - because it extends to two parliamentary periods. We are now voting on what provisions will be revised and in what direction and the next House will be voting on the precise content of these provisions. Constitutional changes inevitably have a longer period than political changes. The opportunity we have mustn't be lost. That is why, in this two-month process, there must be an honest dialogue, coolness, sobriety, and not one should be tampered with in its ideological trenches, because, if we fail to reach agreement, then let us understand that we will be a failure. A brave Review should enshrine Greece as a modern secular European state whose economy would be liberated from the suffocating strife of stateism. There are changes to the provisions of the Constitution, which seems to be overcrowded, and from the debate so far there is some consensus on it, such as the provisions on the responsibilities of political persons, Article 86 on the responsibility of the Ministers or Article 62 on parliamentary immunity. It is also a common place to determine the need for stability of the electoral cycle and its decoupling from the presidential election. SYRIZA's proposal also raises several issues of direct participation by citizens in decision-making, such as referendums, presidential election, simple analogues. Does it sound good to talk to the people, to talk to the direct democracy, but we are sure that it will be implemented well? Stavros Tsakirakis wrote in 2016 about the referendums: "The deficit of modern democracy is not that citizens are heard, but that public dialogue is superficial, that all matters are raised by referendum, in the form of "white or black", "yes or not". The deficit of modern democracy is the lack of effective participation of citizens, which requires information and a serious dialogue." He continued: "I am afraid that the triumph of forms of direct democracy is increasingly a triumph of populism." Unfortunately, we have experienced this both in the 2015 referendum and in Brexit and in the Catalan referendums, that is, not only in our country. There are issues in which the Potami supports this proposal, such as the distinct roles of the State - Church that we believe will be in the interests of both, both of the Church and of the State. How, for example, are distinct roles or religious neutrality, when state education is intended to develop religious conscience, on the basis of today's Article 16(2). An article which, unfortunately, we do not see in SYRIZA's proposals and we wonder: does SYRIZA not want its distinct roles or exceed them in order not to revise the 'tubou' article, Article 16, which prohibits the establishment of non-state universities? I understand SYRIZA's difficulty in touching a matter that's in his DNA. But the theory of evolution is about adapting to the environment. And since Mr. Paradigmopoulos also referred to Heraklion, I would remind him that Heraklitos said "everything flows", a saying that we very much like at Potami. And when you're the only country in the world with this world originality, it's not a string, it's probably we're the wrong ones. Already I hear the voices of various friendly media in SYRIZA talking about "neo-liberal" Mavrotas, who wants the commercialization of knowledge. I remember those chips for 30 years. But, ladies and gentlemen, is it neoliberal to be able to set up a university school, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation or the Onasio, which has already been hospitalized? What does Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis say, working in harmony with this institution, to build the Metabolic Center? Do we trust them in these institutions our lives and do we not trust them with our studies? Is it neoliberal and Venezuela that has twenty-four non-state universities? Today, instead of discussing the standards that non-State universities should have, we are still discussing whether they should be created. Let us therefore speak as a first step on non-profit-making private-law legal entities. We should also put in the law that 10% to 20% of students, for example, will be with scholarships so that they can also study independently of their performance. Let us also say that they will be evaluated and certified, like the public, on the basis of a public independent authority such as the IPO, which you have devalued in recent times. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In such terms and safeguards, there are no more excuses, not even ideologies based on ideologies. And I say these things that I'm not a porphyrogen. I finished the public school, went to a public university, became a professor at a public university, my children went to a public school, and now they're students at the Greek public university. I haven't sent it out, I haven't sent it to private people, because I trust it, and I have no insecurity for the public university. I know the good public university has nothing to fear from the non-state. The fear you have expressed, that the public nature of higher education will be affected, is completely unsatisfactory, since their funding and non-State universities are complementary and not competitive with public. I am also convinced that if the field is opened for non-State universities too, public funds will also be improved because of the comparison and the talk that will be developed. Unless we're afraid of comparison and maybe there's a dogmatic reaction. And if that is not the case now, it will have to enter the next revision, namely start in 2024 and need two parliamentary periods, that is, to go near 2030, to legislate. By then we will see thousands of children every year leaving abroad, hundreds of teachers and researchers migrating and you will cry with crocodile tears for Brain Drain. The country will bleed rather than develop a very dynamic part of it, a comparative advantage. It'll be another proof that ideoscopy costs and costs expensive. Those who provoke the deafness of the professional rights of such schools almost unresponsively swallow the camel of those who come today from private universities in Cyprus, Bulgaria, etc. or even Internet diplomas. So dare take this first step. Progressive means tolerance to the new. A progressive government must not be afraid to open up. An idealist, yes, he'll be afraid. We will have time to discuss these in committee as well and to see one in one of the arguments put forward by Mr Paradoxopoulos. It will be interesting to hear the views of the other parties. Even the ANELs, your co-pilots, feel that Article 16 needs to be changed. We have other proposals for the constitutional review, such as the revision of Article 110, which we believe in a more flexible review process, but which will not be sloppy and impatient. For example, the five-year freeze does not apply to the entire Constitution, but only to the provisions that have recently been revised. The vote of the Greeks abroad at their place of residence, we believe, as a constitutional requirement for the state, and not as a mere possibility, should be introduced. We also believe that we should put elements of climate change, biodiversity, animals, respect for the environment in general, namely the third pillar of sustainable development together with economic development and social cohesion, so that the principles of sustainability are visible to the country's basic charter. In conclusion, we will seek consent not only in terms of the list of articles to be reviewed, but also in terms of their revision. That's not my word. They are the ones on page 5 of the SYRIZA proposal. If we do not stand up to the circumstances and incorporate the whole process into the micropolitical game, we have lost. We'll all be counted on responsibility. If we give ideologically and not rationally to the debate, then we will build walls. If the debate is taken to highlight our differences and not to take them, we will collide with them. If the debate on the constitutional review takes place with a look at the next elections and not in the next generations, we will be backwards. If we put her in the election cohort, we'll fail. Revision of the constitution is not a parliamentary process that will have winners and losers or rather - it depends on us - it can develop into a process with all of us winners or all of us defeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u68	Mr Anastassios Megalamus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech today, I will make a detailed statement of our positions on the draft that has been given to us. The policy of our party will be expressed more specifically by our President. So, looking at the four axes of the proposed constitutional review, it is easy to see why the government is trying to carry out a pragmatic revision of the Constitution - we would say - and not radical changes, and I would explain why I say that. Starting with Articles 3 and 13 and the effort to safeguard the religious neutrality of the state, on the one hand, reasonable questions are raised about the concept of religious neutrality and, on the other hand, on the basis of Article 13 of the Constitution, the freedom of religious conscience is fully protected, while proselyticism is prohibited. So I don't understand why to make such a move. In Europe there are other states such as Cyprus, Denmark, England, Malta, Norway. In Germany, churches are recognised and act as legal entities governed by public law. Religious teaching is permitted in schools. The Orthodox Church is recognized in Russia as a great benefactor in the formation of the Russian nation and has special treatment. It is clear that in all the above countries, which are bound by the relevant rules of the European Convention on Human Rights, the privileged relationship between a State and a religion in no way conflicts with the full protection of human rights. Why do we want to stand out? In fact, in the above states, there is no such peculiarity that exists in Greece, this historical relationship of a state - religion with the strong features of our case. For all these reasons, therefore, we do not believe in any real social need, but in micro-political games. On the contrary, what we believe is that such a move will cause division in Greek society and there will also be a breach in the Greek conscience of the Greeks. Also, to point out that economic relations between the state and church are an independent issue from that of religious neutrality. We can move on to that. It is very important to mention that religious neutrality creates real and legal questions which concern and concern the coherence of the constitution and the protection of the mutual interests of the state and of the church, such as religious neutrality, which seems to us to be incompatible with the preserved wording of the Constitution in the name of the Holy and Omposite Trinity. The Church of Greece and its entities are legal entities governed by public law, such as legal entities governed by public law, are the Central Israeli Council of Greece and the Muslim Muffetas. The status of all the others will change? You do not clarify that. It is obvious that religious neutrality is contrary to the status of religious organizations as legal entities governed by public law. Through Article 3 of the Constitution, a link is established between the Greek state through the church as a public body with the Fhanari. So from now on, if there is a problem, how will Greece intervene? Have you thought about it? Have you wondered what will happen? With regard to the amendment of the provisions of Articles 21, 22 and 28 we are initially positive, and with regard to Articles 30, 32, 34, 35 and 41 we want to say that the inability for Parliament to elect a President of the Republic reveals a political controversy between the parties that are vigilant. There is therefore no possibility of consulting each other, which normally leads to the dissolution of the House, as has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Bigfoot, I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three teachers from the 2nd General School of Messologists. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Bigfoot. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u71	We therefore want this regime to continue and not to disconnect the Parliament from the President's election, as it will only work properly. We cannot imagine a Greek Parliament in which there is no climate of understanding and understanding at all. In any case, the appeal to elect a president to the Greek people cannot be accepted by us, since it ignores the status of the electorate as the supreme institution of our democratic culture. With regard to Rule 37 now, namely paragraph 2, which proposes that the Prime Minister should necessarily be an active MEP, we as a Centro Association cannot accept it. We have talked too many times about large global governments that could also be the ministers and the Prime Minister as well as about being technocrats. So we couldn't accept it. With regard to Articles 38 and paragraph 1 and Article 84, the proposed amendment is seen as inadmissible again. The introduction of the constructive vote of censure, according to which the motion of censure against the government should be accompanied by the appointment of a new Prime Minister, creates an impossibility for the opposition to finally drop the government. We cannot see how you judge this right, but we are in no way advocating this action. Now, in terms of Article 44 and paragraph 2, in the way that is currently the case, the referendum is only opened up. So you come to tell us that a referendum can be held if a million or five hundred thousand signatures are raised. See what's going on outside. Italy, for example, needs five hundred thousand signatures, while Switzerland, with six million, needs fifty thousand signatures. You, as you do, clearly state to us that you do not intend to give the people the power to decide on very important issues, as you have already shown. In addition, the fact that the proposal includes a provision that, in the event of a dispute over whether a request for a popular referendum concerns a critical national issue or a bill of national interest, the House may vote against it. Therefore, citizens - because we are Parliament - are committed to Parliament. You're not actually giving them any power at all. You need to change this if you want to defend our democratic citizenship. Now, with regard to Rule 54 and paragraph 1 and the addition of paragraph 4 and an interpretative statement, we disagree with the registration of the implementation of the proportional or proportional electoral system in the parliamentary elections. The Centro Association calls for simple, unadulterated proportions with the abolition of the fifty-seat bonuses, but also any other bonuses that the government would get as a gift to finally get us to agree in here, that is what the Greek society wants. As regards the election of Members of the Greek Parliament, the proposed amendment seems rather unrealistic and we are asking for the possibility for all people, all Greeks who live abroad to have the right to vote. Now for Rule 56 and the addition of paragraph 5, the introduction of a temporary blockade of election for those who have been MPs in three successive parliamentary periods is in agreement with us. In fact, we would ask for retrospective strength so that we can change Parliament's image and perhaps - and I hope - the image that the Greeks have of us. We therefore agree with this amendment, its addition and call for its retroactive effect. With regard to Article 62... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a little more time, as there were a lot of articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u72	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. The European Parliament has found that Article 62 of the Constitution allows the Greek Parliament to refuse the waiver of immunity of a Member only if the acts rendered to him are undoubtedly linked to his parliamentary activity. Therefore, we do not see as a problem if there will be a permit within three months, but what offences should be allowed and what is not, what is undoubtedly linked to parliamentary activity and what is not. As regards Article 73, the proposed provision is positive from us. In Article 86, paragraph 3, and the addition of an interpretative statement, we are also positive to it, as to Article 101a for the independent authorities. In no case do we agree with Article 102 in paragraph 2, since we believe that a proportionate system of election should also be laid down in the TAs. To conclude, I would also like to mention some of the proposals from the Centres Union, which we will discuss in detail in committee. We call for the Constitutional Court to be established. We want to reduce Members to a hundred and fifty by amending Rule 51 of the Constitution, and now, if you want to, directly, reduce them from three hundred to two hundred. We also want the public prosecutors' participation to be compulsory, drawn by the Prosecutors and the Court of Auditors, in all awards of public works and public supply contracts exceeding EUR 1 000 000. This is very important. We must not give anyone the chance to put his hand in the jar with honey. That's how we think we're gonna fight corruption. And we think this will help to change the image they have - as I said before - the citizens to our face. We also urgently request that Article 86 be changed for the criminal liability of the ministers. And finally, we need to open up the subject of private universities. You cannot hide behind your leftlessness and see Greece, which so much needs productive reconstruction, economic recovery, cannot exploit a very strong legacy that has been delivered to it so that we can help our country develop, change and see our citizens on a white day at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u74	Mr Nicholas Nikos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the revision of the Constitution will bring about the great and radical areas needed by the country. From the outset, I am clear that I am an remaining number of irresponsible public figures who are opposed to the irrationalisation of the attitude of life and behaviour of people - the tendency to abolish any national peculiarities of the people on the basis of the service clearly or, as a Kawaii would have expressed, unspeakably selfish goals and interests - which we feel for our homeland in inflammation and which we believe is our religion that it is the one that has helped to save the treasure of the language from its origin to a vain in the four hundred years of slavery. And this kind of saved our national identity, which is today being tested by the enormous challenges of globalisation and homogenisation. Is it a paradox of what we have been clothing in the slows of the whole centuries our national identity and have to this day kept the reflexes of our soul vigilant? Do they need a review of what constitutes the recorded memory of our nation, namely, that of our own history? The constitutional review must take into account the specificities of our nation. It is not a simple reproduction of foreign systems such as relations between Church and State. In the centuries-old tradition Orthodoxy was and is for the Greeks the supporter of the nation and a cultural good worthy. The legacy of Grandma and Grandpa is an ark of obscuration, rescue and transfer of the Greek language and tradition. Nikos Engonopoulos stressed this. He once said the famous: "I don't know if I'm a Christian. But Orthodox, I am definitely." He said it to show that even the absence of religiousity does not erase the cultural connection of the Greek with his religious tradition. In the system of prevailing religion that we Greek Christian Democrats support, all churches are equal. But the prevailing religion enjoys some privileges as the first among equals for reasons of historical and practical, such as official celebrations, calendar, religious symbols in public spaces. Religious religion and respect for all religions have certainly been fully constitutionalized for years. Therefore, Article 3 and the preamble to the Constitution have a symbolic character. The Constitution in this regard incorporates the collective wisdom, the wisdom of our nation, and does not need any revision. The main issue arising from Article 3 is the constitutional protection of the normal status and the international position of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, which means that Greece recognises its international legal personality. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece therefore considers any intervention and change unacceptable. The reference to the distinct roles of the State-Church is improper and misleading since the state legislates freely, unreservedly and out of the church, and even several times against its dogmas (e.g. automatic divorce, political marriage, cohabitation agreement between homosexuals and heterogeneous couples, burning dead and others. On the contrary, in view of the discussions on the new State-Church agreement, it becomes crucial to safeguarding the interests of the church and the sacred clergy with constitutional revision. This is not strengthened if we take into account the ambiguous statements even of the President of the Civil Liberation Officer. I read the last paragraph to you from the official written announcement by Mr Mitsotakis: 'Let the agreement not be exhausted in a pragmatic disconnection of the clerics' payroll from the state.' What do you understand, ladies and gentlemen? What does he mean? What is the point of asking Mr. Mitsotakis to do? Under these considerations, therefore, the payment of the proposed subsidy should be guaranteed under the increased formality of a constitutional provision. We believe that the condition that the parties' commitments will apply subject to compliance with the agreement as a whole ensures that the State is unequivocally independent in so far as the church is unable to establish rules of law, as the changing government majorities can do. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal to revise Article 21 on strengthening the institution of the family for the purpose of extending the social state, which is in principle agreed upon, we must point out the following risks: we will not consent to the removal of the family's designation as the basis of the promotion and maintenance of the nation. This is because the structure of the family is linked to the form of the wider foundations of society. It is the natural method and first stage in the development of the state, the first hierarchically structured society for the individual. Parental law is the first law and relations between family members are firstly living, racial, moral, collaborative. In conclusion, we will become partners in the country's progress towards the future with areas that strengthen democracy, Parliament and strengthen legitimacy within it, but also with respect for the particular characteristics and history of this holy place. I would also like to refer to the provisions of Article 86 of the Constitution. Of course we say yes, to be abolished. In addition, the control of party funding needs to be tightened up and systemified. In this respect, it is proposed to set up an independent authority to monitor the financing of parties guaranteed by the Constitution and its independent operation and mission. Finally, the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution with a view to allowing private universities or non-profit-making - anyway, in whatever form we give it - to be matured, but also to be a necessary treaty and condition. Our children should stop migrating to thousands abroad with a view to a better academic future. Our country has high scientific staff and infrastructure to host private universities. It is time for action. As I said before, the Christian Democratic Party of Greece comes with concrete proposals for major institutional changes that will be presented in detail in the next few weeks to the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u76	President Evangelos Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the process of reviewing the Constitution mean under Article 110 mean? It means that the Constitution ceases to communicate with history, that is to say, it ceases to ensure our relationship with the long history of time for a short transitional period, unlocks the strictness of the Constitution, remains pending and therefore we are called upon to confirm that our democracy is not short-term, but can think and act with its minds in history, except that this relationship of democracy and history ensures it. It is therefore very important that the reform process should not jeopardise the strictness of the Constitution and the constitutional acquis, but ultimately confirm it, that the institutional balances of the Constitution which are neither left-wing nor right-wing nor progressive nor conservative are not altered. It is a constitution of national, spacious that is ready to welcome and regulate all the democratic choices of the Greek people, since they move within the framework of European representative, liberal democracy, democracy which is the great conquest of modernity. How is that guaranteed? It is ensured by the existence of post-majority guarantees that dominate the Constitutional Review process. The Review requires a review consensus in both stages of the procedure, and in the first Parliament that finds the need in the second House, which is literally the Revision. The will of the electorate is mediated. If the question of the revision is not predominant in the elections, but it is secondary or third, that is a choice of the parties and ultimately a choice of the Greek people. However, the people are called upon to vote in the elections that are taking place, and that is why I am starting with the fundamental element of the revision. The Constitution allows majority voting to be changed. If a provision is found to have to be revised in this House by a hundred and eighty votes, the next Parliament shall contribute to the revision by a hundred and fifty one votes, by the simple parliamentary majority, by the government majority. This allows the Constitution as an opportunity, when there is political and constitutional culture, when there is consensus, when there is a real, broad agreement, otherwise the basic rule applies, that the first Parliament finds the need to revise it with less than eighty votes, and the second Parliament contributes to the revision by 3/5, with an increased majority, because consensus is not voluntary, it is a constitutional obligation. If the perception prevails that without agreeing on the substance, without being sure, without having real consensus, without having a common cultural reference, institutional and constitutional, we are seeing the need to revise the first House with an eighty-eight and the next does what it wants to do at once with a hundred and fifty-one, we have canceled the strictness of the Constitution, we have put at risk the great acquis of modernity and the great acquis of post-population. From 1975 to today only a review consensus was ensured in 2001. In 1975, the Constitution was passed with the Opposition to have left a block. In 1986, the Review was passed at the time of the Qualified Opposition to have left aggregation. In 2001 - while all the provisions had been revised by a hundred and eighty votes in 1998, with the sole exception of the way the President of the Republic was elected - we asked for all consent, not a hundred and eighty, but two hundred and fifty - seventy votes and we obtained it. This was not only in Article 32, only in the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, which has not been revised and the country has paid and paid this very expensive since 2015. I am therefore pleased that SYRIZA's formal proposal is more modest than initial ideas and proposals. I am pleased that it has been abandoned - I hope, definitively - the unconstitutional theory of the so-called consultative referendum on the Review and the Review has come to Parliament, to the competent body and then to the people, the institution responsible for elections and then again to Parliament, which is the competent body. Only we must be aware of the problems that await us and are in front of us. The country has lived and lives a long-term economic crisis. Tough measures have been taken and taken. The country also tolerated one of the reasons for this is that it had a Constitution, which regulated the change of political system, the change of parliamentary relations, the change of social stratification, the change of attitudes. The fact that the Constitution tolerated such pressures and such changes shows the quality of our Constitution and our culture. Where did the Constitution work negatively? Only in the mandatory dissolution of the House in January 2015. I explained the reasons before and I think we've all become wiser now. Besides, there's the late theory of the clean mind. What is our main experience from the nine years of the crisis, which is silenced in SYRIZA's proposal? That there need to be constitutional rules of budgetary awareness and that there is a risk of fiscal diversion at the expense of the country and of the citizens, and that must be a constitutional rule of clear and national ownership. Because we have signed the Treaty on Cooperation, Stability and Governance, the new Financial Pact, which provides for the obligation for the Member States of the euro area to respect the financial rule, namely the ceiling for a financial deficit. But we, with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, have, in any case, accepted excessive primary surpluses, not until 2022, but by 2060. This agreement between all the Member States of the Eurozone on the Financial Rule applies to us, with increased legal effect, because of Article 28(1). This must not be guaranteed constitutionally, along with the independence of the Bank of Greece, so that we have basic mechanisms for consciousness of the problems and not lie in the world or for developing an irresponsible constitutional tactism, a rhetoric that has proved to be very dangerous, why is it discouraging the faith of citizens in the Constitution and undermining constitutional patriotism? On the contrary, unfortunately I see in this proposal, but also in other ideas in public life many elements of rhetoric and demagogy are, as if the Constitution were a proclamatory text, which means nothing legal, nothing practical, so we can give constitutional promises. We've done this before, it's always been material. The constitutional texts, which are not only mechanical, have a rhetoric, but it must be painless, must strengthen individual rights, democracy, the rule of law. When it creates illusions financially, fiscally, it can, through case law, through judicial control of the constitutionality of laws, lead to a budgetary diversion and call into question the very functioning of the constitution. It is therefore very important that there are no elements of rhetoric and constitutional populism. The worst form of populism is constitutional populism. Why, what happens when you adopt constitutional populism provisions? Or you break them for reasons of economic need, and you degrade the Constitution or you respect them and you destroy the country. Isn't this a tragic dilemma? After ten years of crisis, should we be confronted with this dilemma again? In any case, let us not forget that the situation is extremely burdensome. We don't have a consensual climate here. Here we have acidification, polarization, tensions, manipulation of justice. This is where we have huge problems of endurance of the banking system. We have before us the consequences of overcrowding and, therefore, overtaxation, which has dissolved the middle class and prevents the country from turning back, because without national savings, without financing investment, without stability, there is neither a return to markets nor a growth that exceeds the anemic limit of 1.5% -2%, after ten years of accumulated recession. This is where the consensual procedure - supposedly - begins, and we are told that there is an investigation into the accounts of Costas Simitis. In other words, some want to tarnish the emblematic face of the country's European acquis. They are in vain, but they are exposed and exposed to justice! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Unfortunately, however we have experienced this experience, we have not escaped the elements of constitutional populism. It is so simple to say that we seek consensually the President of the Republic with an increased majority, but after two votes, after six votes, we go to the people in direct elections. It'll take each other the victory and the defeat. The government does not dismantle Parliament and elections, but it may lose the election of the President of the Republic. Is this happening elsewhere in Europe? It's happening. Almost everywhere there are problems. See what happens in countries like Romania, the Czech Republic. There are countries of mature institutions which have solved these things, such as Austria, but also other countries which have not solved them. And that's us, who don't have a direct election tradition. Referendums: But after what Mr Tsipras said in Berlin about the self-declared referendum in July 2015, which would be disastrous to implement his outcome, who dares to raise a question of referendum and facilitation even for any agreement that confers sovereign powers on an international organisation? Do you know how many such agreements this House votes every year? Only in order to obtain the loans from the crisis period and the third loan, we should make at least three referendums in this case. Others are referendums and are blocking the implementation of our programmes, for example in Ireland or the Netherlands in previous years. Fixed electoral system: Is it not enough to have the 2/3 to change the electoral system? What greater guarantee can there be? Can we strangle the electoral system, even if the junctures change radically? But we have the bail of two-thirds. The guaranteed standard of living does not exist? Does the Council not invoke this in its pension decisions, in retrospective terms, in order not to cut the second and third memorandums? What do we want to add? A genie for the people? Instead of discussing how to deal with the problem of judicial decisions and the endurance of the insurance system, should we, unfortunately, discuss the lack of an insurance system? Not to mention the last example of the declaration that religious neutrality and dominating religion will coexist in Article 3. And this turns into a small-party trick, that they're supposed to empty ten thousand employees from the priests to understand some other young people who need jobs, whom we respect and fight. But that is a lie, because priests are officials of a legal person governed by public law and do not occupy such organic positions, but their own organic positions. And, of course, the most important thing, which I think is that it is of particular importance for all of us not to make false moves now that it opens up the "Pandora's box" of the review, which will degrade the level of democracy and the rule of law. Unfortunately, the chances of making mistakes are greater than the chances of making improvements in the constitutional text, due to the deterioration in the situation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am ending with this - the fundamental thing is to protect the Constitution, democracy, the institutions and the smooth course of the place, respecting the strictness of the Constitution. No provision shall be found to be revised by a majority exceeding seventy-nine votes. The next House must be a parliament of forced review responsibility and consensus, maintaining the eighty-eight-eight-member guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Aristides Baltas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard Mr Venizelos in a speech which, in my opinion, had two parties. In the first part, the Professor of Constitutional Law spoke, explaining eloquent constitutional procedures. In the second part, a Member spoke, who tried to integrate an entire ideology, which led the country and Europe here that led it, with all the extreme right to emerge - I mean neoliberalism - in an attempt to reduce neoliberalism to a constitutional treaty. This was the essential content of the second part of Mr Venizelos' speech known as "SYRIZA at the time..." and so on. We must leave there and start seeing the Constitution, I believe, in a more long-term perspective, respecting the fact that we are talking about an institution - the Constitution - which defines the ways in which we are politically coexistent in democracy in all countries after Enlightenment. Let's see this more specifically, making a little rhetorical change. Not to talk about Constitutional Review as something that is stereotyped and which in many creates no particular circumstances that cause interest and talk to the active verb. We're working on it. The Greek people through their representatives in Parliament draw up the conditions, the framework within which democracy in our country must move, with respect for everyone. If we look at it this way, we start and see that a constitutional review is required - because it can be created to really be relevant - to the entire Greek people, who in his way, through his representatives, is expressed in this House. At the same time, we should see the Constitution as something longer, outside the relationships of the moment between the political forces, parties, overcrowds in dialogue and so on, so as to see it, as something that can bind the country in the long term and connect this long-term commitment of the country to the fact that it is nearing a date that is heard in the name of '2021', two hundred years from the Greek Revolution that founded the modern Greek state and to think about the revision of the Constitution in such a way that any government can happen to be in things, have a map worthy of this course for two hundred years. If we start there, time is short. A speech can't cover everything. However, it can be seen from all the speeches - at least in terms of SYRIZA - that there is a very clear logic in the procedure of the articles that we are asking for revision. I will devote the rest of my speech to one of the issues it has at the moment strongly on the agenda, the issue of separation of States and of the Church. We know that this question, in a sense, is permanent on the agenda in all the revisions, we know that there are 'played' frictions, tensions, controversies between state-sponsored and Church-speakers and it is time to put this dialogue at least on real foundations. And I believe that in order to put this dialogue on real foundations, there is an essential prerequisite, a cultural prerequisite, which allows for a genuine dialogue between the Church and the state, without creating absolutely any friction at this level. What do I mean? I mean that there is no culture in this world, there is no historical procedure that has resulted in the establishment of a community, a state, an institutional - let us say so - in the form of human history that is not based on a sacred concept. The atheists themselves. Any man who moves in this world has within him a sense of sacredness that makes him just a man. Because the sensation of the sanctuary is linked to the human treaty itself, that is, the fact that man is the only animal who knows that he will die and therefore his life is linked to this knowledge of death. To manage this couple, man from ancient times and in all civilizations has manifested - everyone in his way - something like a sacred. One religion calls it that, another religion calls it different. Those who do not want to religion do so in third ways, but in a sense that goes beyond. So the notion of the sanctuary is a basis on which religions can discuss with each other, the faithful ones can truly discuss with the atheists and so on. In addition, we have a advantage in Greece in this respect, because let us see in our daily lives who - let us say - is the heaviest oath. The heavier oath is the phrase: "To what I have a sanctuary." However, if you say this vow, it does not commit to one or another dogmatic faith, it does not commit to one or the other religion. He commits himself to what he considers sacred with his contents "anything". And vice versa, the biggest charge one can make to someone is "It has no sanctuary and loyal", again without specifying what the sanctuary is and what the content of the oath is. So this distinction, which is deeply rooted in all our traditions, is a basis that allows for the very sincere dialogue between any church, all the churches and the state, without anyone feeling that it is falling into this dialogue. From there on, there is a gospel saying: "The Caesar of the Caesari and the gods." On the one hand, then, there is God, with all the content that gives to this notion either the believer of this religion or the atheist in his way, even though he does not say so, and on the other hand there is Caesar who after modernity is the orderly state of democracy. That's where the realities start. "Realia" means ecclesiastical property, meaning where priests are subjected, by whom they are paid and so on. These realities leave the concept of the sanctuary, of course, because money, apart from neoliberalism - which is the god there for neoliberalism - is not subject to the concept of the sanctuary, and we enter into procedures relating to realities that are dealt with by the courts, laws, the orderly state and so on. I believe that we can find in this Revision of the Constitution ways of making, at the first level, that is to say, Article 3 of the Constitution and related, specific, so that the state can actually become neutralist with all religions, with equal rights, so to speak, in relation to the state. For example, if it is to pay the state priests, pay the priests - as they say - of the other religions, be completely neutral in terms of ceremonies, where there needs to be - a religious ceremony and so on. And, of course, there is also the political oath, where the political oath for state officials at all levels is an oath - a contract of honour, if you want to say so more popular, non-religious - that the State official concludes with the respective state authority. In this sense we can deal with all the remaining problems in full, I think, honesty on both sides. One last thing I want to say, which has not been heard very strongly. Mr Venizelos mentioned it earlier. It is - let us say it - populist view - from the neoliberal side, but, that is, the populism of neoliberalism is far more populist than it blames - that all this is done to leave, allegedly, the budget of the state budget, the funds of the priests' payroll and go to the Church, when the statement itself says that the state will give the Church an equal amount of that amount. Isn't that right? Things are getting a little funny. Let us say, at the same time, that the priests who will thus leave the state's direct financing, as Greek citizens, will have all the rights to care, health, education and so on. Let us also say that the state will ensure that if the Church has the responsibility for financing, the priests will not be demolished by this development, which the wages and so on. These are just technical problems, which can be solved in particular and shared consent between the Church and the state, when we start from a basis that is mutually acceptable, with mutual respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u80	Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think the debate is beginning to get interesting. Indeed, I will take into account the commitment of Mr. Paraskevi, the majority rapporteur, who has warned us that he is looking forward to a debate that will yield the well-known saying of Heraklion 'in advance of everything.' But I have a first reservation, because he did not say the entire phrase. So let's start the creative argument from now. Heraklitos, therefore, said: “There is no use in war on wood, even on trial, and always on debt.” It was therefore forbidden by my fellow Member to refer to 'debts'. And 'demand', of course, is nothing but the fact that everything in life is the product of a conflict - and the trial is still a dispute and the war is common - but everything is done with the awareness that they are products from a conflict, but also with the awareness that everything comes from a need. That is why, Mr Baltas, I would very much like to respond to what you have said, but I would like to tell you in advance that the Constitution is the charter of the state, that is, the rule of rules which regulate the state's operation, what functions are and how they are allocated to the state institutions and what the relations between the state and the citizen are and, above all, what acts the state should be to allow the citizens - to leave them a decent life. The word is that of the Prime Minister, from this welcome - because I shall refer to the end - a speech he made outside Parliament on a red background. There he announced that the great process of Revision of the Constitution began in July 2016, which did not want to limit it to the four walls of Parliament, but would open it to the people. But two years have passed, and no opening has been seen to the people, nor the events that they committed to doing to the municipalities in cooperation with social and scientific bodies, nor did we see the thirteen conventions. That was an offense to reconnect with Mr Balta. So, Mr Balta, it is neither necessary nor necessary in the Constitution to develop all this theory and philosophy of what is sacred and how the sacred exists in history and in the relationship between the person and his faith in any power, but above all how he respects the State on the one hand as a collective unit that is organized and operates collectively, and on the other, how he will recognize every citizen's right to his freedom to believe what he has to believe. But, to come back to Heraklion now, I would really like to point out that in order to be able to make a fruitful and not sterile debate in the parliamentary process aimed at Revision of the Constitution, each of the parties involved should, since it is about reviewing, as we have said, the state, have a clear view of what is a state, about how that state feels, how that state feels. And I would like to ask the majority what is finally a state. Is the realization or the ultimate picture of the speech, as Hegel said? Is it the product of the uncompromising opposition that exists between classes? Is it an instrument of class dominance of one class called bourgeois over the other class called proletariat? Here, then, is what we need to discuss, because, Mr Paradise, you told us that you were feeling this grand manifestation of the parliamentary speech, which is indeed the revision of the constitution, to the point where the Left with democracy will meet here in Parliament. Which Left and in relation to what perception of the state? The one Marx mentioned, for example, in Louis Bonaparte's '18th Brummer'? Or the one that's referring to the Civil War in France? Because that is where you understand that your presence is not the subject of any attempt, because the state that is organizing the 1975 Constitution, which you want to review, is a liberal state. It's not a class state. In the first place, then, I think that instead of speaking of malignancies here, we should be exposed to the dialogue that everyone expects to start. So what state are you interested in? It's a basic question. I leave it at the moment, we will see it in the discussions that will follow at committee meetings. And now we're going a little bit further. Indeed, historically, the Left has met with democracy, but unfortunately these meetings did not come out happy or strengthened. And you know that much better than I do. And you know that, of course, because even if we refer to the texts I have just mentioned, you will see that the Left in this sense has a mistrust towards the representatives of the people. Because he is not interested in the people as a legal person, organised within the framework of this institutional entity that we call on a state and which has a lasting relationship with the service of a purpose. You do not clearly understand the state as a free people's state, even though Engels in a letter to Bebel had also referred to this aspect of the state. You obviously do not accept it today because I have heard a colleague from you interrupting Mr Tasoula to mention Article 1 of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. So this is where we need to make things clear, and we do not have to mock the people, bringing proclamations of greatness and grief to tell us that we do not agree with things and with regulations or reforms, which do not need to be reformed. So, from now on, ladies and gentlemen, you must be self-cleared by ideologies, fantasies and confine yourself to the fact that under the 1975 Constitution we are all serving it - and indeed, according to this monumental expression of Prime Minister, all of you are every word from the Constitution - with respect to this Constitution, we must not say things that are unrealistic, which are about ideological fantasies, which we have never seen in this world before. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] And your laughter matters. But my word is worth it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not want to say anything else about 'baby' and so on. You don't have to. I respect all colleagues, even when laughing at what I say, because laughing at me is the moment when the seed enters the field. Having to laugh means being embarrassed about what one believes and not what he hears. So I would like to refer to these very important things that the Prime Minister said in July 2016 and compare them to the current proposal you are bringing to a debate. Indeed, there is a poverty. There is a poverty in the declarations, because, as I have said, the Prime Minister has prepared us that through this process we will end up starting a new era for the country, a new Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask you to have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u82	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u83	Through this difference, the deficit that I see is on two points which will allow me to comment on. The first is this: in fact, it acknowledges in that speech the need - the 'budgets' we have said - for the Parliament to stop producing anti-constitutional laws, for it to cease creating a material of rules which, after two, four years, goes to the highest courts in the country, is declared unconstitutional, causes great arrhythmia, but mainly leads to the collapse of expectations and certainties that have been built, in view of the need for budgetary adjustment. Now a void is being created, a chaos. It is therefore necessary, before a law is put into effect, to have an institution dealing with the preventive control of the constitutionality of the laws. In his speech, the President of the Government had proposed the establishment of an advisory body, consisting of judges and, when the law goes to the President of the Republic, he in exceptional cases and on a specific basis will refer him to this advisory body. Now, however, no one is talking about this particular proposal you are bringing, on this important subject. I believe that either the draftsman of the proposal has forgotten or he can only start a dialogue that will lead us, although you want, to the fact that this unacceptable phenomenon does not continue, unless you do not believe, based on the thoughts I have previously made, that this Parliament here is serving and satisfying popular sovereignty as a whole. In other words, there are no references to popular sovereignty in the country and in the territory, apart from the work done here by the representatives of the people. A second point I would like to make. You consume many reasons, in many of your party texts there are also this specific proposal on what quality people are the politicians who exist in the public space in Greece during the Migration. That is where you say - and you say many of you - that they have formed a system that serves strife and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, this has a total dimension when it comes to institutions and, above all, when it indiscriminately affects people whose unique status is that they have succeeded, in their struggle in society, in honor of the post of MP. Mostly he ignores the fact that corruption or complexity, if you like, is an intolerable example of a person's moral decline, not in the context of serving democracy as a representative of the people, but made it a moral choice in his life. That is why neither corruption nor complexity must be politicised. Those who are corrupt and intertwined have a name. In this sense, and I am with you to be able to exile them, to destroy them from public space because they do a great deal of damage to democracy. That is why, in conclusion, I would also like to say a positive view on this issue, which I will borrow from the periodic speech he made in 2018 in Munich, a very great intellectual of modernism, modernity, Max Weber. This is known as 'policy as a profession'. He wonders when Max Webber concludes: “What kind of man should he be the one for whom he is allowed to put his hand in the rays of the story wheel? What qualities must the politician show against the people?" That's three. Having passion, devoting to service to the common hypothesis of serving, having a sense of responsibility, that is to say being able to keep the distance he needs from himself by serving the laws of the state and, thirdly, taking measures. So I say to you that without these three qualities and, above all, without a sense of measure and logic, this top parliamentary procedure, which we all want to serve in the context of a creative dialogue, will not end. Only then will we be useful and only then will we demonstrate that we are aware that, in this Constitutional Review, the Greek people expect us to incorporate, within the corpus of the Constitution's rules, institutions and procedures such as that which will shield democracy and civilisation against phenomena similar to those we have experienced, if anything happens to live again in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u84	The former Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Papapeigas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u85	I'm a congressman, Mr. Kaklamani. What ex, now and ever and ever?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u86	You're ex-wife, aren't you? Did I say the title?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u87	Poor thing. I'm a congressman and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u88	The Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Aleka Papapeiga, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u89	My party property doesn't even get confused with the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u90	Yes, but as a parliamentarian, you couldn't speak, Mrs. Papéga.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u91	Okay, if someone was asking, you could tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u92	As the former Secretary-General, it is legitimate for the Bureau to intrude you. But that's not a matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u93	One is three months Member or Minister and his name is Minister until he dies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u94	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u95	In this Parliament, I have been middle-aged and I am, in fact, old for many years. I was sworn to protect myself from going out to the Parliament's lamb and appearing as the knowledgeer and performer of Marx, Engels, Lenin. Unfortunately, several times we've been provoked. I don't want to talk about it. To talk about this particular subject we are negotiating. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, since Marx, Engels, Marxism, and his war enemies have appeared, his enemies, even with blood, to this day and remain, so many years, despite the fact that the theory is thought to be outdated. When Marxism was born, there was also the review, which of course in time, of God's mercy and social democracy after World War I, and he became a warrior of Marxism, except that he is hidden, is in the name of Marxism. Finish with that story! So, what do you mean? That today SYRIZA brings the Revision of the Constitution, why is it referred to by the class struggles of France, by capital? Mercy! Can I tell you something? Did you forget in 1991, but also in 1975, and then how many messes did you make with those who then appear as reviewers? You had them gods and fought us and said: “Why do you remain in your positions? Here, this is the modern left." When this modern Left, with or without introductorys - let everyone do what they want, we have an opinion - became government, you fight it and you always fight it, bearing in mind the JRC and Marx and Engels and Lenin. You're fighting him, and you know that he has nothing to do with communist ideology and communist theory. You're doing anti-communism. To those who were mocking and having them on the front line now you are making anti-communism to succeed and in the prospect of fighting the movement. One of us is kicking it through review, and the other one is kicking it with other means. Mr. Paradoxopoulos reminded us of a number of things that are true, that this Constitution, the Civil Constitution, the Constitution of the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, the Constitution of urban democracy, was established and evolved into conditions and popular uprisings, revolutions that took place and the people, without of course being the leader of these revolutions, but also popular uprisings, without the lowest parts of the people being in the front line again. That's the way it happened. He told us about 1843, about 1864, where the uprisings of this type imposed changes against the throne, without abolishing the throne. This proves what profound changes need to be made, if you want to make a truly popular constitution. So I shall begin with an article that is not proposed for revision, 120. What does Article 120 say? The fact that compliance with the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks, who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force. Mr. Paradiseopoulos is in favour of the revolutions - uprisings of the 18th and 19th century. From there on, the people have a mission to resist, with all means against anyone who tries to destroy the Constitution by force, namely the temporary abolition of the functioning of the bourgeois parliament, a dictatorship, etc. I must point out - Mr Paragulle, you are less than me, but you have lived with the dictatorship - that with the exception of the JRC, all other parties were looking for the fall of the dictatorship with the help of the European Union, the United States above. They didn't want a people's uprising, because they tell you the popular uprising will take us ahead of what we want. But I'm leaving that. I'm asking the following question, too. Does the people have the right - we are talking about a popular majority movement, which cannot be created either by guidance or by command - to allow the conditions and the popular consciousness has reached a high level - can such a massive movement overthrow the Constitution by force or I do not know by what other means and impose another people's constitution, which instead of saying 'institutional property', say 'institutional democracy', instead of saying 'participating democracy', which you want, say 'working control', which starts at the workplace? I say, could I? Oh, no. Because in this Constitution - which you are doing more conservatively, and the New Democracy - beside the fraudulent principle of equality of citizens - there cannot be equality of citizens in a class society, when the property of wealth belongs to the few - so the Constitution that has popular sovereignty and equality of citizens, there are a number of articles that go under the title: 'National security', 'Public security', 'National sovereignty', and even articles which I do not even expect you to hurt, articles that are about to be given national sovereignty, which have the right to do, does not matter if the 4/5 Parliament, the umbilical cord that gives you all 4/5 and 4.5/5. Therefore, a constitution which says that articles of international conventions can be adopted that conflict with articles of the Constitution, there is a siege of siege, Law 48, which means that the people, therefore, have the right to intervene only when the interests of the bourgeoisie are threatened. The Revision of the Constitution - Giannis Giokas said so - I do not want to repeat it - which comes here - and the New Democracy and all parties are in agreement regardless of individual differences or of the'strength' on the proposal, because there is the ornament - and it says: 'We want political stability', so stable governments, parliamentary majorities - individual differences exist, whether one has self-reliance and will cooperate in terms of self-reliance or whether it is a government of cooperation - so that pro-monopolymopolitan policy, capitalist policy or the competitive ambitions, which are the body, or much more than the popular factor. That's what you're doing. And we tell the people political stability to be afraid, because this political stability is such ironic and it is not only the stability of the government, it is also the mechanisms of the state: the repressive, ideological and the takeovers, which make it difficult to develop the people's movement. We're barely changing his wrestling. It must impose cracks and have a weak political system, if it wants to divert some concessions, prevent the worst if it wants to move forward, if it decides and if conditions are created in a substantial, radical overthrow. That's what you're doing. If you were a left-wing government, as you say - and you know now, everyone can say - there is Article 11 prohibiting outdoor concentrations when socio-economic life is disturbed. There is Article 18 which states that special laws regulate - notice - the property and disposal of metals, mines, caves, archaeological sites and treasures - no, because you said that we exempt from the archaeological treasures - thermal retons and groundwater and in general underground wealth. The only agricultural property that the Constitution prohibits its expropriation - I shall not say it in detail - is the property of certain monasteries and patriarchies. Article 23. Restrictions on the right of strike for judges, security bodies and certain restrictions on civil servants. Article 28 is what I said that articles of the Constitution can be replaced by institutions of international organisations, with the argument of national interest, namely the interest in capital. Article 48 on a siege state exists, of course, in the Greek Constitution with various wordings since 1833. To see, then, that the Urban Constitution also offers changes under the intervention of the People's Movement, a few articles can be rounded. But one thing is not chosen: the sacred and loyal property of capitalist property. By the way, Article 27 of the Constitution was flagrantly violated in the House. It is the article that says that it cannot in Greece camp or cross foreign troops. This article was violated when the naval troops crossed the war against Yugoslavia. We were calling for a debate to be held in the House at the time. We didn't have any delusions. The parties in this House would vote for it. SYRIZA then said "no" to Milosevic, "no" and to surgery. It is what we say 'the rounding', which you know is 'the rounding'. 'No' to ethnic cleansing, 'no' and to war. "Lukumi" was his position for the campaign. The others were in favor. Cleaner, more dull. We were shouting, but there was no debate in the House. To conclude, I would like to say that we are of course struggling with articles of the Constitution to be amended, even though we do not have the 50 Members to bring them, who are strong, who are making them stronger, who are blocking trade union and democratic action, which helps to have some freedoms even in the letter of the law to be used by the people and we will do so in committee and where we can. We do not have 50 Members to introduce some positive amendments, and let the people think about that too. We have no illusion, however, that this Constitution is too spacious to fit from greater authoritarianism to the greatest foolishness of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u97	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? What do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u98	The current procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u99	Wait a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u100	One minute is too much. There was a debate this morning on this very close process today. The majority insisted and we started. We are now learning that, in a way which is reluctant for the two largest parties, secondary education will be allowed. That is unacceptable, Mr President. Everything that was voted in the morning was to apply and, if it is to change, to change for all parties. Not just for the first two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u101	This morning you all know what was voted on. I've asked for the Minutes. However, as you have asked for the floor on a point of order, there can be either majority or major opposition during the sitting and make a proposal on a procedure. If Parliament approves, even by a majority, any proposal, it will be accepted because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. If not, then what was decided this morning is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u102	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u103	I don't forgive you. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u104	It's been too many hours. The debate has begun and the debate is evolving.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u105	I would like to reply to you that it is not forbidden to raise a point of order again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u106	Listen to me, please! I have a reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Loverdo, I'm clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u108	I'll finish in 15 seconds. There's no reason to oppose it. It's been 11:00 in the morning a few hours and the process is like this. It cannot, while this process is moving like this, in a contemptuous way - I repeat - for the two largest political formations here that we can allow second-guesting leaders and I do not know what else. If there is to be a change, it will be made in terms of equality. Finally, we're talking about the Constitution!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u109	The equality conditions will not be determined by you alone. The House will determine them with the majority of them at that time. Let's move on. Mr George Katrugalos has the floor, not in the Minister's capacity, but in the capacity of the nominated MEP from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is at the same time a top political act and a central moment for democracy, because the Constitution is not out of history. Both when it comes to establishing and revising it and when it comes to interpreting and implementing it, it is a battlefield. Listen to what the father of Greek Constitutional Law Nikolaos Saripolos said from the nineteenth century: “How does the Constitution come about? Of the continuing struggle by society of interest to maintain freedom on the one hand and the interests of the rulers to increase and strengthen their authority." The rulers and the leaders, the powerful and the weak, the many and the few, with the topical terminology 99% and 1%. I have a question specifically from your space: 'If it is so, if it is a battlefield, how do you come and talk to us about consents?' Consents, ladies and gentlemen, especially on these major issues, are not based on the strength of arguments, but on the balance of interests, as has been the case in the social struggles. The patriarchs have not been persuaded by new arguments from those in favour of equality between men and women. They have not become wiser than dialogue. Féminism, as well as the labour and socialist movement, are the ones who have brought to society the notion that we can no longer tolerate these inequalities. However, there are other areas of conflict that have not yet been crystallized. Above all, this area is the attempt of neoliberalism to impose a single economic orthodoxy and to completely remove it from the field of political ideas, to remove the economy from democracy. That is why we must bear in mind that the Constitution can also be used as a weapon in the field of these conflicts and combats, so that every one of the conflicting parties, many and few, those who have the power and those who question it, can promote their positions. That is why no review procedure is commendable or politically neutral. What is the mark of this review, as we see it? Democratisation and the recovery of neoliberalism. It's not two different things. I said before that that the main attempt of neoliberalism is to keep the central problems of the economy out of the democratic political process. There is the attempt to 'constitutionalize' the golden rule. That is where the European Union is trying to have a single economic policy, beyond democracy, beyond political accountability, beyond the will of the citizens. At the same level, the effort is being made to conserve all policy areas, with central bankers having policy decisions far beyond these exclusive technical and financial issues. But for another reason, democracy and freedoms are linked to the attack of neoliberalism. Neoliberalism means undermining the historical compromise of the welfare state, an attack on social rights and universal social services. What is going on, ladies and gentlemen? When the left hand of the state, what gives benefits and rights, strengthens the right hand, the hand of authoritarianism, the hand which, by invoking law and order, attacks rights and freedoms. There are no democracies. Rights, freedoms, individual, political, social are interconnected. And precisely in Greece we had a bitter experience of this, because the memorials were nothing more than concentrated neoliberalism in a democracy eclipse. At the moment, what we are coming to conclude with the review is precisely this: Reforms that in very difficult times and without our hands being free have been attempting for all this four years in the direction of precisely the retreat and the retreat of this neoliberal raid on rights and democracy. As we have banned political contingencies from being dealt with by the strike, we are now bringing it into constitutional form. As we have tried to strengthen the weak to guarantee rights to equality and dignity, the same institutional effort is now being completed with the revision. How is that possible? At the level of democracy, we are strengthening popular sovereignty in both its dimensions, the representativeness, which is dominant in a representative parliamentary system, particularly by guaranteeing mere analogy, but also other interventions of constitutional engineering, such as the creative vote of distrust. However, we are also promoting forms of direct democracy as a complement, not as an undermining of representative democracy and as a decisive counterweight to the power of elites. And it is not only the concept of retreat that requires us to open up popular sovereignty and, through the forms of direct democracy, it is also the concept of a citizen, vita activa, its active involvement in characterising his political behaviour and not just a voter once every four years. We are responding to neoliberalism and social rights and to the strengthening of social services, by banning the privatisation of water and energy, which are human rights, as has been said by the case law of the Council of State. I did not understand the argument on this Mr Venizelos. He spoke of constitutional folkism and promises, and at the same time he wondered: 'But is there no decent standard of living in the Council of State'? If there is already and it is unnecessary to revise, it is obviously not a promise. After all, and the 2001 revision in many respects was confirmatory. I also assure you, however, that there is no consequence of the regulatory changes we are proposing for social rights. They will strengthen the ability of citizens to counter attacks on their personal sphere of sovereignty and autonomy, as well as the attacks on the markets in what determines the area of democracy in the modern welfare state. Of course, several of these interventions are not only part of the need to tackle neoliberalism and the crisis of democracy, but also of the very specific form that the client state took in our country, because of this long domination of bipartism with family rule - Greece and Pakistan have political dynasties - and the domination, as they say, of the unmediated MEP as a professional in politics with citizens - see rosfetti - and above all, the perception that it can be technocratic and not democratic. After all, all these weaknesses were done precisely because the political system was helping to perpetuate these pathologies. I want to finish as I started with the consents. Consensus presupposes dialogue where the will of the opposing parties can be realised. This cannot be done on all matters. Obviously, it is chaotic that we are separated from New Democracy on the issues of neoliberalism and on aspects of the exercise of democracy. There are overtime issues, however, such as Article 86, on the responsibility of the Ministers. I have heard Mr Venizelos say again that no provision should go with 180 votes in the next House. Not even her? Is this single for the political world not to go with the consensus of the political world that it has to be addressed? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I do not understand at all how the opening of accounts of political persons has been associated, a short-term political event, with this major demand for democratic institutional change and the restoration of the sins of the old political world. Are there any other issues of consensus? We have tried to open the dialogue for two years. I will present to the minutes of the House the Report on the Constitutional Review organized by participation in the committee of many personalities and outside our area, under the coordination and guidance of my colleague Michael Spourdalakis. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, George Katrugalos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is that only that level, however, over the last two years? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, let us say on the subject of relations between the Church and the state, has the space for the consents that we have prepared to discuss with the Church not here? I would like to read to you what he said during the debate on the establishment of the Constitution in 1975, and with this end, the then Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Professor Zepos. He said: "It is theoretically more correct to separate Church and state, but under the present conditions and because of the tradition there is it is difficult to evade the system at the moment". This moment for you lasts forty years, you cannot appear to be following liberal political perceptions that you combine with your neoliberalism. You have to choose. And we are just at a time when the whole of Europe is in front of a dilemma of what path it will take. This peculiar marriage that creates chimes and monsters of neoliberalism with the extreme right or logic of open societies, democracy and freedoms? The next European elections are such a historic moment, but this is precisely a central moment for our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the High School of Rio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are moving on with my colleague, Mrs Kerameau, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is at the highest time of parliamentism and the fact is that the new Greece that we envision needs a new constitution is needed. However, the conditions under which the Government chooses to bring the question of Revision of the Constitution to the surface show also the true intentions, its real dual targeting: Targeting the government's first. The government wants to disorientate public opinion from the grim reality it has created on its own responsibility. The government wants to disorientate from the grim situation in the country's economy, a country excluded from the markets rather than a EUR 86 billion loan and EUR 14.5 billion of measures voted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a country that still overtaxes citizens, burdens workers and employers with excessive insurance contributions, not attracts investment. The government wants to disorientate from the grim reality of our national affairs, the Embassy Agreement, which is constantly aggregating negatively, as is apparent from the review process in the neighbouring country. The government wants to disorientate from the dramatic deterioration of public security and order: Affliction of university spaces by collectives, robberies, drug dealers, armed robberies on busy streets in Athens, And the government wants to disorientate from government scandals that succeed each other. From the revelations of the European-level survey to disperse 1.6 billion euros of EU funds for refugee, the revelations about the almost direct assignment of the Airport of Eleftherios Venizelos in relation to an incomplete price, the revelations for the acquisition by PPC of a company belonging to the vice president of Skopje. Aiming, therefore, first of all, is to work on the constitutional review of a diversion weapon, a review announced by the Prime Minister two and a half years ago and, at the same time, by chance, ladies and gentlemen, it is finally starting a few months before the elections and is due to last for just two and a half months. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only this fast track procedure that has been chosen that is an effective proof of SYRIZA's contempt for institutions and parliamentary procedures. In our post-government history, the work of the committees concerned has always lasted for several months, as in such a top institutional process, substantial parliamentary fermentation is required and the margins of consensus are exhausted. The aim of the government's second task is to block a real effort to modernise the state of the Constitution from the New Democracy for the next ten years. And that, ladies and gentlemen, has now cynically confessed to the Minister of Government, by accident the previous one, in a radio interview just two weeks ago. And I read Mr Katrugalos's words, who said: 'Only by not agreeing to what is believed to be the focal parts of neoliberalism to enter the Review, as is the issue of private universities, are essentially blocking their revision for ten years when our Constitution provides that the same revision cannot be initiated before another five years'. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is essentially attempting to cancel for a decade any brave change in the constitution. It is trying to work even this supreme parliamentary procedure only to prevent a genuine and necessary modernisation of the Constitution. But let us also come to the essence of these SYRIZA draft proposals on the Constitution. It is an anachronistic text with proposals that are dangerous, such as referendums on the people's initiative, proposals that are incomplete, such as repeated votes for a six-month term for the election of the President of the Republic, proposals for institutional solutions, such as the constitutional safeguarding of the simple as permanent electoral system that will lead the country into permanent government. It is a proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, without even mentioning the big institutional areas that the country needs, in the public administration, in education, in development, in justice, in good legislation, in budgetary stability. Ladies and gentlemen, do we stand as a country to lose another decade to have the opportunity to have a new modern constitution? No, we cannot withstand as we cannot and will not allow the ruling majority to downgrade our Constitution. The New Democracy will not allow any reformist populism that will ultimately undermine our own culture. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will normally be participating in the Review Committee set up in a body tomorrow. As far as the procedure is concerned, our rapporteur spoke in detail. Our proposal in substance is based on three central principles, serves three key political priorities. Priority one: The new Constitution must be simple, without unnecessary and anachronistic provisions, to ensure continuity and, above all, the effectiveness of the state, to separate powers, to shield justice, to establish accountability, transparency and evaluation. The second priority: The new Constitution must ensure social solidarity and equal opportunities for all as a prerequisite for social mobility and prosperity, address the clientele structures of the state and strengthen civil society. Priority third: The new Constitution must guarantee the stable economic environment, the fiscal stability and the development of the country. In this context, let me refer to our proposal for the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution, a proposal which seems to be agreed by your government partner, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the ANELs, too. The aim is, at last, to enable our country to operate both non-public and private universities on strict terms and conditions, under the supervision of an independent high prestige authority. Ladies and gentlemen - and I would ask you to listen - we are the only country in Europe that has a constitutional ban on the establishment of non-state universities. And this, while the benefits of establishing non-state universities will be unprecedented. And I will list six indicative benefits. Benefits first: It will drastically limit the Brain Drain of teachers and students. A recent survey by the National Bank showed - look, ladies and gentlemen - that 60% of Greek universities are working abroad, when the average European is only 11%. In addition, our country has one of the highest percentages of students studying abroad. In 2017 we sent more than thirty thousand of our students abroad. Do you know how many Spain sent? Spain has sent thirty-five thousand, with more than four times the population. Why should we not be able to keep this valuable human potential of teachers and students in our country? Second benefit: it will also restrict the free movement of resources abroad. At least, with the most conservative estimates, half a billion euros is lost every year for the costs of our students abroad, causing real economic bleeding in the Greek family and, of course, influencing other countries' GDP, when this money could stay and invest in our country. Third benefit: Our country will attract a significant number of students from around the world. And this will make a significant contribution to improving the educational process and will provide immediate economic benefits for the country. Our country will be able to become a regional training centre, especially when the international situation is very favourable to this project. Why is the juncture very favourable? Because ladies and gentlemen, while in 1975 only eight hundred thousand students were studying in a country other than that in which they lived, this figure is now four and a half million. There are four and a half million students studying in a country different from the one they live in! And Greece, according to a report from the Bank of Greece, has the possibility of directly attracting hundreds of thousands of foreign students and, at the same time, limiting the outflows of Greek students abroad, with a direct benefit for the country of EUR 1.8 billion. And I am sure such a reform could significantly increase the country's potential growth by one or two percentage points directly. Ladies and gentlemen, education contributes to 2.5% of the country's GDP. Fourth benefit: To contribute to a healthy competition with public universities in order to improve the level of education provided for all, but also to strengthen scientific research. Fifth benefit: To give students the choice of an institution as it is internationally valid. How is it possible to have private education in schools and not private education in universities. Sixth benefit: It will end the paradox that applies to our country. What is happening, ladies and gentlemen, is this. Recognition of non-state universities abroad is allowed, but it is not permitted to establish such universities in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close - let us finally end the regression and counter-reformation. That's enough left behind because of the ideoleptic twitching. Let's not miss another chance. History will judge us all very strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u113	Three colleagues have left, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, Mrs Papakostas and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, and the list of colleagues proposed by their parties is supplemented. Mrs Anagnostopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, while everyone in this Chamber has acknowledged that the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is a leading moment in parliamentary and political life, I have immediately heard from the previous speaker and from others a sterile opposition, catastrophe, etc. Half the time was consumed there. It is not with the best omens that this supreme moment of democracy begins. I also heard that the Constitution, both its adoption and its revision, responds to the challenges of history. This is where the big question arises how and what each one of us reads from history. And there are ideological lines, there are consensus, but there are conflicts. And a Constitution, because it contains contradictions, also involves conflicts. So what do we read from history? We had a big crisis, a traumatic crisis. We have had throughout Europe and we still have a neo-liberalism which, not only does disguise societies because of extreme austerity, but, above all, transforms the democratic institutions themselves, the very functioning of democratic institutions. These are great challenges of our time. The even bigger challenge? It's the extreme rise of the far right. Revision of a constitution, what's it meant? First of all, to answer the urgent matter of the times, the urgent question raised by a people. Secondly, to direct the Constitution, and therefore the people themselves, the political system itself, in a direction that shows what vision it has for the future and what positions a people want to have in order to be able to fight. They've been suppressing the times. Because I have heard Mr Venizelo say: 'We will discuss it all. There will be no majority, however. A majority vote of eighty-eight votes and we will go to the next Review House, to judge the people," this House, at the moment, in place, and I have time to assume the responsibility that this people have repudiated the political system, and because of Article 86, therefore, it needs immediate revision. Do we now agree that the next Review House in this direction will review it? If we don't talk about it, I'm afraid we want to make a shell. Thirdly, do we all agree that this society, right now and after the experience of the crisis, is saying that the political system has been formed into an elite in connection with financial interests, with a client system, so somewhere should this be broken? So parliamentary immunity must be differentiated and revised? Should parliamentary mandates be reduced, should we not have this professionalisation of parliamentary life, of political life, which creates clientele relations on the other hand? We must now respond to these, not tomorrow, not as an alibi to say that we are reviewing them for this reason and that is why they must be reviewed. So synapses in such major articles must be found. Another article in which there can be consent and in which we threw water into our wine is Article 3. The parties of both the New Democracy and the KINAL are being removed that they are liberal urban parties, they are directly from the Enlightenment. Is Article 3, and should we agree on that, stress that the state is neutralist? Should we, in conjunction with Article 13, all agree that the state is not religious? Society is religion or not religion. The state, however, is not religious, so its officials and officials are self-determination through democratic institutions. Do we have to agree? I didn't hear any answers here. No one spoke, because some ran, rushed to take advantage of this review, the direction of revision, saying that the churches, baptisms - I don't know what - and others rushed to make other shows with this article. For me personally, the expression "predominant" religion had to be abolished. Already from the Korais there is this request. If we do not bring it now, it is because we do need consent to a crucial issue that touches the tradition of the Greek people and all that, but at least let us agree on the minima. Let's take a bigger step. What are the urgentities of the times in Greece, but above all in Europe? Should the Constitution create battle positions for a society, for a political body, for the people as a political entity? What have we seen in the crisis? What do we see with the stunning of neoliberalism? The undermining of democratic institutions, the undermining of popular sovereignty, and thus the undermining of democracy itself. He has to find ways again. Is it or is it not urgent for the parliamentary system to rediscover ways, so as not to be sterile, so that it does not lose its political potential to talk to the road again? Should he discuss and encourage the people in political action? Is it not urgent when we see that it is so large a body, so large a percentage of the electorate from the elections? Isn't the bell of Agia Sophia ringing when we see this and at the same time see the rise of the far right? So we don't have to find any roads? The people's legislative initiative, the direct democracy, in conjunction with the parliamentary institutions, that is to say referendums. I would have to say for the 2015 referendum that I too am proud and not get it back for a reason, and I have to say it in this House. At those critical times, if 62% of the Greek people were not standing next to their government, the country would have left the Eurozone, as Symble arranged. It's been a grand moment and disapprove it as much as you want. We and they know. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I was lucky and honoured to be appointed immediately after Prime Minister Deputy Foreign Minister. All the ambassadors from European countries who came and visited me said one thing: it upset Europe. And where you need to see what is really going on and see the urgency is how a Europe with its institutions that are not accountable does not pay attention to popular sovereignty. So the Constitution is a battleplace for it, too. One final point - I would say too much - is the famous article 16. The committee will have time to discuss this issue. Our position is known and is not known for either idealism or anything, for nothing as you think. This is where the conflict between the left and the progressive forces is condensed - and we will prove what progressive forces are - with neoliberalism and neoconservative forces. So what is Article 16? The guarding through the highest good, which is the knowledge and research of the public space. It is the guarding of the inseparable bond of equality and freedom. If freedom for neoliberal powers is one thing and is related to the private sector, for the progressive world of freedom and equality is one thing. You're accusing us of balancing. Yes, because for us excellence is the result of equality and freedom. It is a prerequisite for equality and freedom, and that is what we want to guarantee. We saw what happened with the media and the privatisation of the public space. For Article 16, then, we shall come back. Here too, you will allow me to close with a personal experience. You are now cutting off that our children are leaving abroad. They've always gone. I would also like to say that at national and European level, not private universities should be made. And I'm going to tell Mrs. Keramea where they were created, how much do they all close? I got the evidence. Don't read as we want reality. But I will say one thing: to claim at European level. I will not mention your ministers in the previous government who wanted to close sections, because there are many our highest institutions. It's either a lot or it's a little. One of the two applies. I will say, however, that we have succeeded and taken PLN members' seats, because some of the most important universities in the public universities in Europe have been on our side in Brussels to claim jobs. If that was not the case, if public education did not exist as a good and national and European, I would tell you what would happen. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] We have a responsibility, this Parliament, today, to history. We cannot come here and say that rationalising or constitutionalising neoliberalism is the answer to the challenges of our time. Tomorrow the next societies, the next generations to read the Minutes of Parliament, will come to judge us. Another is rising, another is increasing, which devaluates a large proportion of the population. That's what we have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Catherine Papacosta - Ironopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, seriously and fundamentally, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, and I begin by saying that institutional modernity has guaranteed post-collection with the 1975 Constitution and this institutional modernity is due to the strong personality of Constantine Karamanlis. Today, therefore, because seasons have changed and come to us with care, we are all obliged to meet the needs of the times, the challenges of the present and the future. The new Greek Ormes, whose party at the moment I have the honour of presenting to the public, and indeed Parliament's basic proposals for the revision of the Constitution, touches and essentially represents politically the area of social liberalism and promotes a brave, consultative, modern, rational, such as the country and the times that have changed need. In particular, in the context of the need to reach a consensus and the need to take responsibility, because, as Kazantzakis says, what never happened is what we did not wish enough, we, as a new Greek Orthodox, propose, first of all, the release of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. Election by the people after the third vote of 3/5 and after the expiry of a quarter, resumption of votes, i.e. per month. There is a reasoned strengthening of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. In particular: the appointment of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, the Presidents of the Independent Authorities, the Chief of HNDGS. Discretion of State - Church. We wish, of course, that the preamble to the Constitution be maintained, because the Christian Orthodox doctrine, ladies and gentlemen, and the Orthodox Church are fermented with the heart of the nation, are tied to the inseparable ties, the history of the struggles of the nation. On the other hand, however, I have to tell you that, on this issue, it is very good that, after a century of loose end, the revision is now coming before us to give a solution to problems which have really been troubled and troubled for a century, as I said before. On the other hand, in this matter, the revision of the relevant constitutional provisions must be guided, as a pillar, by defending individual freedoms and, above all, by the right of the free formation of religious conscience. So we agree with the change in Article 3, on the basis of the principle that society and its members can religion, but the state can't. As far as the oath is concerned, we insist that it is a personal matter and a right. The choice of the religious oath for government officials and civil servants must remain, as the pseudo-crime is either political or religious. Constitutionalisation of the proportional electoral system in the parliamentary and self-government elections. Required presence of one/3 of Members for the opening of the sitting of the House, so that we strengthen and strengthen the parliamentary institution and the role and essential presence of the Member in Parliament. Priority in the social rule of law and in strengthening citizens' rights. We believe and recommend non-State HEIs to be a very simple reason. The State cannot maintain a state monopoly, particularly in higher education. In this sense, the state monopoly must be broken, while strengthening public higher education institutions and research and innovation, with resources that are necessary, so that our universities can still be placed in higher positions and do their work on the best possible terms. Vote and election of MPs from the family. Another proposal of the NEO is for spiritual creation. There is a huge deficit here. We therefore propose that intellectual creation and therefore intellectual property be safeguarded constitutionally, because, in our time, the products of intellectual property must be guaranteed and given special protection. Reorganise public administration and maintain continuity, i.e. institutional memory. Here we propose the abolition of the institution of general and special secretaries to all public administration and the appointment of permanent Ministers of State, as provided for in the Constitution in Article 81(1). We also propose that there should be an explicit provision of two positions, five plus five years, of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and Defence. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal of the NEO is crystallised. We do not share the rethinking pessimism, which some political actors are invoking and are hesitant about the review project, in particular - we say - for reasons of regularity or feasibility. At the same time, it is also crystal clear that we consider the negative attitude towards the announced review and its minimalist version to be unjustified in terms of a simple proposal of minimal change. With our proposals, which incorporate what I said earlier, the need for consensus and responsibility, we cancel or try to cancel in the House of Greek purposes and self-interests, concepts and practices incompatible with the public interest, and we deserve the faith of the Greek people, that the country's fundamental charter, namely the Constitution, is the last obstacle to its policy of autonomy. Closure - and I will close with it - our check and our political and patriotic obligation through this review is to ensure that democracy can keep its five important promises. The first promise is the sovereignty of citizens and ensuring equality. The second promise is that representatives who will serve the interests of society as a whole and not the interests of particular groups. Third promise is the control of all the fields in which a power is exercised that makes binding decisions for an entire social group. Fourth promise is the elimination of invisible powers. And the fifth promise is to form active, conscious and virtuous citizens. In the context of this top debate on the need to revise the Constitution in order to meet the needs of the times, the NEW and I will personally bring our proposal to all the articles that are being revised in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Anastasia Christodoulopoulos has the floor. She's the last colleague. Then follow the speeches of the political leaders. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as the last speaker from the Members' circle, will try to introduce a little of the arguments which have been heard, to highlight contradictions, to criticise the criticism of the SYRIZA proposal. So before I begin, I would like to say that in the positions of the various colleagues who have tried to deceive - anyway - our own initiative on constitutional review has become obvious: the memoranda of some people, like society, have been a profound trauma, while others have been an opportunity. Because if you haven't experienced all this painful trauma experience, you can't think of review proposals. And here's the problem. No one mentioned what happened at the time of the memoranda in society, but above all what happened in the institutions, as we speak of institutions and a constitution. I think this is a great omission in the debate. That's why I'm gonna try to put it down very soon. Finally, the Constitution, said Mr. Venizelos, proved to be resilient to the crisis. Indeed, the Constitution has proved to be resilient, but the cracks it has experienced since the ten years of the crisis are huge and we urgently need to find ways to create institutional counterweights so that we do not recur on such adventures as that of the economic crisis. Because what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Throughout the time of the memorials, state sovereignty or so-called 'national independence' has become bogged. Instead of being the Parliament and the government deciding on the economy of the country, for their policies, they were some technocratic circles of private interests and the "labelled" ideology of neoliberalism that decided on the fates of the Greek people: the Eurogroup, the Euro Working Group, things completely outside democratic legitimacy. The institutions, depending on whom we had called here to rule the Greek people, were, in fact, the ones who decided on our fates. Isn't that a trauma to the Constitution? Isn't this a huge crack? The emergency law, which actually defined all the laws that have been adopted over the years, is not a crack? So where is this notorious resilience of the Constitution, which we are talking about? Unless we consider that the resilience of the Constitution has been in relation to the non-resilience of the political system. Because yes, what the Constitution has achieved, because it has time-consuming values about freedom and rights, was that it should be constantly invoked by people who are struggling and by progressive people, while, on the contrary, the political system suffered Vatterlo. Bi-partyism collapsed and these parties are looking and still trying to reconcile themselves with the new reality. So these issues that have emerged in the time of the memorials need a new arrangement. And that is what the proposal we have tabled - and I too have signed - for the constitutional review. So we have to say here that the crisis of the legalisation of the political system, that is, its inability to reproduce - that means 'legalisation' - has not expired. There's still. Polarization and the absence of consensus have exactly something to do with it. This is about the fact that in the legalisation crisis SYRIZA emerged. You can't admit that. It's impossible! It's impossible to understand how society trusted SYRIZA, leaving political professionals out of power. [[Mr Alexis Tsipras, President-in-Office of the Council, entered the Chamber]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At first you found the 'left parenthesis'. You were as comforted as you could. They spend the years and the government shows an unprecedented stamina and it will probably be the only one that will run out for the four years. So what's going on? It was then invented - Mr Venizelos in fact - the theory of strategic defeat in the elections. You have been disproved in the parentheses, you will object to SYRIZA's so-called "strategic defeat" in the elections, because SYRIZA was not built by any central power and Tsipras was not built as leader by some. It was a mature result of a social process that developed in the time of the memoranda, when the political system proved unable not only to prevent the crisis, but also intensified the crisis within the memoranda with the policies that followed. So the question we need to discuss is - even if you think the memorials are not over, because there are some wings here that say that there is a fourth and fifth Memorandum, 100 years of hostage, etc. - the fact that since August this process has been closed do you think that it is not a sufficient treaty to deal with the issues that have arisen in the course of this unreasonable, barbaric political austerity? Shouldn't we intervene? Isn't that a reason? And just because you don't have an opinion, you have to say fireworks. "Constitutional populism" says Mr. Venizelos and others. Yes, sir. This is, indirectly, a praise for our proposal. In other words, our proposal is so folklore, you call us populists. I wish, therefore, that the Greek society has been handed over all these years, that it is right for the state to be religiously neutral, that it is right that there should be no Prime Minister of Technocrats - such as what you were trying to do to escape social anger during the memoranda - that it is very polite at last to leave professional politicians, not to be eternal, not to be families - dynasty within the House, but to be people who are coming, to leave their political print and leave. At the same time, while you do not agree with these proposals, you dare to show your opposition: Firstly, you say that you want a stable political cycle in the governance of the country. Mr. Mitsotakis has been calling for elections since he was elected. What stable political circle is he asking for? Of course, as a stable political cycle, he means the Government of New Democracy. All the other feathers and feathers. It's okay. At the same time, they consider it populist that we are discussing three terms for MPs, because we cannot be a colonel and engage in politics. At the same time, however, they criticise SYRIZA for being grabbed by chairs. So, let's see, you who haven't been grabbed by the chairs, will you vote for this provision so that we don't become carrots in here, not to be politically inherited right? So here we are on what issues the dialogue should be. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think that the constitutional review in this respect is important, because Parliament is finally being upgraded, because it is making political arguments, and society is listening, and at the same time this procedure also has to do with them. And in this 'in this way' we will raise our hands to say what we agree and what we disagree. Consequently, Mr Venizelos' proposal that no one should vote on an article - hence - so that in the next House there should be a hundred and eighty Members who will underline and complete the constitutional review, actually sabotage the whole process. He does not care about the dialogue that is taking place today with a 'those of them'. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In the meantime, we are at a time when the political system, having this legalisation crisis, but also the policy - and the politicians - are, with little joy, coming to see the phenomena of the extreme right rise across Europe and not realising what responsibilities we have. Article 86, which is in the Constitution and while you have made five revisions, did not even think about approaching it. And now you're already telling us: ‘Hey, and what are you doing?’ Slowly because you said it was religiously neutral? After you say that the prevailing religion is the Christian Orthodox, then in reality you do nothing." Let's see, are we doing anything or not? I think we're doing it. Even Article 16(2), which says that the purpose of education is to form a national and religious conscience, if necessary, will not be interpreted in the way it was recently interpreted by the Council of State, because the neutrality of the state will be declared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u119	You should also put Article 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u120	In any case, we don't understand. On the one hand, there is a pillistic demand "change everything and change the roots" and, on the other, there is an incredible ideological and political conservatism to stay the same. Finally, we must choose which camp we are and understand that the new needs that exist require some brave steps. We, as the Left, know we have a vision of social transformation. But that does not mean that in the proposals for the Revision of the Constitution we will not take into account movements, society, workers, youth and their claims. If those on the road to social emancipation want such and wides and many constitutional changes, they will be able to submit them. We do not substitute for movements or left-wings or for people who also have a vision for a different society. I therefore think that this is the great opportunity, through all this, to upgrade Parliament, to talk about the substance, so that society can finally understand that we are not the same. Because in the way policy is conducted, with disaster, with demonization, with incredible lies, society today cannot understand what is happening and we are causing them an absolute confusion. Here, then, is a glorious field to say all our proposals, to understand exactly what is going on. And I hope - and I believe that - that the proposals we have to be for the benefit of the people. It may take time to realize them. However, the discussions that are taking place here will facilitate the awareness of these proposals that we have made so that we can really move on to a constitutional review, which corresponds to the memorial era, at a time when hopes are beginning to come back alive that we can step on our own. They will not come again without a referendum and we will not constitutionalise neoliberalism by putting in balanced budgets and deficits. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. These are not constitutional contents. You should understand that it is not eternal neoliberalism, that it is not eternal market domination over societies, that it is not eternal the dominance of the economy on politics. We want to change everything so that we can once again trust the Greek society to claim what has been lost in the time of the crisis. That's what we're doing. And if you judge our folktic perception of wanting to restore injustices to the people who have been so severely affected by the crisis, you go out and say it, to understand exactly what you promise to do and what you do not want to do so that the limits of social and political competition currently taking place in our country can be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. The President and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on the initiative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the top parliamentary process of the Revision of the Constitution begins today. It is a process that is topical, regardless of the current circumstances, in which it takes place, as the Review of the Constitution is - I would say - the revision of the rules of political controversy, the very context within which the policy is moving. That is why the Constitution - and not unfairly - has also been termed the 'justice of politics'. Today, however, this process takes even wider content and becomes even more important because it comes at a time of transition for the country, for society and for the economy, at the moment, that is to say, when we take our first steps after the end of a multiannual period, for the Memorandum of Understanding, for a difficult and hard period for the country, a period which, however, ended with the clear exit from the last adjustment programme last August. And here we have nothing to do - I would say - just with a time coincidence of two independent situations. On the contrary. The completion of the Memorandum and the beginning of the Constitutional Review, shortly after, coincide with a selection. Because today, apart from the obligation, we also have the possibility - I would say - to reflect on the experience of these years, to reflect on the experience of bankruptcy, the experience of the crisis as a whole, but also on the experience we have gained from the management of this crisis, to reflect on their institutional causes - because, of course, there are other non-institutional ones - to learn from this experience and to learn necessary lessons. Because if the crisis was indeed a overwhelming experience for the great majority of the Greek people who lifted disproportionate burdens, it did - I would say - at the same time wiser for too many. It has led us to look at the democratic deficit of our political system, institutional and administrative shortcomings, but also to understand the ways in which economic and political elites are organised and self-protected, which are largely related to the Constitution. And precisely because the crisis has worked awakeningly, it has brought to the fore, with intensity, popular demands for more democracy, more equality, more social protection, and also the demand for the radical reform of the Greek state, a state whose organisational deformity was not the result of the supposedly inadequacy of post-population governments, because in others these governments were extremely sufficient. Nor, of course, is it about the supposed failure of post-population, as some representatives of the old political system have told us yet to talk about the country in the crisis, which, when they talk about the others, the corrupt, tax-gunkers, the client system in the country, actually speak of their own responsibilities, possibly about themselves. That was not the case, then. It was a political choice, as the organizational and administrative chaos were in itself, I would say, a technology of power. It was a precondition for the reproduction of civil reliance on the political system, for the creation, maintenance and cover of outbreaks of corruption from the base to the top of the administrative mechanism, but, I would say, and a prerequisite for the tolerance to generalised tax evasion, which served as a catalyst for the hegemony of neoliberalism, its acceptance, that is, of wider popular strata and, above all, of the middle layers. I am therefore convinced that one of the positive legacy of the crisis was to raise awareness among citizens not only against the policies of austerity, but also against a political system that restricts the participation of citizens in decision-making, which ultimately underestimates their role and intelligence and establishes a non-transparency regime in critical choices. This was also the demand for more and more essential democracy and for state reform, which emerged in the early years of the crisis by the so-called 'planning movement'. I would say in particular the lower square, the one with fewer slogans and more suggestions and more reflection. So, with our proposal to the Greek Parliament today for constitutional reform, we are trying to understand and listen to this popular demand and the popular expectation of state reform. At the same time, however, our proposal attempts to respond to the major challenges facing every organised society at the dawn of the 21st century. As I have said several times, our proposal for the Constitutional Review is not a proposal that looks inwards. At the same time, it takes into account the transformations of the state and the institutions and the emergence of multiple national, supranational, public and private power centres, which unfortunately are no longer controlled by these centres of power by the people, but impose political and economic choices, exercising their disciplinary function on the people and their elected representatives. They impose choices because they are supposed to possess knowledge, a knowledge neutral and objective, a knowledge that deprives it of the political system, representatives of the people or the people themselves, a knowledge that is, therefore, a power in itself, as Nikos Poultzas used to say, a power in which the people have to discipline. So within this global post-democratic treaty and taking into account the national peculiarities and the results of the crisis, we have to move forward. So we are tabling a proposal for a revision which is primarily aimed at strengthening parliamentaryism, deepening democracy and public participation, protecting social rights, abolishing the privileged institutions for the political elite, let me have the term. However, we are also putting forward a proposal that avoids constitutional pillaging and bruising, because we know - we have learned that now - that it does not all depend on the Constitution. What the Constitution can do is to set the terms and limits, define the forms of political conflict and not pre-paid or discount the result of political conflict. And just because we know that, we have no ambition of wanting to create the perfect constitution, simply because we cannot create the perfect constitution, because there is no perfect constitution. Because the question that will always be unrelenting is: perfect for whom? So what we are trying to do is not impose our own opinions and proposals. We are tabling them, with a view to seeking consensus, consensus on positions and proposals that we consider necessary for the purposes that we want to serve. I believe that these objectives are not just ours, that is, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group that puts forward this proposal. I think there are a lot of people in this Parliament who share these purposes, perhaps from another ideological or political starting point. I think there are a lot of those who agree on the need for a new architecture of the culture that we are proposing today, the need to strengthen, for example, political stability, the strengthening of Parliament and of governments, with the constructive vote of distrust, but also the simultaneous internal balance of the proportional electoral system, as well as the need to disconnect the process of electing the President of the Republic from the early break-up of the House. And of course they agree with trying to create institutional terms and conditions that will exhaust every time the scope of this consensus. And that is what I think is achieved by the proposal we are tabling, the proposal of successive votes, because here any other solution - after two or three failed attempts to elect the President of the Republic to go directly to the people, a proposal that we had initially tabled - entails the possibility of a risk. The risk is to have a dilemma at the top of the executive, because, when the constitutional legislature predicts that, after two - three fruitless successive votes, the people's crisis will ever come, the political system - regardless of the parliamentary balance - will not consent to the election of the President of the Republic from Parliament, but will give the prospect of a direct election by the people. The prospect of the immediate election of the President of the Republic by the people gives - obviously regardless of the powers of the President of the Republic - a particular power to the directly elected President of the Republic. Our question is this: Do we want this question? Our thinking and proposal are not that, it is not to create a bipolar system. The second risk is to adopt the view that we should not even have at the end of the process the most recent version of the refuge in the people's crisis and allow the President of the Republic, following three successive failures, to elect three successive votes which will not result in one hundred and fifty. Here we risk creating the disincentive of consensus, that is, the counterincentive to create consensus for the person who, by the constitution, must be the expression of unity of society and thus enable the simple majority of one hundred and fifty to elect a President of the Republic to be elected without the mediation of elections. So I think that the proposal that, after a lot of suffering, we are dealing with as much as possible with the two risks that I have mentioned. I also think we can achieve not only the disconnection of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House, but we can also achieve the need to strengthen the direct involvement of the people in decision-making, not because the people are always right, but because the people are the source of every power, unless it is just a demolished constitutional declaration for some people and not a vibrant and active principle. For us, it's a vibrant and active start. It should be for all of us. I know very well that there are plenty of people in this Chamber - to say a little stylish - who do not trust so much the people's crisis, who may sometimes think that the popular majority is ignorant or think, to be more polite, that the people are being lured easily, that they are making mistakes. One might say that these are the views of another system, not democracy, aristocracy. I will be content to paraphrase a well-known phrase of a great personality, a revolutionary in the beginning of the previous century, Rosa Luxemburg. But I will paraphrase it because it was said about the Central Committee and I will say: 'I prefer the mistakes of the people, despite the infallibility of their representatives'. Let us consider what logic we are driving if we consider that, precisely because the people make mistakes, we must limit the power to those who know not to make mistakes. We must therefore learn to trust the people, as we must learn to trust democracy, because it is the same. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support these proposals relating to referendums on the people's initiative, which deal with the mandatory referendum if we have an international agreement that confers sovereign powers on international organisations and also on the proposal for a popular legislative initiative. I would ask you to do the same with those proposals that try to put an end to today's constitutional logic, that our political staff are a case of special treatment and are entitled to special privileges. I call on you to do the same with those proposals that want to abolish the institutions that form the basis and organise the customer state, because in our democracy we cannot tolerate the existence of citizens of different speeds, the existence of first and second-class citizens. So I think that the time has come - and I would like to believe that this is a common place for the great majority of this House - to courageously amend the provisions relating to the responsibility of the Ministers, so as to abolish the short limitation on the offences committed in the course of their duties and in this way to equate criminal treatment to the extent that is necessary, with the criminal treatment of all other citizens. I also think it is time to amend the provisions relating to parliamentary immunity so that it can cover exclusively the offences committed in the performance of the duties of Members. One more step, I think it is mature - and the large social majority sees it absolutely positive - to introduce a deadline for the ongoing election for the MPs so that the majority of Greek society can stop thinking that the MP is a profession, because it must not be a profession, it must be a function, alongside the people, for the people, to represent the people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to an issue that does not relate to its civilization and architecture, it does not relate to the crisis and bankruptcy, but it concerns the origin and historical conditions of the Greek state and I am referring to relations between the State and the Church. I think that today the State, the Church, Parliament, the citizens and the believers, who are the overwhelming majority, have understood that steps need to be taken to rationalise these relations and that we must at the same time try to resolve historical outstandingities. We must shape with the necessary sensitivity and due respect for terms and conditions, in order to distinguish the roles from one side of the State and from the other of the Church, because that is the only way we can create the conditions for beneficial cooperation where it is appropriate, leave old conflicts and conflicts aside, leave unilateral actions in the past and move on with mutual understanding. I have the assessment that broad consensus can also be formed on this point within and outside Parliament, so that we can move on to a new era. Because neither the Church nor the State wants, they want to embrace them within an institutional framework that is confusing about the limits and their roles. So the time has come to expressly guarantee the religious neutrality of the Greek state in the Constitution, because the State does not religion, but is the guarantor of religious freedom for all its citizens, an inalienable and unrealistic freedom that our Constitution provides to every citizen. And this explicit assurance, I believe, will not be contrary to the Church, which, too, wants a clear outline of its relations with the State. And he only has benefits from it. And at the same time, I believe that it will be an important step towards modernising and liberalising our Constitution, an important step towards rationalising the relations between the Church and State, which, of course - I will agree with many of you who have said so publicly - is not an exclusive constitutional issue, but is an ideal legislative and regulatory grid, which certainly does not change from one day to the next. On the other hand, in order to modernise, to change, it requires dialogue with respect and honesty, it requires good will and long-term joint work. I think, with the recent publicity of the framework, the proposal for an agreement with Archbishop Jr., that when these conditions are met, solutions can be found to even the most difficult problems, both compromised and promotional. I would like to close, ladies and gentlemen, this intervention with the last major issue raised by our proposal for the Review of the Constitution, the issue of social protection, the strengthening of social rights, the necessary social intervention, which asks the foundations of neoliberalism, which calls into question the dominant position of the neoliberals - and there are, of course, several of them in this Chamber too - that the condition for development is the collapse of the work of the social state, because we believe the opposite is true. There is no development for the social majority without protection of labour, without the social state being shielded. It is precisely for this reason that, taking into account the tragic experience of the crisis and its management, we must move towards supporting, enlarging and deepening social rights. In this very context and in line with this logic, we are today tabling our proposals for the protection of water and electricity from the pretext of private initiative, in order to emphatically guarantee the protection of work and workers, in order to recognise the exclusive competence of the social partners to set the minimum wage, to strengthen public guarantees, so that everyone can be provided with health services. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, in my view, - and I would like to close with this report - already lost a lot of time, valuable time. The last two constitutional revisions, in 2001 and 2008, there is no doubt that they were revisions that lost their goal and failed. They ambitiously started trying to change everything in the Constitution and eventually didn't change anything or change too little. However, the foundations of the customer state remained in place. Parliamentarianism has remained weak and unprotected and we have paid this tragically, when the crisis and the memorials came, and new centres of power have emerged outside this Chamber. The people have remained out of the political system and have lost their trust even more in the state and institutions. Politics has been deceived. The social state has been shocked by bankruptcy. What we call the Constitutional Treaty of impunity and covertness has been established, with Article 86, which is a shame on the political system. There is no doubt that there are political responsibilities for all of this. Responsibilities that have been sought and continue to be sought, debited and will continue to be charged. Today, however, this is not the time for responsibilities. It is time for the Greek Parliament to take radical initiatives, to go beyond micro-political purposes and tacticalism, to give answers that do not concern today, but tomorrow. To lift the expectations and demands of citizens and to seek consent where they can be sought. I know very well that it will not be easy for a number of reasons to do so, it will not be easy for a number of people to function in this Chamber. Because, despite their views, many will either be manipulated by leaderships that are uniquely appropriate is the late political benefit or are guided by political ills of the current juncture. But we are at risk of losing another ten years. And I think this is self-destructive for the political system and for democracy itself. I therefore call upon the leaders of all the political parties to rethink this process and not to put a question of party discipline in this process. Let Members express their views and suggestions freely and vote freely. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] I am sure that if this happens, the majority of Members will act with a sense of political and social responsibility. It will work in order to reach a consensus where we can, it will disagree where it will confuse constructively and agree where it has to agree in great spirit. That's definitely what SYRIZA is going to do, and that's what I imagine the Independent Greeks are going to do. I hope that the leaderships of the other parties will decide. For us, ladies and gentlemen, there are no proposals - ultimatum, but proposals for debate, proposals to seek consensus, because this requires the Constitution, this requires the legislator who has appointed this procedure, that the Constitution can be changed after two different periods - one hundred and fifty one votes, the other with eighty or one hundred fifty, the other with fifty one - and that requires the end of the day and our political duty, as we understand it. And, of course, this task also concerns the very principles of democracy, of parliamentaryism, of principles that we serve and of principles that we seek in this process to strengthen and shield. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how it operates, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attending from the Rios High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is indeed a top institutional process and is an exclusive prerogative of the House itself. The Constitution itself obliges us to seek wider compositions, wider consensus to change the charter. Such a debate, however, to be truly essential, in order to be constructive, must meet certain basic conditions, a normal political atmosphere, a climate of composition and creative conditions. But the reality is that the country has already entered an election period. The government systematically and persistently divides society and uses all its means to hurt its political opponents. Mr Tsipras, whom I have listened very carefully today, was indeed mild and consensual. It is the same Mr. Tsipras who, in a recent interview, fully acceded to the Polakis doctrine. In addition, the government itself gives the tone of political controversy rather than the opposition itself. Mr Tsipras knows - and that is why he is using constitutional revision as a pretext - that he has no other way of getting away from the harsh reality he has created. Mr Tsipras, since I have listened to you with a lot of synthetic and consensual attitude, let us first agree on something obvious, that if we want to have a substantial debate on the Constitution, obviously we cannot do it in two months - because two months is the time that the government majority seems to want to determine - so that we can discuss proposals that are moving in a wide range of constitutional changes. I would like to remind you that in previous revisions there has always been sufficient time for all the proposals and views of all the Members and all the parties to be heard in the committee responsible. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, you will know - I imagine - that on the issues of constitutional reform, traditionally, there is no party discipline and that Members are free to express their views. I would like to see in the final measurement whether there will be Members who are going to get away from your party line and, if necessary, agree with some of the proposals that we are going to put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally had the great honour of participating, as a new Member of Parliament at the time, in the process of constitutional revision, which had begun in 2006. It was an attempt - I want to remind you - which started with goodwill and high expectations. It ended up being a review indifferent and certainly far below the expectations that had been cultivated. And since I listened to the rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, with caution, I would like to remind him that it was then that PASOK had retreated in the last minute to the revision of Article 16, and we have lost the opportunity to use the constitutional reform to do at least one major reformal section. So we must not repeat the same mistake. In my first statements as newly elected President of the New Democracy, I had clearly said that it is the new Greece that we are envisioned in need of a new constitution. At my first meeting with the Prime Minister, if I remember correctly it was January 2016, in a year of political neutrality, at the beginning of the current government, I had presented a bold but clear path, leading to a radical modernisation of the charter, with democratic debate, scientific documentation and also the seal of popular acceptance. The 1975 Constitution laid the foundations for a long period of political normality and stable democracy. But forty-three years later the time has come for a bold reassessment. Mr Tassoulas was right in saying that it is not the Constitution that is the magic solution for all the problems of the country. However, a modern constitution can offer the greatest to improve the quality of our democracy, to strengthen the efficiency of our state and to stimulate trust between citizens and institutions. So I would like to repeat today the proposal that I made to Mr Tsipras at our first meeting in January 2016. This House, as a proposing parliament, should vote as many articles as possible that will bring all democratic parties to a review. Thus, all changes that each party suggests will be discussed publicly and openly, even in articles that other forces consider to be a reviewer and not others. It will ensure, however, that all the changes that will be agreed, even if some of them may not be agreed or proposed, eventually, Mr Tsipras, will be put to the judgement of the next House, which will also finally decide on the content of the revised articles. With our proposal, citizens will be allowed to vote in the next elections, not only for the next government, but also for the direction in which the new Constitution is to move. And I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, why do you not agree with this proposal? For I read in your rapporteur's report the following sentence: 'Because this is how strong democracies are formed when they trust and not when they fear the popular crisis'. What more democratic, then, should the people themselves decide about the contents of the Constitution's Review? Let me say that, in my view, this is the spirit of the constitutional legislature when it obliges the city to mediate an election procedure so that the process of Revision of the Constitution is divided into two Bulgarians. Of course, the constitutional legislator does not determine whether an eighty-eighty votes are needed in the first or second parliament. So you, Mr Tsipras, who always invoke the power of the popular verdict, why do you think that our proposal is going in the wrong direction? And who ultimately shakes the verdict of the Greek people? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So vote, Mr Tsipras, on our own proposals. We will also vote for yours and the people will decide in their vote in the next elections what to change in the Constitution and in what direction. I think I already know your answer. But I would like to hear it officially in this Chamber in your dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I think a brief retreat is useful in the past. On July 25, 2016, twenty-eight months ago, you had lit red of the House at a very romantic event, you announced a popular consultation on constitutional revision. For more than two years this consultation has been forgotten. You remembered her a few months before the election. You are not interested in the effective revision of the Constitution. Others are your objectives: On the one hand, to transfer the debate from the grim reality that your choices have caused, the dissolution of the middle class through exterior taxation, the heavy moratorium commitments for many years, the ruthless manipulation of justice, the national defeats in major foreign policy issues, such as the issue of Macedonia, and, of course, to transfer the debate from the scandals of the government which are revealed after the other: The 700 million for the 'Free Venizelos', the scandal with the competition in 'Thriasio', the scandal with the defence equipment that Mr. Kambia has gone to sell in Saudi Arabia, the scandal of dismantling European funds for the refugee. Will you, Mr President, schedule the debate we have asked you for two weeks ago on the issues relating to refugee? Of course, the DPRK scandal, recently, has only come to light, because only yesterday, your chosen Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Stathakis, former CEO of DEPA, to which criminal prosecution has been prosecuted to a degree of crime, told us that he had the full cover of top government officials for the operations that have loaded the DPRK by means of feuds. And then you have the nerve to talk about complication. You have become the best representative of dark interests, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, of course, the closer the time you give up power, the more mouths will be opened, and then well done, Mr. Tsipras. The second reason why you are choosing to initiate the process of constitutional revision now is more institutionally wicked. What you want is not a great Review bold. You want a small, lazy Review to the minimum that seems to be possible to agree to cancel for a decade - you said so at the very edge of your speech, Mr Tsipras - any bold modernisation that the next parliamentary majority would bring to the Constitution. You know, this is something that your rapporteur has publicly confessed to with enough cynicism in the Constitutional Review, Mr Katrugalos. I don't see him here. I guess he went to get ready for the next one. So what did Mr Katrugalos say about public intervention - and I want you to notice that - which he did a few weeks ago? It is time to promote those changes that we consider should be made, but also to prevent for a decade those that should not be done. That is what your rapporteur said, and he is not ashamed of being a constitutionalist. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, Mr Tsipras, you will not prevent anything for the simple reason that in the next House you will not also have a majority in your constitutional activism to forget it. I repeat that the New Democracy will not allow you to'stabilize' and the process of constitutional revision. Revisionist populism will not undermine democracy and all political forces will defend it and the Greek people as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the same government proposal. It is no coincidence that it begins with a lie, which you also reiterated today in your first speech, as it is only in the seventh series of the prologue that the review process is inaugurated with the country's clear exit from the memoranda. Yes, it is the same country where today the borrowing rate is at 4.5%, it is practically excluded from the markets, has agreed primary surpluses of 3.5% over five years and 2% by 2060. This is the clear way out, which you, Mr Tsipras, have negotiated and which you have again referred to today. As far as the clear exit is concerned, then, all the twenty-three pages that follow it are the same. What do they include? They include a number of issues on which, in fact, we can agree, a change to which you have made a special reference, the provisions on the immunity of Members and the responsibility of the ministers. I would like to remind you that as a new Member of Parliament in 2006, together with seven colleagues in which Mr Tsoulus is in, he is also Mr Loverdos - and I will repeat this in order to hear it again - we have taken an initiative to collect fifty signatures for review and Article 86, which was not then included in the proposals of either the New Democracy or the PASOK. This letter, which I present in the Minutes, was sent to all Members of the Greek Parliament. We found five more willing to sign. Inside them was neither Mr Drasakis, nor Mr Kouvelis, who were members of the coalition at the time. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, I am very surprised that you have made a reference to the necessary change, which must be done in the article governing the immunity of Members, but you failed to mention that just a few days ago Mr Kammenos and Mr Poppas asked that their immunity should not be lifted so that they would not be brought to court. They're not just hypocrites, but they're cowards too. Your proposal also includes a number of proposals which we consider to be dangerous, such as referendums with signatures, even on social media, perhaps other proposals which are obviously completely incomplete, such as the six-year vote on the election of the President of the Republic. You are proposing that nine votes should be held in order for the President of the Republic finally to be elected. However, the text you have tabled has a very straightforward dissolution. And that is nothing other than the constitutional introduction of the permanent mere analogous. A system which - you know very well - will lead the country to permanent independence. It seems, however, that this is the last thing that concerns you. Finally, certain arrangements are included, such as for State - Church relations, which do not require constitutional revision, as simple legislative interventions are sufficient. Allow me here to comment on this issue, as it is also extremely timely. Even the Church, I'm afraid, works cynically with the government. You face an extremely critical issue as a bilateral bazaar, at the same time raising thousands of priests and creating many problems in the relations between the Greek state and the Patriarchate. What are you baptizing the priests now? As private employees? As something different? However, you are exempted from the Single Payments Authority, assuming that they are not civil servants. At the same time, however, the state budget will still pay them. But, of course, you are given the opportunity to open up ten thousand more recruiting places to settle more customers. I just met the Clergy Association. I repeat here, at the National Representation, what I told them. In our country the Church is the case of an entire people. That is why the regulation of State-Church relations cannot be secretly done by the people, it cannot be done without the people and much more cannot be done with the people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will not accept any change that creates conditions of insecurity to the clergy. The simple priest is a support of every local society, whether it is to some or not. And I want to assure the clergy not only that they enjoy our full support, but also our respect and that this mockery of the government is not going to pass. Because mockery and fraud, Mr Tsipras, is to say that ten thousand posts are empty in public, while the clergy are still being paid by the state. And our view is clear. Article 3 does not require any revision. For such a review can only jeopardise the balance of relations between the Church of Greece and the Patriarchate. And for those who are interested in the notorious religious neutrality, let them read not Article 3, but Article 13 of the Constitution, which fully guarantees freedom of religious conscience and equal treatment of all religions by the state. We defend the protection of religious freedom, but with respect for our history and our culture and, of course, with respect for the fact that the majority of our fellow citizens are Orthodox Christians. The state cannot be indifferent and cannot underestimate the religious faith of 95% of the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One more thing. The Church is not a company and of course its mission is not to make money. Of course, she has every right to take advantage of her property to support her charitable work, and that is something that the state should make it easier for her. However, this must be done in accordance with the laws, conditions and tax burdens applicable to all. And, of course, the existence of different ecclesiastical regimes in Greece is an advantage, it is not a disadvantage, and the government in question must protect these regimes, give equal opportunities and not create dissimilar and inequality between them. Mr Tsipras, I have to tell you that I have listened very carefully to you analysing your proposals for the Constitutional Review and I am really wondering. It takes a lot of courage to introduce you, especially you, to expand the institution of referendums, when you are the same person who stayed in modern Greek history as the man who humiliated the concept of referendum! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I honestly wonder: Three years after this referendum, which took place in just six days when you evoked citizens to vote 'no' in the referendum and two days after you turned it into a grand 'yes', do you feel the need somehow to apologise for this monumental shift of yours? I do not know if you had a clean or blurred mind at that time, but one thing is certain, that this adventure has cost the country, Mr Tsipras, more than EUR 100 billion. And we are still paying the bill today and will pay it for many more years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If I understood correctly, your proposals include a proposal for permanent public energy control. Aren't you telling me, right now, that you're not discussing PPC's privatisation? Aren't you the one who assigned the entire public property even our archaeological monuments to the superstition for ninety-nine years? And, of course, I heard you talk about the new way of electing the President of the Republic so that - I read from your proposal - 'no political continuity is disturbed'. How courageous you have, Mr. Tsipras, when you have thrown the government of Antonis Samaras using just this article to come now and talk about non-reconciliation of political continuity! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Recognise at least that what you did at that time was absolute political opportunism and come and talk about it again. You have thrown the then government into the Greeks' back to try your own delusion. It makes no sense to refer more to your proposal. In our view, it is an anachronistic and ideological text. But I want you to be careful what the funds you do not propose, Mr Tsipras, are to change absolutely nothing: public administration, education, development, justice, good legislation, budgetary stability. Nothing, but absolutely nothing, you're not suggesting all those funds. You are leaving on the substance intact the structures that have contributed precisely to today's regression, because it is precisely to them that SYRIZA bets to bring Greece into its own small measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting today to the National Representation the New Democracy proposal for a large, bold constitutional revision. It concerns a total of fifty-seven of the 20 articles of the Constitution in contrast to the proposal of the SYRIZA concerning twenty-three articles. The thirteen articles are common, although our suggestions in several of them are in a different direction. Our proposal is a bold and progressive proposal. However, it is a proposal which is consistent with the values we stand for. It encourages growth, promotes evaluation, enhances dignity, stimulates solidarity, strengthens credibility, and if this proposal is adopted, our country will indeed have a new Constitution for a new Greece. We will normally participate in the Review Committee. We will be present everywhere to compare with the regression in every article and in every paragraph of our charter. In this spirit, the New Democracy comes to this debate as the responsible force of the place and we put forward our own comprehensive proposal based on the following three principles: Principle one. The new Constitution must be simple without anachronistic provisions and ensure the continuity and effectiveness of the state. Separate powers, shield and strengthen Parliament, as well as shielding justice. To establish accountability and restore the price of the political system. This means that a stable four-year cycle is established and the reasons for the early dismantling of the House are limited. It also abolishes the abuse of national reliance. The House dismantles itself by a decision of the absolute majority, while the early elections, if the parliament chooses to do so, concern the remaining time until the set date of the four-year cycle. The election of the President of the Republic is completely disconnected by the early dissolution of the Parliament. Allow me here to extend a little further to the reasonable consideration that Mr Tsipras has developed. We have discussed in detail in our parliamentary group how the President of the Republic can be elected if he cannot achieve the broad constitutionally anticipated consensus of three fifths. And even though we had tabled as an initial proposal for consultation, if that is not the case, we should finally resort to a lasting solution to the election of the President of the Republic by the people, with a mature debate that we held in the parliamentary group, to conclude that this is ultimately not the right solution. And it is not the right solution to the simple reason that, in this case, the President-elected by the people, not just will have increased legitimacy, but if we get to the election of the President from the people, this will have happened because we will not have been able to have a consensusly elected President. So the consensually elected President, who may have been elected by parliament and who has accomplished the purpose of the constitutional legislature, will ultimately have less legitimacy than any other President, who will have been elected directly by the people. This means, however, that a solution needs to be found to the problem of the election of the President of the Republic and we are open to discussing alternative proposals, such as, possibly, the election of the President of the Republic by an enlarged electorate or as a last resort, the election of the President of the Republic by a simple majority of 50 Members. One thing is certain, in any case, that the constitutional review should completely remove the election of the President of the Republic from the national elections. The President of the Republic in our proposal is in fact holding his responsibilities. The Council of Political Heads will also be able to convene. In our proposal, too, Parliament is being strengthened by rules of good law and minority rights are guaranteed. It finally acquires constitutional safeguards to combat crime and pluralism and to codify legislation. Examination committees may be set up only two per parliamentary term, but they may also be set up if the proposal in question is voted for by two fifths of Members. In other words, we will give you, as opposition, the right you have denied us, to set up committees of inquiry with the two-fifths of this House. I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that you did not vote for any proposal from the New Democracy to set up a committee of inquiry. Of course we are proposing to change the Rule on immunity of Members and the responsibility of the ministers. The immunity of Members must be limited to offences committed in the performance of the duties of Members, and the special expropriation period for the offences of the Ministers must also be abolished. And I refer again to Rule 86, which reminds me once again that when I proposed that it should be reviewed, the coalition then whistled indifferently. Last and most important: Justice is upheld by the government and the selection of senior judges among the oldest of them comes to Parliament. The Special Court of Disputes of Judges is abolished and this jurisdiction lies with the Supreme Special Court, which also has the possibility of carrying out preventive control of constitutional law. All the judges have to leave in their seventh year, and for three years they have been excluded from government or political positions, so that we do not see, Mr Tsipras, a maximum of judiciary one day after their retirement can be recruited as Prime Minister's advisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u125	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u126	The above are, for example, Articles 32 to 76, 82 to 88 and Article 101. Principle 2. The new Constitution guarantees the stable economic environment, the fiscal stability and the development of the country. This means that yes, constitutional mechanisms are being introduced that prevent the country's financial derailment. The budgets of the State must be balanced or comply with the maximum permitted budgetary deficit. I imagine you know, Mr Tsipras, that we have an obligation as a Member State of the Treaty on Stability and Governance but also as signatories to the budgetary pact to do so, and I really do wonder that you did not find a word about it. Healthy competition is stimulated, entrepreneurship is recognised, while taxes and other burdens are imposed only on the future and do not have retroactive effect. The environment is protected with modern tools. Protection from climate change, the biggest threat facing our country in the long term, finds its place in the Constitution. Local government acquires own resources, as well as accountability mechanisms. Its budgets should ensure fiscal equilibrium and transparency. Of course, the full autonomy of the public HEIs is true, but it changes Article 16, and private universities are finally operating in our country under the supervision of an independent high prestige authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u127	Or else you've been talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u129	I see a concern among my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u130	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u131	Please specify the change of position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u132	Okay, what's your problem? I don't understand. Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u133	I was very clear about what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u134	Don't give up on changing positions. Tomorrow the committee begins, where everything will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u135	The asylum of ideas is taken care of by the state and institutions are finally returning to their students and teachers, because we are not only interested in private universities, but above all public institutions. You, obviously, Mr Tsipras, consider academic freedom to enter the public university, the bazaars, the rubbish, the drug dealers, and to rob teachers, even within the universities. We call that down and has humiliated the country internationally, on your own sole responsibility! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The provision that abolishes asylum, fortunately, does not require a constitutional change. It will be one of the first to vote for our new government. But since we are talking about Article 16, I would like to ask you another question, Mr Tsipras: if anyone like you, I, and many of our colleagues, can trust private education for our children in kindergarten, primary school, high school, why do we deny them that right at university? Why, with your attitude today, do you consent to leaving our country tens of thousands of young children to study abroad in private universities and thus deprive our economy of valuable revenues? And why are you finally insisting that Greece be the only country in the world that keeps the state monopoly in public education when this has even been abolished in North Korea? We will insist to the end on the need to change Article 16, because the New Democracy considers this change of major importance... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and of course the other articles to which I referred, in 17, 24, 78, 79, 82, 102 and 106. Starting third: Our Constitution must ensure social solidarity and equal opportunities, as a vehicle of social mobility and a welfare treaty for all, to address the clientele structures of the state and strengthen civil society. That means a citizen unprotected, all with access to education, health and culture, with the right to the safe life guaranteed by the state, but also the introduction to the Constitution of a minimum guaranteed income for a decent living. The AACC alone selects the management staff, the internal structure of which is established and a constitutional evaluation at all levels. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this is on the basis of the principles of impartiality, professional competence and efficiency, and from the point of view of those who are present to their heads. Finally, information is recognised as a real public asset. Licences shall be issued exclusively by the National Broadcasting Council. The above are, in general, Articles 4, 15, 25 and 103. As I said before, the New Democracy has worked out and proposed concrete changes to fifty-seven articles from one hundred and twenty of today's constitution. These changes shall be multiplied if they are treated in combination with arrangements contained in various articles. It is a radical, a bold proposal which recommends the abolition of eight articles, where obsolete transitional provisions are maintained. From this point of view, the process of constitutional review itself emerges, Mr Tsipras - and I shall end with this - in a direct comparison of the proposals of the New Democracy with those of the SYRIZA, in a place where the truth is mirrored in relation to lies, the responsibility towards turbulence, the validity of amateurism, in short, progress towards preservation. Our proposal has a clear identity, which is not only the emergence of an effective state in the service of the citizen but also the inspiring of a sense of trust towards the institutions, towards the political system. We are putting it today in the crisis of Parliament and of the citizens as a basis for discussion with all democratic political forces. In conclusion, however, I would like to make it clear: the New Democracy is in no way going to consent to a tooling reform of the Constitution that will keep Greece blocked in anachronistic structures. We will not allow another chance of brave rebuilding the institutions. We feel the responsibility towards the next generations to prevent a shrinked reform initiative that will put an end to our constitutional order for at least a decade. That is why we will be blocking this development by all means, which the legal order itself and the Constitution itself provide us, today as a Qualified Opposition and tomorrow in the House of Reform with the confidence of the citizens as the next parliamentary majority. So if you want, Mr Tsipras, to prove in practice that you mean what you say about the possibility of investigating wider consensus, you come to have a bold and honest dialogue and to broaden the scope of the revised articles. You have the ability to prove that you mean all of what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u137	Do you want intervention, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u138	This is not the case, Mr President, by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u139	Please, Mrs. Gennamas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u140	Give him the word at the end!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u141	Please! In the past ten times this procedure has been done and the next ten will take place. You know that very well. Especially today, when the Chief of Officerial Opposition perfectly comfortable spoke for seventeen minutes more, obviously, the Prime Minister can intervene. He's requesting intervention. You will also speak as long as you want and will do secondary and intervention if necessary. Stop the litigation. You've had a problem since morning. I don't get it. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u142	It is a question of respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u143	The Prime Minister asked for an intervention!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u144	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u145	What are you talking about? An intervention by the Prime Minister following the speech by Mr Mitsotakis or even a reply is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure? What are you talking about? Please! You will all speak with comfort. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I am not asking for the floor because Mr Mitsotakis spoke more, but because Parliament is also a living dialogue field, not just parallel monologues, and I will take care as soon as I can make a few comments. I shall not go into any other issues, nor will life itself be disgusting all the previous forecasts, and we will also find another time to compare them - nor with what we have heard here about scandals and other ones. I will refer only to issues relating to the constitutional review, Mr Mitsotakis. I have the feeling that you have not been enthusiastic and studied, not you personally, your party two years now on the subject of constitutional reform. Because in addition to your objections to some of the things that SYRIZA is proposing, I did not understand you having a proposal consistently, with courage and something specific to propose. Allow me to express my opinion, there have been some strangers in the proposals you have put forward, not all of them, but above all in terms of how much you think and how you place yourself on some major issues of the Review, which you had at the bottom - under two and a half years and a half. From January 2016, you came and found me and, indeed, you suggested to me to initiate the review process. And I'll be clearer what I'm talking about. First - first - first of all what you said. You started your speech by saying that we cannot find consensus now, because consensus requires a normal political climate, and we are now in an election process. But, Mr. Mitsotakis, in January 2016 you came to discuss the prospect of Revision of the Constitution and a month later you started asking for elections. Since February 2016, we have been constantly according to you in a constant election climate. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, you are coming and tabling a proposal which is completely inconsistent with the very spirit of the constitutional legislator. What proposal? The proposal, which says: 'Come to open it all'. The legislator provides for a specific procedure for the revision of the Constitution, because it is precisely because there are wider consents to the maximum procedure for the revision of the Constitution. The legislator does not say: 'Come and open everything and go to the second period'. The legislator says that in the first period there must be or an eighty or a hundred and fifty one votes, and in the second, after elections, the reversal, just to create osmosis and possible as wide a political force as possible and as wide a majority as possible. And as soon as I announced my proposal for the Review, you come today, the same man who a few days ago, not months ago, had expressed leaks of your intention not to participate at all, because it is not mature to move on to the Review - that is what your leaks said - not to propose some provisions, even a little more than those twenty-three that we are proposing, but you are proposing to suggest fifty-seven. And you say fifty-seven and twenty-three, voting for all, that is to say, having eighty of the hundred twenty articles of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u147	Thirteen are the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u148	To have more than two thirds of the Constitution under review.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u149	It would be sixty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u150	Is the number sixty-seven small? For over half the articles of the Constitution, can we proceed to a review process? This is not a review process. Didn't you get it and want a editorial assembly? Do you want to rebuild our Constitution? We're open to talk about it, if that's your suggestion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But if that's your proposal, don't come and tell us the logic of Russian roulette, turn the next electoral confrontation into a referendum on the Constitution. Because that's what you're saying. Obviously, you do not get the message of the disaster, and you say: 'Let's gamble to make the next vote on the Constitution'. And if you so much like referendums, which you do not like in the end, come and suggest an advisory referendum on the Constitution and not turn the next election into a referendum for the Constitution. If you put forward a proposal for an advisory referendum on the Constitution or some provisions, here we are talking about it. But what you are proposing is a degeneration process for the review process itself. Let's go down. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You are coming, Mr Mitsotakis, and you are on such a critical subject, which has been on the agenda for two years now - it is not today - that is the election of the President of the Republic, with a position that I have tried to understand, but I do not understand it. Two and a half years before we started the discussion - we didn't paint the House red or light it red, what to do? I had a backwards with the colours of SYRIZA, which are red, Mr Mitsotakis, but red in the House we have not yet lit it - and we therefore propose that the election of the President of the Republic should be disconnected from the possible dissolution of the House and we propose an election procedure. So then we gave the idea to political dialogue, to the parties and to the social bodies involved in the national dialogue, to the third election, to the fruitless, to be directly elected by the people. After much and mature thought, discussion, participation in this dialogue, we, as a parliamentary group, have come up with a similar proposal. When we first said in the third unfavourable election procedure, you disagreed and said 'no'. When we said 'no' to the third unfavourable election by the people, but after six months of election by the people, you adopted our first opinion. When after a week - not more - you come here to the Step of the House, you say that neither that view nor yours do we have a point of view, we do not have an opinion. We say we go, possibly, to the hundred and fifty one and go to a third version. Excuse me, but that's not the position of Chief of Staff. Perhaps, it is the attitude and position of the former President of the Edessian, but it is not the position and attitude of the President of the Officerial Representation on such a crucial issue, which we have been discussing for two and a half years in public political dialogue. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That's why I'm telling you that it's unresolved, foreigners' position and attitude to constitutional revision. So I go further than Article 86. You came here today and told us that although the political system, which you have been serving all the previous years and today and which had appalling majorities in this House, did not agree to revise in the 2008 Review, which started in 2006, Article 86, you, except for this system, because you had tabled a proposal by letter which - I don't know who - received then. Really, for whom is that reproach, Mr. Mitsotakis? Is it reproach for Mr Kuveli - I do not see him now - who was a Member of Parliament at the time and SYRIZA had six Members? Do you not know that, in order to be submitted to Parliament, a proposal for a revision is needed 50 Members? So it is because the fifty MPs, who had six, or your party, who had sixty-three MPs and the PASOK, who had one hundred fourteen MPs, a total of two hundred seventy-seven MPs? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Who's that reproach for? Do you understand? I guess, for the then Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, he's obviously reproached. So it is reproaching your own parties. If it is reproaching your own party that it did not want to revise this shameful Article 86 on the responsibility of the ministers, say it clearly. Don't tell us it's SYRIZA and his six MPs in 2006 that wasn't revised. Let's go down. You are talking about the'stabilisation' of the Constitution, because you say - and you say - dangerous positions and proposals, such as the popular initiative, the popular legislative initiative, the referendums and a constitutionally regulated proportionality of electoral law. Yes, sir. Let me read to you, Mr Mitsotakis, a proposal and ask you if you remember this proposal. He said, "Legislation through the way of the people's initiative and, indeed, both legislative referendum and referendum on critical national issues. The aim of this proposal is to multiply and strengthen the institutions of direct democracy." Have you signed it? Do you know whose it is? Today's President of the Republic and then head of the committee set up by the then Prime Minister Samaras - of the New Democracy - for the Revision of the Constitution. Did your party make such dangerous proposals then? I'll go down. I continue: 'The New Democracy, therefore, said in 2004' - with your signature - 'that the analogous system is more in line with the needs of the expansion of the democratic legitimacy of the Parliament, as a consequence of which the government, which is based on Parliament's confidence'. So who says that, Mr Mitsotakis? Do we want to "stabilise" the Constitution, when we propose the popular legislative initiative and referendums on a critical national issue and the simple analogue, including the proposal you have signed, obviously without having read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u151	We haven't signed the proposal, but the articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u152	Let's go down. Mr. Mitsotakis will answer. You have a leader to answer, Mr. Meimarakis. All right, the articles, all right. However, as far as the proposal is concerned, you do not question me reading any other text. I read part of the proposal. But it is the proposal of the New Democracy, so it is not a'stabilisation' of the Constitution which has been tabled by your party. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u153	I guess you're starting to leave New Democracy and go to the extremes. You probably have started choosing another political space, becoming a People's Orthodox Alert. I guess you guys! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let's go down. Article 3: I come to the most famous debate on Article 3. I guess before I say Article 3, to say, Mr. Mitsotakis, why did I hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u154	That's secondary, it's not intervention!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u155	But you don't want the dialogue? Do you want me to sit down and not listen to the Prime Minister? Is that your problem? Isn't your Chief capable of answering? What's wrong with you? Let me finish! Let me answer! He talked twenty minutes more. Why don't you want the dialogue? Church: Mr Mitsotakis, immediately after the proposal was made public, which we reached with the Archbishop, you made an announcement. It was November 6, 2018, the same night. In the announcement you said: "The New Democracy welcomes the delay in adopting its fixed position by SYRIZA, with regard to State-Church relations. Today it proved to be a great deal of...".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u156	You can't even understand irony!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u157	Oh, you were being ironic, really?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u158	You didn't even understand that, and I thought you had a sense of humor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u159	Don't iron yourself like that! But is it possible, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you make announcements and get ironic and humorous? So I keep going. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. Tell the Greek people that on such crucial historical issues, when you make announcements, you make irony and humor! Tell the Greek people, but that's probably not it! So the communication said: "Today, it has proved to be a great deal that outstanding issues can well be regulated by legislative initiatives", initiatives which the Government of New Democracy has been taking since 2013. So you made a statement on 6 November, not only by accepting that this was a position, but by saying that it was yours. What's changed? Today, on the 14th day of the month, that is, only eight days later, get another announcement, since you see the clergy, in which you say that the New Democracy had no prior information, neither the Government nor the Archdiocese, before the announcements in question. Beware: satisfaction began to be "we had no information". And you said: "Improvely this is another communication trick of the government and I sincerely regret the fact that the leadership of the Church of Greece was used by Mr. Tsipras". I wonder how we came from expressing our satisfaction and effort to adopt the proposal - it was yours and we took it from you - on 6 November in the grief and in the attacks - side or straight - not to the Prime Minister - that is what you do and it makes sense - but to the Church of Greece. What's changed? Did you get your ears pulled by the wing of the People's Orthodox Alert in your party and changed your mind and your mind, Mr. Mitsotakis? And, in any case, I come to the essence of the matter. You've taken a step further. You said that, whatever happens, you will in no way adopt this prospect, namely that there will be about ten thousand priests - who are now being paid by the Single Payments Authority - who are in the broadest sense in the wage bill - not as civil servants in the narrow but broad sense. I would never adopt the term 'public servant' for a religious official. So you said that you will never implement it. In fact, you insist that whatever the government that has managed to take the 'one intake for five withdrawals', the Memorandum of Understanding, which you had signed with the institutions, on 'one to one', you, if you become a government, will return to 'one to five'. So you don't want doctors, teachers, firefighters, nurses. Not all civil servants, as you say, are people who should not be in their seats. Here we have serious deficits in positions of the social state very important. You don't want them all. You want to reintroduce to 'one to five'. But the ten thousand priests, you want them to be paid by the public payroll. You want them to stay. You want a small public too and it contains ten thousand priests. So what you say, Mr Mitsotakis, and that is why I say that your proposals are foreigners, is the definition of where the marriage of neoliberalism can lead to extreme conservativeism, nationalistism, which has the far right wing of your party. The New Democracy has unfortunately become the sum of the action of a neoliberal party, which has previously existed and now is to you, and the People's Orthodox Alert. That's the reality. But, Mr Mitsotakis, not respecting the pensioners, the uniforms, for whom you were saying other things the other day, the workers, for whom you do not want collective agreements, are perhaps understandable. You don't respect the Church? The Archbishop, you don't respect him? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] You're laughing. You talked about a sketchy deal in the leg.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u160	It's your deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u161	Did I do it alone? Wasn't it a deal with the Church? Wasn't it a proposal for an agreement with the Archbishop on a historic subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u162	It was intent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u163	Don't shout. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u164	Do not spread. So you're saying the Archbishop is rough and making foot deals. And you have reached the point - Mrs Spyraki said - to speak of a pre-election and avata of the Archbishop to SYRIZA. So, as our people say, neither sacred nor loyal, in order to oppose this government! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You said a moment ago that you wanted a constitution - descriptive principles, you did not make any substantial proposals, apart from wanting to go ahead with the revision of Article 16 and the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism - unnecessarily and anachronisticly. Yes, sir. That's a great word. I fully agree with you. But you are also coming to Article 3 and you say that no modernization, no change is taking place. What does Article 3 say? The provision of Article 3, which we say is unnecessary and that it must be made simpler, modernised - what you are saying in general as a philosophy for the Constitution - says that the translation of the Bible is not permitted without permission. It is a provision that entered the Constitution the distant 1911, in view of the historical context at the time, which has long ceased to have any significance, how much more so in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u165	Is that why you change Article 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u166	Mr Mitsotakis, in addition to the addition to the neutral religion of the state that I have explained to you and possibly there is ideological opposition, when you talk about a Constitution simple, without unnecessary anachronistic provisions, but deny this repair, this change, then I honestly do not understand exactly what you are advocating and exactly what you want. I wonder how a liberal citizen, as you say, needs to feel, with a constitutional provision requiring prior permission to translate a text of the Bible into municipality that, apart from a text of theological character and a sacred book, for Christians is also a monument to the world secretariat of historical and philosophical value. In short, Mr Mitsotakis, while you do not want to be licensed or canalarchs to set up a television station, you want to get permission - and indeed to be guaranteed in the Constitution - whoever wants to translate into the municipal Bible! That is why I am telling you that your proposals and positions are foreigners and are a birth of the political context and of the incredible, really, trying to make micropolitical opposition to everything. And I'm closing up with this. You spoke of Articles 16, 79, 24 and 106. Here are some points on which we cannot find consensus because we have a different ideological and political position. That does not mean that we cannot have a strong confrontation if necessary. But allow me two phrases for each. Article 79. You are proposing that the so-called 'cutter' be allowed a financial strand should not result in budgetary deficits. We are not in favour of deficits, you have made them, your governments. We've brought surpluses. However, I would like to remind you that, when we brought two years ago and voted only for a certain period of time - in order to adapt to the objectives of the programme - a cut-off, you made us a criticism that no one could stand, saying that we are bringing the cut-off, bringing the cut-off, bringing the cut-off, bringing the cut-off. Eventually it was not implemented because we succeeded. And you who are now making this criticism, want to bring him to the constitution itself. Explain to me how all these things happen. Let's go down. Article 16. Mr Mitsotakis, I understood that your position on Article 16 was mainly about the weakness that the old political system had at the time - otherwise you found everything after that - to go ahead with the revision of Article 16, due to the resistance between 2006 and 2008, both to the popular base of PASOK and to the movement of students and students. All right, you can figure this out between you two. You say you missed a chance. Look at you, we are not going to join this view, because we do not think this change will benefit the social majority. You say and say again that public universities are in a tragic situation, in a situation of lawlessness. Yes, sir. Even if we accepted this criticism, which is also defamatory to the public university, please explain to me why, if the constitution adopts the creation of private universities, the public university could be upgraded. And explain this to me, when we know very well that your proposal is not accompanied by a proposal to increase public education expenditure. Because in the light of the current competition framework of the European Union, if there are constitutionally regulated private universities, the state should grant equal subsidies to public and private. Therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, what your proposal will bring is a very simple thing: public universities should be further downgraded and able to have a decent, important, quality education only this student, who is the student whose parents' financial capacity is strong. As long as we are here - and we will be enough about the opposition we have - education for the heirs and for the children of the people we will not allow. All Greeks will be equal to the supreme good of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor, please. At least there is an equivalency in the total time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u168	Twenty-five minutes he talked. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u169	Don't complain. You have heard all the conversation and you will be able to place yourself in comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u170	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u171	What is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u172	You're President of the entire House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u173	Twenty-five minutes! That's a disgrace. The institutions are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Constantinople, leave the shame. Please! Essential and comfortable conversation takes place. I don't understand. Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u175	The institutions are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u176	Is it wrong? Why do you say that? Don't you have the right to talk as long as you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u177	You are President of Parliament. You're not a party master.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u178	I'd be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u179	Keep the Rules of Procedure up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Mitsotakis will be shorter than he told me. Don't revolt. The parity is an essential size.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u181	You're not a party master.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u182	As long as I leave you say things that aren't right and you know that. I keep low tons as I should. Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u183	I'm afraid you're making mistakes, Mr. Tsipras. He was not President of the Edessian, he was Vice President. And that's wrong. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now let's go to the rest. Obviously, Mr. Tsipras, you don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u184	Be quiet. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u185	Everything in about. For Mr. Tsipras everything is in about, as for you after all. Now we're actually going to the point. Mr Tsipras, I fear that you have not fully understood the spirit of the review procedure as provided for in Article 110 of the Constitution. Rule 110 is absolutely clear. It states that an increased majority is required, either in the nominated or in the revised parliament, and calls for an election campaign to be held precisely to ensure that there is a popular legitimacy of the reform process itself. It does not determine whether the hundreds of eighty-five votes must be assembled in the first House or in the second. This is a weakness of the review process, which is why we are also proposing the revision of Article 110. It also makes it clear that the content of the proposed parliament does not commit to the Review House. Let us make this quite clear, because in your proposal, I saw an interpretation of the Constitution, which deviates from the views of a large majority of constitutionalists, namely that you can commit the next House not only to the proposed articles, but also to the content of the review. Forget it. This constitutional activism will forget him, because it is completely contrary to the spirit and letter of the Constitution. So what did I tell you, Mr. Tsipras? That if we want to make a broad review, and if we really want to do the spirit of the Constitution, which tells us that the popular verdict, which is intervening between the two Bulgarians, has reason to exist, precisely because the people have an opinion on the Constitution, to come and agree in a broader context of revised articles and the next Parliament, then it can shape, either by simple or by a qualified majority, the contents of these revised articles. Why is that bothering you, Mr. Tsipras? What are you afraid of? I understand from your style and from your concern, when you were talking about these issues, that you have almost anticipated the election result. Say it clearly: we will lose the elections and we do not want to accept the New Democracy proposal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But if you really believe that you will win the next elections, only winners can you be, because you will be able by a simple majority rather than by strengthening the content of the articles as you like. I understand, then, that your refusal to accept my proposal has to do with the fact that you probably have discounted the election result, but that is your thing. However, it certainly contradicts everything you say about strengthening the people's verdict and the role of citizens in shaping political developments. I think that all of this can be written out on the major issue, which I propose to you, namely to make a more extensive review, I understand that you are completely against it. I shall briefly refer to two of the articles to which you have referred. Firstly, on the question of Article 3. If I understood what you said to us well, with the proposal that you have proposed or agreed - because we, a communiqué, have only seen - at this time you are about ten thousand priests dismissing. That's what you're telling us. Because in order to create ten thousand new positions, some must have left. Isn't that right, Mr. Tsipras? Don't fool around here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you made a reference to the communication that we made, to the issues of the exploitation of church property, we are obviously in agreement and you follow up what we did in 2013, to add a dimension that is perhaps a great deal of discussion, but in this matter, we do not in principle disagree. But tell me, Mr. Tsipras, to these people who are now being paid by the Single Payments Authority and consider and are types of civil servants, what do you come and tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u186	They're not civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u187	They're accounted for as civil servants, Mr. Tsipras. What we want to name them is secondary. What are you telling them? Who's gonna be their employer? What will their insurance rights be, and why are you causing an insecurity, which does not even have a financial benefit for the state? Because if you were to tell me that, okay, we are saving a sum and, in any case, we do not want the priests to be paid by the state and paid by the Church, to understand that. But you don't say that. You say, if they are no longer civil servants - we put them in a regime of great personal insecurity - at the same time I will continue to pay them, to make fun of some people and to say that I release ten thousand jobs, to make ten thousand more recruitments. These are terraces, Mr. Tsipras! It is populism of the unscrupulous kind, to which you are striving and not just because you are mocking some people, who are doing a very important job today too. For each priest is a support for every local society and I refer not only to his religious duties but also to the social work that the Church performs. This is carried out by the parish priests, it is not accomplished by the metropolitans and the dominates, to be clear here what is now the Church of Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you come over all these people because it suits you and you want to appoint ten thousand more friends and friends in public, say to them, "Start aside, I will still pay you and of course charge the budget with your own budget." At least hypocritical and I expect to see and how this case will eventually end up with this agreement, which you have done with the Church of Greece. And in order not to take much of the time and I fully understand the justified reactions of the other political leaders, but you, Mr President, have allowed this dialogue to take place in violation of the usual order of speakers... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why do you disagree? I wouldn't mind talking to you in the end. Mr. Tsipras chose to speak now, I'll answer him now. I have no problem with that. Article 16, then. You're totally messed up here, Mr. Tsipras. What did you tell us here? That if there is a constitutional guarantee of private education, the State is obliged to grant private universities too, because that is what is necessary. I don't even know what you said. In that sense, the state should also be subsidising private hospitals, should it not? But what are you talking about, Mr. Tsipras? What are you talking about, who writes them to you? Or, in any case, let you have a very basic understanding that from nowhere there is no obligation for the state to subsidise any private educational establishment, because otherwise it should also subsidise the private school and the private kindergarten. I'm sorry, what kind of shit are you talking about? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And one more thing on the substance. Because you talked to us again about the poor and rich children, which are separated and that only the rich go to private schools and private universities, look to see: Fifty thousand Greek students who study abroad today and choose to pay for their education are not all rich, Mr. Tsipras. Above all, they are middle-class children and you deny them the opportunity to choose - be careful - to be able to study in their country. Make it possible for Greece to become a training centre throughout the Southeast Mediterranean. And who told you, Mr. Tsipras, that private universities automatically mean the deterioration of the public university? If you go to Cyprus today and talk to the public universities in Cyprus, they will tell you that they have been favoured by the noble competition with private universities and have been upgraded along the way. But in any case, Mr Tsipras, our concern is not so much the establishment of private universities. This is something that, after changing the Constitution, will be late and will take several years to give rise to private universities in our country. Our main concern, Mr Tsipras, is the public university, for which, once again, you have not said a single word. You told us in this Chamber that we discredit the public university when we highlight the reality that teachers and students are experiencing today. I had a few days ago the teachers of public universities in my office and what they are experiencing, Mr Tsipras, is a terrible situation. This is an unacceptable situation. Nowhere in the world public university is occupied by collectives that forbid other students to be able to do their homework Thursday and Friday, because that is how Ruvicon likes it. If that's the way you mean student and student activism, forget that, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The public university is public space and we have arrived with your own athletics today to have an area in Greece only, in which one cannot express his opinion, and he should be the public university. Because today at the public university, if you say something that doesn't like 'bugs', you're stinging, you're beaten up, you're crumbling. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, this misery, the next day, as the Greek people trust us, will change and the asylum will be completely abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u188	Completely?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u189	Totally! The public university is public space, at nothing different from a park, from a hospital, from any public space and the "bugs" and the various "Ruviks" who today have occupied the public university, and the drug dealers, know that the next day they will be thrown out of the public university, to return the public university to those who really belong, to their students and teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u191	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u192	Mr Mitsotakis, you have obviously confused them, because there is nowhere to be found in the private university. At least not in the European Charter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u193	Who's telling you this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u194	Therefore, if there is constitutional assurance, universities present in the European Charter, then they will be subject to the provisions laid down in the current competition framework of the European Union. And they obviously have nothing to do with private universities and private schools, kindergartens, or private nursery. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] As colleagues are protesting here, we will have a special debate on Article 16 and education. I just want to take the floor to say two things. In relation to the priests: The priests today, clergymen, Mr. Mitsotakis, are permanent not because they are considered public officials or because they enjoy the public permanentity in the Constitution, but because this is provided for in the Charter of the Church of Greece. They do not fall under Law 103 of the Constitution for civil servants. So I would suggest an agreement that has a special historical character and comes to give an institutional solution with compromises not to be demagogled. And that's not because you don't like this deal, because if you didn't like it, you wouldn't be rushing the same night to make a statement that you accepted it. It wasn't ironic, don't make fun of the Greek Parliament, someone took your ear. Do not, however, demagogize with matters that have such a strong institutional content and with matters that concern the State and the Church for over seventy years. The political confrontation within Parliament and the confrontation of the parties will always exist. Try, at least as you can, on matters that go beyond the current controversy not to denounce unsuitablely to the illusions of certain clergy voters, just as you did on the other crucial big issue, the national point where you had another view, you may have in your hearts, and in order to fish in the blundering waters of the extreme right, you have changed your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u195	Skopje? Are you referring to Skopje? Why don't you say it by his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u196	I'm referring to naming, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u197	Right-wing, everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u198	With the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There's a name for this country. It's called the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia all these years. Did you know, Mr. Mitsotakis? It's not Skopje. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're worldly too, go abroad. In any case, you say other means outside. As you said yesterday, other things you said to Serbia you went to, but you say on the inside. Let's go down and hang up with this. You made a critical observation, and I'm really going to say this and I'm closing up, because you shouldn't fall down on it. You said that one House proposes the articles which will be revised and the other Parliament will be responsible for the content of the revision. Now I understand why, Mr. Mitsotakis, you've been caught by this pain, this panic, that stress. You say that you want a review, as you say you do not want a review. Because what you really want is for you, your resignation, that is, to move not on what we may consent, as the constitutional legislator says, but to proceed to an ideological review of your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u199	There's no ideological review.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u200	Of course, it is not politically neutral to review the constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u201	Let's move on a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u202	That is why you propose something unprecedented, that is to say, not to investigate the maximum possible consensus on what we can and it is to be guaranteed by either a hundred and eighty votes in this House and a hundred and fifty one in the next, or a hundred and eighty in the next, and how much more to the very mature issues, on the crucial issues, and a hundred and fifty one in the next, but with a process that has been heard and unprecedented since 1974 for parliamentary data. So you said your point of view and even wanted to substantiate it by saying that it is a firmly established view, because no other constitutionalist has the opposite view, that is, the one that says that it is the first parliament that is proposing it, but there is also a vote in the Proposing House to commit, in their direction, the articles that will choose to be revised. I therefore have to present to you a relevant note from the Professor of Law of Constantine Giannakopoulos on the procedure of the Constitutional Review entitled "The possibility of committing the House to the essential directions of the proposed Parliament". [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to remind you, Mr. Mitsotakis... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll see, don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u203	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u204	I would like to remind you that there is already a decision by the Supreme Special Court which makes this very interpretation, which I said to you, namely that the Proposed House does not only commit the Review House to articles, but also to the direction at least of the review. I am not saying the word 'content'. In the direction. Furthermore - and I close with this - because you mentioned today and I heard yesterday's statements and leaks that no serious constitutionalist... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You're asking me about the name, who is this Yannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u205	"Janakopoulos" you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u206	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no. Giannakopoulos. You didn't listen well. I'm going to mention someone else who's known him well because he's been your partner for many years. Mr Venizelos in 2001, during the constitutional revision, which was carried out by Mr Simitis's PASOK government, says something - and I put it in the Minutes - to defend the view that the House is also the House that defines the contents of the articles to be revised. So he answers a question, if I'm not mistaken, by Mr. Benos and he says: "I will give you an example to understand what I'm saying. Let's remember the '85-86 review. In 1985 the PASOK proposed a revision of the chapter on the President of the Republic in the direction of limiting and reducing its responsibilities. If PASOK were to lose the '85 elections and another House, by another majority, of the New Democracy, could we have a revision of the Constitution in the direction of increasing responsibilities? Of course not - and Mr Venizelos says - 'because the first House defined not only the need but also the direction of the revision'. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Mr. Mitsotakis, better collect your arguments. It is an issue that will obviously also concern us in the future, but at least do not try with irony like that of Mr Javarra to dismantle other points of view, especially when there are decisions by the Supreme Special Court and especially when prominent constitutionalists, such as your former partner, Mr Venizelos, have made this very point of view in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor for a minute, please. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Look, you will then have the privilege of having at least all this'material'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u210	We don't want that privilege!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u211	You do not want it, but you will have it because a'material' has come in too serious and you understand it. It is essentially the debate. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u212	Because the issue, Mr President, is absolutely crucial and what we are going to say is to be recorded in the Minutes, the view you have put forward, Mr Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u213	Respect the procedure, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u214	As long as Mr. Tsipras talks, I'll talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Gregory, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Mitsotakis, quit your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u217	Would you like them to be heard lately without having them in mind? It's not like that. Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u218	The view, Mr Tsipras, - you will know - which you have expressed is an extreme minority view in the constitutional circles. Dimitris Tsatsos, 1994, Constitutional Law: "This definition of the provisions under review binds the next Parliament which cannot add any new provisions. The second Parliament, the revision, but on the one hand it may not revise any of the provisions and, on the other hand, - take note, Mr Tsipras - give the revision content new and different from the proposed Parliament's decision." Give it to me, please, Mr. Tsipras. Minesis Archbishop: ‘Definition of the content of the new regulation does not fall within the competence of the latter. It will take place during the second stage of the review procedure by the next Parliament, which is, however, not bound.’ I repeat: ‘It is not bound by the acts in the original decision to carry out the revision of the Parliament...’. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To be quite clear, Mr Tsipras, if you are moving into the process that you have prescribed today, you are putting the constitutional reform into practice. In no case will the New Democracy, now or in the next House, since we are a majority, accept this interpretation because it is completely inconsistent with the constitutional order and the views expressed by all the leading constitutionalists. But I understand from your intentions that you move that way. But, in the end, you should know, Mr Tsipras, that is an issue that the next House will actually interpret. You won't be a majority, so the remit again will pass into our hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u219	It's solved. Please, Mrs. Gennimata has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u220	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u221	Please, Mr. Constantinople, don't put any ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u222	You bored the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u223	I say to you, 'no bad things of good'. In a process which is not right, such as the previous one, it is good that the whole Chamber and all the Heads have heard all the issues and can be put on the record, I repeat, in a time of comfort. At least there's that good. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u224	Listen, Mr President, when the House does not operate under the responsibility of its President and when the Rules of Procedure are squeezed, especially in such a debate on the Constitution, there is a very serious issue of democracy and you have a huge responsibility personally. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In here is the Greek Parliament, it is not the Central Committee of SYRIZA to ensure the speech to the President of your party. And, in any case, what is he afraid of sitting here listening to all the Heads and putting them at the end, respecting the Rules of Procedure, why is there no secondary? Who would have told him at the end not to get up and say all the opinions he had in relation to what he heard in here? You are tired of this effort that you are making to present two so-called gladiators and try to build this sik bipartisanism. It's not coming out of you. Take the decision at last. Do you have to dismantle this House, too? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Do you have to destroy what remains of the dignity and credibility of politicians and Parliament? It's embarrassing what's going on here today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is a shame that we cannot discuss, as is organized by the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Constitution, which is the top process of consensus and understanding. And the worst of all, than I understand from what I have heard so long, the review process started and ended today. It's all decided by the Prime Minister, he's come to conclusions, he's come up with what needs to be done. Why would you do the committee? Don't get tired! Don't hurt people! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You've got everything ready. Democratic processes,'spray, wipe, you're done'! Look, we in the Change Movement could be pleased today, because we have first opened the debate on the need for revision and, indeed, we have presented a comprehensive framework for how this should go, but we cannot all hide from our parliamentary group our deepest disappointment, because once again in this House institutions and procedures are entering the balance of party purposes. I'm really sorry. The government, for three years, has delayed the review process, and not just delayed it, enclosed it with a decorative dialogue committee, is now suspending the review, while its political circle is closing and joining the election directory. And only this cynicism, this approach reduces the constitutional review and offends the democratic feeling of the Greek people. When I sent all the political leaders a letter with our own proposals for a consensual revision of the government and Census were flying a kite. You see, then they had to be placed responsiblely and seriously, not like now in an hour to close everything. At that time the Prime Minister said: 'No, this important public consultation must continue', which has never actually happened. Mr. Mitsotakis, on his part, invoked the fact that the connections were not appropriate and probably Mercury was also a retrograde and could not start such a conversation. Today he plays consensual, conscientious, and remembered that he has always been in favour of the revision. Now, of course, with a look in the next House, he competes with SYRIZA in populism and participates in anti-parliamentary positions. We all agree in this Chamber that the Constitution is the charter, the supreme law, the framework of state organisation and the exercise of powers. However, it has a particular value, ladies and gentlemen, to be said by this Step and to record what is not the Constitution: So the Constitution is not a simple legal text. It's not an empty shell, it's not a dead symbol. It is not a field of idealisation and demonstration of ideological credentials, nor is it the subject of reformist fetishism. It does not engage in politics in the Constitution and it does not give rise to ideology. The Constitution does not replace the political and programmes of the parties, nor does it cure the inability of the rulings or prevent the plight of populist politicians. In short, the Constitution does not protect democracy from blurred minds and delusional ones nor can it be used as a tool of divisive practices. The Constitution is not, it must not be the cause of divisions, but it must be the point of convergence. As you can see, we've lost the good morning. It is under the responsibility of the government that this top democratic process is in danger of being degenerated, crushed in the mill of party feasibility and election confrontation, much more so because you have chosen to bring to Parliament the subject of the revision, which requires a climate of consensus and understanding, at a time when, on your own sole responsibility, you dominate a climate of toxic and poisonous. I said the day before yesterday that the panic of this government will lead it, in order to hit the democratic party, to smash even the memory of Eleftherios Venizelos. You're ruthless. Today you arrive at Costas Simitis, the Prime Minister of EMU, Helsinki, the man who incorporated Cyprus into the European Union, the Prime Minister of the great projects that changed the image of the country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Take it, finally, a decision. You're vain and everything you're doing will turn you into a boomerang. You turn political life into a mud arena in order to hit your political opponents, with all the consequences that this may have in public life. It is obvious what you are trying to do, Mr. Tsipras, and you are once again causing disappointment. You strongly want to use the Constitution for obvious party purposes and political diversion. You think you will lay the blame for the failure of your government to do so in the early shortcomings of constitutional regulations. For the inability and failure of your Government, however, the Constitution is not responsible but your wrong choices. You chose your ministers. You're the ones who run the government. It is your management inability, which has led things to this point in the country. You failed everything. You have failed in foreign policy, in economy, in education, in health, in the security issues of citizens, in the daily lives of Greek citizens. All you've achieved is to become the best servant of the establishment, the establishment. Having failed everything now what are you trying to do? You're trying to memorize the country's four years of regression. Now you tell the Greek people that allegedly the Constitution must be reviewed, so that the cycle of the old system can be permanently closed, implying that: "Yes, I did wet, I screwed up, but that's because I was prevented from being better off by the Constitution to show you how much better I could be." You are trying to tell the Greek people: "I failed but I ask for your understanding, because the Constitution and the old system prevented me". It's another dangerous experiment for dividing only. SYRIZA attempts to break the people again, using this time the text that should unite them in the Constitution itself. You are once again splitting with the sole aim of your party survival. You're talking about Chinese walls, while you're professionally splitting up. You don't care about the Constitution, but the management of your upcoming defeat. That's the point, that's why this whole scene has been set up here today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But listen, Mr. Tsipras, there is no ship for you, there is no way to go, and your story no longer has a wolf. Your thirst for power will find no more well to be thirsty, because you have deprived all hope and drained every creative settlement of the Greek people and you will collect his own contempt, the one you have shown him this entire time. You bet. You said, beforehand, that some believe that the Greek people are being lured, made mistakes and has no proper judgment. But you're the first person to do this, you're the first person to believe that. Because there was a result of the 2015 referendum saying no to your policies and you thought the Greek people were wrong and turned 'no' to 'yes'! And now you come here and talk to us like that? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Tsipras, Greece just doesn't trust you anymore. He won't listen to you. It is of course very interesting - I cannot say! - to listen to the austerity school master of Brussels speaking to us about the fight against neoliberalism. Before we admire your performance in this new sport, however, it is worth seeing what you have done so far in political life. What did you do to justice? I'm starting over there. How corrosive is intervention in the functioning of judicial and public prosecutors, perpetual conspiracy, hooded witnesses, methodical criminalisation of political life, his logic of shadows everywhere? Does the Greek citizen really feel that he can find his point? What have you done to public administration with the partyisation of the state, with a spoil administration, with the innate allergy you have to do with transparency and evaluation? Does the Greek citizen feel today that he is in a modern European state, where his case can be answered immediately? What were you doing in the state relations with the church? Another retreat of what you've been telling us for so many years. And where does your retreat lead? It leads to the state-owned emancipation of church administration. It opens the bottle of Halos, and the dangers ahead are too serious. They are opening up issues relating to democracy, Mr Tsipras. And you have an exclusive responsibility for these choices! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And, of course, you are condemning the insecurity of thousands of clergymen and their families. What did you do to self-government? With the counter-reform of "Klisthei" you have weakened the municipalities and condemned both municipalities and regions in government. And the worst is that this law will be hostage to all kinds of minorities. I am sure that at the moment they are already rubbing their hands and local interests and various fascoids. So leave the direct democracy scenes, because what we need to see here is what we can save from what you left standing up for Parliament. How do we give the people a real power of control? How will we strengthen transparency and accountability? It's not the Constitution's fault, obviously. One denial succeeds the other. From the theory of games and creative ambiguity we have reached the illusion, political surrealism and referendums. On the other hand, the crises, commitments, the committee is very well kept. The daily lives of citizens are becoming more and more difficult. The problems are growing and the deadlocks are here. The revision of the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, will not hide the problems under the carpet or, of course, it can solve them alone. The Constitution is a framework. He's not responsible for the dark pages of the nation. The New Democracy, in the face of the possibility of power, again suffers vertigo. He agrees with SYRIZA in the most dangerous and populist positions in the hypocritical relations of State - Church. We have heard today that they are changing again in relation to the election of the President of the Republic. I imagine we have two months to see how many more times New Democracy will change its mind on this very serious issue, which is about the President of the Republic and the dissolution of the House. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It's really impressive. how left populism is converging with the right-wing modernist populism. It's really impressive! In what is right and necessary for the country and must be done, they always disagree. They agree on other and always for the wrong reasons. It's unbelievable! So against this tactic of irresponsibility, we won't stay spectators. With our presence and our positions we will not allow Mr. Tsipras' election games or Mr. Mitsotakis' post-elections. Listen, in these difficult times with populism, xenophobia, extreme right to a new outburst, it is for us to defend democracy. International experience is always timely. From the bitter era of Baimar until today, the Constitution must be the foundation of the modern, open, liberal state, the retreat of citizens against all state arbitrariness. We will not, then, give Mr Mitsotakis a white cheque or anyone who has the illusion that he will impose his positions on the Constitution in the next House if Mr Tsipras, who thinks he can do what he wants and resolve all the issues from this House, allow us to do so. We might see that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, our democracy needs the oxygen of a substantial revision of the Constitution. At the heart of our proposal for the revised provisions is the strong citizen himself in a society that is just and plausible. The first area of change therefore concerns the defence and strengthening of the acquired rights and the introduction of new ones that result precisely from the modern problems, the needs and challenges of the new digital age. The right to decent living, social protection and safety in everyday life. The right to equal and uninterrupted access to public and social goods and to technological developments in the digital age. The right to equal opportunities, equality and equality. The right to substantial representation and active participation in common conditions of credibility, transparency and democracy. They are rights which strengthen their social function and the anthropocentric nature of the Constitution. The second area of change concerns the reorganisation of the state. Our Constitution must be complemented by provisions that strengthen institutions, independence and the separation of powers. Ensuring full separation of the powers and autonomy of the independent authorities, upgrading the prestige of representative institutions and the rule of law, emanating self-government in the context of decentralised governance and consequent reform in the public administration are key directions of our choices. The third area of change is the restoration of the credibility of the political system and representative institutions. Ensure transparency and control of the functioning of parties and policies, abolishing any privileged relationship of political power with the economy, justice, state mechanisms, constitutionalising rules that ensure political stability and exclude any game with institutions, safeguarding and strengthening the institutions of interparliamentary democracy are urgent and necessary changes to bring politics and morality back to its bottom. In order to meet these needs, therefore, we are putting forward concrete proposals in greater detail. With our proposals, firstly, we want to end the political instability which is one of the greatest diseases in our political system. We demand the full disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the term of office of the Parliament. We fully disagree with the populism of the presidential election directly from the people, which makes the supreme part of the party struggle a final part. It leads to minority presidents, alters the form of the population in a manner which is arbitrarily anti-parliamentary and puts an end to Parliament's being dismantled by an allegedly large national issue. Secondly, we move on to necessary areas in order to regain citizens' lost confidence in politics. We are proposing to change the arrangements for the criminal liability of the ministers so that the referral procedure in this House can be made more serious and, above all, that the exceptions that apply to all citizens should also apply to the ministers. Members of Parliament may not be covered by immunity for common criminal offences. They are protected only for the performance of their work. Thirdly, we express and reflect the new state balances with the measured and rational increase in the powers of the President of the Republic as a regulator of the country. Fourthly, we are upgrading the prestige of the institutions and ensuring that powers are fully distinguished. We involve all the state actors in choosing the leadership of justice, thereby strengthening the objectivity of their choice. We are changing and upgrading the staffing process of the independent authorities. We are proposing the constitutional prediction of accelerating justice, a huge issue that works helpfully to at last trigger growth at the place. Fifthly, we are making it easier for governments to cooperate, by extending the length of the exploratory mandates with reasonable time. Sixth, we are strengthening the social state. We condemn the practical protection of the dignity of citizens by establishing a guaranteed, decent standard of living. Seventhly, we support the world of work with the full guarantee of the right to free collective bargaining. Eighth, we are working for a strong Greece of knowledge and research. We are expressing the social demand for non-State universities, but with strict state certification, supervision and ongoing evaluation, along with a strong public university liberated from yesterday's claws. We can finally become the centre of higher education in Southeast Europe. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ninth, we boldly proceed to a powerful and manipulated local government with upgraded responsibilities, economic self-sufficiency and regulatory autonomy, a development role in the region and the entire social state with the relevant resources in the first degree of self-government. Tenthly, we propose measures for the effective control of parties' finances and electoral expenditure through the setting-up of the committee in question by a majority of senior judges and greater transparency with the compulsory suspension of the parties' finances in the 'DENMARK'. 11th, in order to ensure the long-term implementation of laws with a significant regulatory purpose and a broad parliamentary acceptance, we propose that they be amended within at least four years, requires an increased parliamentary majority. Twelfth, we remain in favour of distinguishing roles of the State - Church with courage and honesty and full transparency in the exploitation of church property. Our ideas for tomorrow's Constitution are harmonized in Greece's plan for development and social cohesion, a project with which we can safely leave the crisis behind. Ladies and gentlemen, the review is a tool for supplementing, improving and modernising provisions, which may have proved inadequate or overcome the reality itself. It's not offered for party games. The country's problem is not constitutional, it is primarily political. The Constitution didn't cause the crisis. Nor, of course, on its own can he get the country out of it. You have been trying diligently for all these years to cover the responsibilities of the Government of New Democracy from 2004 to 2009 and also yours, to extend the crisis and the new burdens that the Greek people have been called upon to pay. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The deficit of understanding on the big issues of the place and micro-groups of logic have been delaying and criticising the country's attempt to leave the crisis, with enormous responsibility for SYRIZA - ANEL. But, today, we have a great opportunity before us and it must not be lost. The Revision of the Constitution should go ahead. We have, of course, been informed that the President of Parliament has identified the completion of the committee's work on 15-12019. We consider it unacceptable that the Revision of the Constitution should proceed with fast track procedures. This is, of course, the superstitious proof that you are not interested in the Constitution and that you are using this debate simply for impressions. I would like to make another point. If you want to arrive and believe that you will arrive by the end of the four-year period, why don't you use all these months before so that it can be discussed as the Constitution should? Or not, Prime Minister? If the elections are finally close,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u225	Well, not that much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u226	...so tell them to smile and the lips of the Greek people, because that's what they're waiting for, to condemn you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u229	Prime Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u230	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u232	I would like the floor, Mr President, because I have been sitting in the Chamber listening to Mrs Gennamas and I think I owed it to her from the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u233	Okay, don't react to God like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u234	Well, do you mind if I just sit here and listen to you and answer you? Is that why you're uncomfortable? Okay. So I say that I have been listening to Mrs Gennimata, not only because, in fact, the debate in this House must take place with all the political parties - because there has also been a serious discomfort, because my dialogue with the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation has taken some time - but I also want to highlight a number of issues relating to her speech and the positions which she has already expressed, and her party, the Change Movement. You have chosen, Mrs Gennamas, a strategy - legitimate, in your view, you are doing it for your own benefit - of a one-sided political confrontation. You are criticising the SYRIZA and the government, which is over a few hours and the framework, if you like, of a personal criticism in the appropriate context of a civilised political dialogue. I would like to say that you are not simply making political criticisms, but you are also making very heavy statements to me personally and to other SYRIZA officials, who, as far as I know you, are inconsistent with your personal political culture. But I don't want to stay in this. I want to make political criticism. You have as a strategic goal - you say - the strategic defeat of SYRIZA and you do not understand that the strategic defeat of SYRIZA means the strategic victory of the New Democracy. Am I right, Mr. Mitsotakis? Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u235	You're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u236	Please, there's consultation. Everyone understands everything. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u237	I fear, therefore, Mrs Gennamata, that by insisting on this rhetoric, especially when you insist on strengthening it with severe characterisation, you are doing nothing but speeding up the strategic defeat of your resignation. I want to remind you of two things. Firstly, we are here because the Greek people wanted it. And he didn't want it once. You and Mr Mitsotakis are constantly referring to the 2015 referendum. You forget, however, willingly that in September 2015, we placed in the Greek people's crisis the difficult compromise we made with the institutions. And the Greek people once again gave us the mandate to meet in these benches. We did not make a coup, nor did we find ourselves in tricks in the position we are in. The Greek people gave us this mandate. Of course, what I cannot understand, Mrs Genuine, besides any ideological and political disagreements and controversy, is how it is possible to keep the finger on us when, in any case, you have some responsibility as a party. I am the last person to say that the responsibility for certain specific persons is a collective responsibility for your resignation. But it is not possible when the inspiring of Article 86 is your former President and your main executive, Mr Venizelos, to come here today to tell us and to shake the finger on the need to change Article 86, without you having the need to make an elementary self-criticism for Article 86. Both in the 2001 Review and in the 2006-2008 Review, you had with the New Democracy a seventy-seven MPs with the New Democracy. You have not made progress in the revision of Article 86! In fact, I read some interviews from Mr. Venizelos, who defends it as correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u238	..Article 86!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u239	You have Chief to answer me. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u240	Quiet, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u241	Don't underestimate her so much your Chief. You have a leader to answer. Most of all, what I cannot accept is that you do not really feel the need after all that has been demonstrated in recent years - and you even accuse us of being ruthless - of being ruthless! - when it has come out other than Tsochazopoulos and Giannis Papantoniou, where your rapporteur said a year and a half ago that there is no evidence to implicate him in this case, when the Mandeli case, the Tsukatos case, ask for an apology from the Greek people and the people who voted for you and voted for you. And no one says that you haven't done too much in this place as a party or that the Simitis did not work. But what I'm saying, Mrs. Gennamas, is that it's not possible for some to consider themselves and feel permanent owners of the country, and then - because as permanent owners you have beenhaved with the negotiators seventeen and you have not changed the Constitution and Article 86 - but also today. And, of course, you cannot believe that anyone who has the mandate of the Greek people to be in the position of executive power today - and who is not, of course, in your own party or the New Democracy party - is an occasional occupant of executive power, i.e. a lawyer in your own property. So I want to tell you too - but Mr Mitsotakis also listens to it - that the Greek people and no one else are in this place and that we are all occasional and you and we are all. The Greek people are owned. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I fear that if you carry on like this, it will be the Greek people who will give you a decision on permanent eviction from the political precinct.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u243	Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Tsipras, you said you stayed in the Chamber to listen to me, but it seems you didn't hear me. You stayed in the Chamber only because you wanted to say what you have prepared to repeat against our prolongation, the great democratic party that was born and there is to serve the Greek people. That's the target, that's the way. We want to open up a path of dignity, what you failed. And we'll do it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We're not fighting a war against you. You're a government and we're criticizing you. Obviously you didn't listen to me, because I'm able to deal with what the New Democracy says. We have drawn up an autonomous strategy and an autonomous course. It is not our fault if you have become the largest political sponsor of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u245	Everybody's working for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u246	It's not our fault if all you've achieved in these years that you're in power is trying to wash out the responsibilities of the New Democracy and work with the caramanic part of the New Democracy, which helps you operate in the way you operate. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So we have drawn up our own course and because you refer to all these unpleasant - indeed - incidents about the place, I remind you - because you have again lied - that all of them have been referred to justice by a majority of us. And I'm going to tell you this: We changed the law, we gave the justice, so that he could control all these cases today, with our own laws, all these investigations are done today, and we can't afford to be swamped, because when we voted, you were across the street! And now you're coming to do the honors? We were the ones who voted for the laws, we were the ones who pushed out of our party all those suspected of engaging, until it cleared what was going on. And I ask you: what have you done, Mr. Tsipras, when within your Ministerial Council the ministers were talking about dirty hands... [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] ...for funding by Mr. Saros of your Government for various purposes? You watched speechless. Why? Extortionist? By who? From your ministers? From your partners? Judging by whom you have disembarked from your government, we can draw safe conclusions. Who, then, intervened on what disgraceful, first and foremost, unprecedented, were heard within the Ministerial Council? Let me tell you. We work for the place. This anxiety you're making, "What's going to happen? Are we gonna lose? Will New Democracy win?" Do you know what it looks like? It shows you don't know what can be done the next day at the place. You don't have a plan, either you or the New Democracy, about what's going to happen at the place. And the agony you're pulling out and supposedly with your parrots you're trying to see "with who we're going, who we're leaving, who we're going to go to, who we're going to go to", shows that you have enormous insecurity, because you know that right now the Greek people are thinking about everything and it's resurrected. So to the Greek people, we have a proposal, the 'Greece' project, a plan for development and social cohesion, which can safely get the country out of the crisis. Our plan is to tell the Greek people and we ask for the strength to overthrow them. Because what the country needs today is progressive change, it is overthrowing and dignity, so that our children can return and not leave any more, Mr Tsipras! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And that is what we, the progressive party, will do. This is our historic role. We want, we know, and we can! You've been tested, failed. You're counted, weighed, and you're a little bit of what you've undertaken. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u248	Here you go, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u249	I am very sorry, because Mrs Gennamas in her dentistry, precisely confirmed everything I said before about the same strategy and the opposition strategy she holds. It is a strategy that, Mrs Gennamas, will lead you - I am sorry to say it - to your strategic defeat. But, of course, do not call on the term of the democratic progressive party and the term of great progressive and democratic change, because a great progressive change with Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy is not taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u251	Please, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor for a minute. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u252	Prime Minister, we have no cooperation with Mr Mitsotakis. You're working with the extreme right-wing formula. Look next to you. Do self-criticism and then come talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty students and students and three educational attendants from the Kassiopi Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u255	What do you want, Mr. Kammenos? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u256	Mrs. Gennamata referred to the Independent Greeks and to me, saying that Mr. Tsipras is cooperating with the extreme right-wing format. We're neither far-right nor bait. We are a movement that moves in the area of the democratic centre. We are people who came from New Democracy, with whom we cooperated before taking Vorides and Georgiadis and the extreme right with which we disagreed and can never coexist, as well as the patriotic PASOK who left the thieves and crooks, who are now filled with Korydallus. And Mrs Gennimatas, instead of saying that she was legislating against those who are in Korydallos today, would remind her that she was the one who, personally, urged her and her group, the chairman of the committee, to say that they were mobile phones. These are the prisoners' accomplices today in Korydallus and those who will be brought to justice. The frauds and thefts of PASOK will never be forgotten by the Greek people. Now justice arrives in Simitis' time. So we'll see how many miscarriages the bag lifts. It is you who represent those with the sectoral burglars of the Greek political scene and not us the extreme right-wing partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Loverdo, do you want to say something because Mrs. Gennamas is missing? Please have the floor and please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u259	I only need one minute, Mr President, not more. Because Mr Kammens has been present as a Member of Parliament and as Minister over the last few years, I would like to remind him of the fact that he knows it, but his rhetoric obliges me to do so. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] In 2010 or 2011, the pre-examination committee of the Parliament, Mr. Colleague, with the President-in-Office of your majority, Mr. Bolaris, is the one who referred Mr. Tsochhatzopoulos to the PASOK government. You don't deserve to remember, because you were here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u260	You were his lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u261	You're wrong. Let me finish. In 2004-2005, the Committees of Inquiry had not found a single relevant account. So those committees of all parties - both you and the New Democracy and the two Left parties - identified weaknesses, lack of elementary evidence. So there was no intention at all. However, when suspicions and evidence emerged, it became what Mrs Gennamas said and they were removed from our area, but also through institutional procedures, we allowed, helped, we gave all the evidence to the judiciary to function. Finally, as you well remember, all legislative initiatives - you were here - for the financial prosecutors, the prosecutors of corruption are our legislative choices. I do not remember whether you, as a Member of the New Democracy, voted for them. But it was in 2010 and 2011. That's what I wanted to say to have clean bills. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u262	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u263	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u264	I call on the Greek people to come to the Minutes, which we will post shortly on our sites, so that they can identify the personal signature of Loverdou - Gennamata - Venizelos for Mr Papantoniou, who, when the same accounts have been opened, the same accounts numbers, which came to the Committee of Inquiry, have themselves confirmed that they are telephone numbers. These same accounts are where the millions were found. Now the shovels begin, and if the shovels start, then we'll see what we'll find underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u265	The President of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Michael, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country's Prime Minister said earlier that both this Parliament and political life are the people and that the country is governed by the September 2015 elections. But he should know that we too are in this Chamber did not come by ourselves, the people sent us. And he should respect this people. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And I say this not by accident, because as it was known, it sent letters to all the leaders of the political parties and even to Mr George Papandreou, who is not in Parliament on the revision of the constitution, but did not send a letter to the Golden Dawn. Another demonstration of the famous constitutional arch and how it works! How constitutional, though, is this bow? We read in the Constitution of Greece, in Article 5(2): "All those who are in the Greek territory enjoy the absolute protection of their lives, their honor and their freedom, without distinction..." - without distinction, I repeat - "... ethnicity, race, language, religious or political beliefs". Does the Prime Minister keep the Constitution? Not because there is at the moment a party that voted for hundreds of thousands of Greeks, discrimination and not only by the Prime Minister, but also by all the political parties and that seems in this empty Chamber. You are the party of political parties and we are the only national opposition! We're Greece coming! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The reason for the Revision of the Constitution. Let us say a few words about the Constitution, first of all saying that it was the subject of a strong debate even in the years of the Revolution of 1821. How many know, really, that Theodore Colkotronis, the liberator of the nation, was against the introduction of a constitution and said that the Constitution is a fragment? Are you afraid of history? Is it bad to say these things? And we're coming out of this building on September 3, 1843. This building was Otto's palace at the time. And outside this building there was a square, which was then called Syntagma Square. That is where part of the people gathered - I will mention what that was - in order to force Otto to establish a Constitution. Constantine Paparigopoulos in the "History of the Greek Nation" clearly states and emphasises that this pressure was from the English Ambassador Lions and that the English ambassador himself was unbearablely pressing Otto and the Greek government with the irrational demands for repayment of interest on loans. Does that remind you of anything? Does it remind you of the memorials and the assignment of national sovereignty? How spontaneous, but also popular was the uprising of September 3, revealed by one of the protagonists of that day, who was imprisoned, by the son of Theodoros Kolokotronis, the brave Kolokotronis, who says that the thugs were released from prison and had come here to this square and shouted "Help the Constitution!" Those were a few words about the Constitution. And, of course, we also have the history of the Revolution of 1821, Fotiadis, who points out: "As long as Armersberg, the blind instrument of England, who was the most hated of the Babylonian ruler of Regentism, was almighty in our country, we saw Palmerston and Lyons be enthusiastic and find everything nice and well. But from the moment Armandsburg was persecuted, everything changed. Alongside our friends, the English remembered our political freedoms that Otto was trespassing." That's what Photiadis says in his book: "Othon - The Absolute" on page 288. More revealing the late Professor Panagiotis Kondylis in his book: "The Deviation of Urban Culture" writes: "The introduction of parliamentaryism in the country and on the basis of universal suffrage, there was not a necessary and insurmountable result of internal processes but, firstly, the Western powers' response to the disobedience of the Ottoman government on key foreign policy issues, such as support for the people, the great idea and the means through which the great powers imagined that they could henceforth exercise their influence more effectively". And that's what happened. This is history, which we must not be afraid of. But, above all, you, the SYRIZA government, you fear history, you fear it very much. Fear even the memory of Paul Melas and remove it from the school books. You should know that your plans won't pass. And since I referred to Paul Mella, I would say that, of course, in today's process, you are once again operating in communication, throwing the ball on the platform in common. You leave aside the national issues, the Prespecies Agreement, what has happened on the North continent - and not in South Albania - and you bring this issue, which is without content, because you will in no way get the eighty-eight votes and your revision will pass. After all, what you put on purpose in your review is such a thing - I will mention it later - so that this revision does not pass. But I now come to our views on the Constitution as it stands today. I come to a brief proposal for a revision made by the Golden Dawn. Article 4(1) states that the Greeks are equal before the law and in paragraph 6 it is clearly stated: ‘Every Greek who can carry weapons is obliged to contribute to the defence of the country in accordance with the definitions of the laws’. You have made a review - not you, SYRIZA, the previous parties - with an interpretative statement, to obey the principles of Europe, which says: 'The provision of paragraph 6 does not preclude the law from providing for the compulsory supply of other services within or outside the Armed Forces'. Alternative term than those who have a documented objection of conscience. How can you have a documented objection of conscience? What are you? Do you have psychometers and psychotics? The alternative term is clearly unconstitutional and if there is a national state - which will exist - all Greeks must be abolished and all Greeks must wear the honored uniform of the Greek soldier! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Article 5 speaks of discrimination, of discrimination which you are against the Golden Dawn. Article 27 - has not been mentioned by anyone - it reminds me of that famous statement from the President of Parliament to the then President of the Republic of Charles Papoulia that in the years to come, national sovereignty will be reduced, which we have seen become a reality. Article 27 of the Constitution. ‘No change in the boundaries of the territory may take place without a law adopted by an absolute majority of the total number of Members of Parliament’. I read it inversely, with the absolute majority of the total number of Members, what can be done? Change to the boundaries of the territory. No, gentlemen. It does not even have the right to grant a piece of Greek country, which is unfortunately provided for in the Constitution. Is that a constitution of a free state? Oh, no. Of course, in a Greek nationalist, in a Greek free, this article should not exist in the Constitution. It must be abolished. We come to Article 28, concerning the memorandum and the loan contract in force under English law. "Greece shall, by means of a law passed by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, restrict the exercise of its national sovereignty if it is dictated by a great national interest." What can be the great national interest in allowing national sovereignty to be granted? Is this a constitution of a free state or a protectorate? There is also an interpretative statement below, which says that Article 28 is a foundation for our country's participation in the European integration procedures. We're coming to the memorials. The Memorandums were not intended to complete the European process, and this is illegal. Very wisely Professor Cassimatis had said that all three hundred MPs voted for the memorandums, they should not have passed. Article unacceptable, which a Greek people's and nationalist will always be legally abolished. Don't consider that exaggeration. The day before I saw some polls from old 2005 reports where SYRIZA - the coalition then - received 3.4%. That was only ten years ago. Forty years it was at 3% -4%. So don't condemn the future of the Golden Dawn, because you don't know it, because both throughout Greece and in Europe, the nationalist movement is fading and coming. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I now come to SYRIZA's proposal for a revision of the constitution. I'll stand by a few articles. With regard to Article 3, it says: "We propose the recasting and modernisation of Article 3 in order to expressly guarantee the religious neutrality of the State, while maintaining for historical and pragmatic reasons the recognition of Orthodox religion as a prevailing religion". The original descendant of PASOK, SYRIZA, with neologies, is trying to baptize the fish. What does "neutralist" mean? Open all the dictionaries. The word “neutral religion” does not exist, you discovered it. On a proposal from us, therefore, it says that Article 3 coincides with a paragraph. The declaration is made that the Greek state is religiously neutral and followed by recognition of the Orthodox Church as a prevailing religion. No, this thing is not just a review. It is the abolition of this very essence of the establishment of the Greek state, which took place in the name of the Holy Trinity by the First National Assembly. You're not, Mr. Tsipras, Robespierre, and all of you St. Xist, Mara, the Dantons. You didn't do any revolution. Where are your guillotins? How will you change the essence of the Greek state? How do you think this is only about Parliament here? I continue with regard to Article 3. The article is supplemented by an interpretative statement stating that the term ‘mainstream religion’ is not a recognition of official state religion. What do you say, gentlemen? Are you all right? Isn't Orthodoxy official state religion? This is how the Greek state was founded, so it exists. And if you want to ask the people, a political investigation by an American company, "PEW RESEARCH CENTER", was recently published from 2015 to 2017, to fifty-six thousand people and was recently released on 29 October 2018. According to this survey, 92% of Greeks respond "yes" to the question "if there is a God". [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] Please give me time, too. That's the way it happened with the previous ones, Mr. Barremene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u267	Good. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u268	Also, the same survey shows that 76% of Greeks believe that true Greeks can only be Christians in religion. What are all these people? Racists, nationalists, chrysayites? So you work at the expense of the people. In the context of the reform referred to in Article 3, it is also laid down that the religious oath is effectively abolished. What happened, the sanctification that took place every time at the beginning of the House is abolished. On the contrary, the political oath is required. These are things that are in complete contrast with the will of the Greek people. A break is needed with a reference to two greats on the issue of the separation of Church and State, against which the Golden Dawn is vertically opposite: "Georgios Theotokas: This cosmopolitan, these warm spiritual waves, which are transmitted uninterruptedly throughout Greece by the Orthodox temples and byzantine sequences, are an element of the non-Greek life. That is why you cannot understand in Greece the separation of Church and State and you, the last fossils of Marxism in Europe, go to do this very thing, separate the Church from the State, Greece from Orthodoxy. But to all of you, general McGyannis answers, who wrote: “And now some of our rulers, Greeks, have come out, the seed of the Jewish, who have told us to erase the Holy Faith, orthodox, because Francia does not want us with such an orthodox dress. And I sat there crying for the new suffering. And I went back to my friends the Saints. I lit the candles and elephant, a good saint. And when I wiped my tears, I said to them, ‘Don't you see where they want to make Greece an old-fashioned? Help us, because they take us, the half-Greeks and the non-religious, whatever we have. We're fucked up. They want us. Don't let, my saints, these sold meats of tyrants masquerade and destroy the Greeks'." This is what General Makriyannis said, which is a great deal of courage, as is the Left. In Article 28, however, to which I referred before, SYRIZA makes the following proposal. "We propose..." says, "... the addition to Article 28(2), in order to establish that an international treaty or an agreement..." - see Memorandums or Loan Convention - "... which provides for a transfer of sovereign powers of the State is necessarily ratified by a referendum." Here is a glorious stage, what you propose to do, because a referendum, as we know, has not been held on the wonderful memorials that you have followed and made new ones. I come to Article 86 and to the great lie that you repeal Article 86. You are not abolishing Article 86 with your proposal. You say, in your introductory report, that we should not go to the other end, that is to say not to allow the criminalisation of political life and the transfer of political controversy to the courts. What do you only abolish? Remove the limitation period. In any case, Article 86 shall remain in full. I would like to end by saying this in a simple way. The SYRIZA proposal will not be accepted by the New Democracy nor will it receive the eighty-eight votes. It is also a given fact that the New Democracy proposal will not receive the eighty-eight votes. You dare agree to the repeal of Article 86. It's a stigma. People in cafes, cities and villages say politicians are liars and rely on this article. As for SYRIZA's proposal to simply abolish the limitation procedures, the time limits of the limitation, I have to say this: the Papantoniou and Tsohatzopoulos case has made more than ten years to go to justice, and if you change it so that immediately after their immunity has been lifted, justice will indeed be transparent. But you don't intend to do it. And that concerns you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you're government. And the law “no duty of Ministers” can turn against you. The billions of NGO euros for refugees and illegal immigrants are bore. And for the orgy of the waste that's happening. For Article 86 on February 1, 2017, from the Minutes of the House, I said in this Chamber: “But we have a famous law, which is not law, it is an article of the Constitution, Article 86, the law ‘no responsibility for Ministers’, which relieves ministers and Prime Ministers of their political responsibilities. Here I have proposed another time, and here I will come back: "Let us suspend articles of the Constitution in a state of siege. Yes, proportional to a siege situation is what happens, the moral siege situation. Wherever you go, in every corner of Greece, to every cafeteria, they say the politicians and the parties are thieves. From there, of course, we also had Mrs Gennamas talking about transparency in the parties' finances, when her party owes 200 million. Whatever everyone wants. After all, George Souris said it: "In Greece you exercise two things at large, assembled and urethed in any place you want", that is what I suggested, on February 1, 2017, and no one had answered. To conclude, I have to say that the exorcism about the far right that comes, for us it is the hope that comes, is the Europe of nationalists. And the extreme right-wing Salvini answered the European Union and Brussels. You left-wings were completely subjugated. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And as far as national issues - and with them I wish to close - there is no South Albania, there is Northern Epirus and Macedonia is one Greek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u269	The president of the JRC, Mr. Koutsubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, we want from this step forward to denounce today's procedure in the House that comes to demonstrate co-responsibility to play as best in this context as the two-party game is, and indeed, on issues regardless of the constitutional review debate. Unfortunately, with this contribution from the President of Parliament. You're getting a lot of catastrophe, gentlemen of the government. We warn about this situation. It has the first responsibility of the government party, it also has a huge responsibility for the Civic Opposition that accepts this unacceptable process. And, of course, this is not about adding the time that everyone is talking about, but because the same procedure, which is being interrupted unacceptably, because all of this, such as Mr Tsipras's replies to Mr Mitsotakis, the replies, the seconds, the tertiary words, the same thing, during the procedure, are interrupting the debate, while the Prime Minister could very well collect what Mr Mitsotakis says, what Mrs Gennamas says, what the JRC says, is doing to make his second language in response to one or two or three of them, so that the rest of the people who want to do the trilogy at the end, and, of course, to close the debate on the specific subject we are discussing. This procedure has not been followed. We consider it appropriate and agreed to some staff before. And of course there are various information that has been circulating since this morning, Mr President of the House, - Mr. Voutsis is not here, he is Mr. Bored -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u271	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u272	Are you here? You're listening. So here are various information released from this morning that there is such a feasibility to reach 19: 00 in the evening, which was supposed to close the process and have even spoken three and four times by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis, and shortly after Mrs. Gennimatas. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first moment the Communist Party of Greece has pointed out that this constitutional review serves two interrelated objectives: on the one hand it promotes the needs of today's rotten urban system in order to ensure its sovereignty. On the other hand, he serves party election purposes in order to stand - we say - this karsk bipolar fight between SYRIZA and New Democracy in particular, but also to show SYRIZA that something is going on from so many election declarations - which most of them stay in drawers - trying to gold the pill of his great downhill and - I repeat - a small sample of this was today's process, the debate - parody. After all, we all know that all these bipolar two-party games are part of the urban political system you serve in order to encroach - as long as you can - popular discontent and move to one pole, when on the other pole, in the name of the smallest evil, which, of course, is evolving into the same or greater evil. Gentlemen of the government, your first main objective is to ensure governmental stability, political continuity, as you say it, but it means not disturbing the implementation of anti-grassroots policy from the current political situation, such as the election of the President of the Republic or even the pressure that the people can exert at a certain time. In fact, at this point you are making another statement of repentance, one of the many things you have done over the years. Following the statements of repentance to the troika, to the American imperialism, to the German establishment, to Merkel and its companions - like the one we saw the day before yesterday at the SPD conference, the sinful German social democracy, the same one that murdered Rosa Luxemburg, which you mentioned today, Mr Tsipras - after all this, you have today made another statement of repentance on your attitude in 2014, during the presidential election, because you obviously consider it negative, at least on the basis of what you are proposing now, that the presidential election should not disrupt government political stability. Your second aim is to make, after the previous ones, an effort to relaunch this corrupt political system, namely a make-up, at a time when this rot is emerging and seems ever more, regardless of how much our people choose or if you want to believe in the overthrow of this system. And you, however, offer your help hand, so that this political system can win its lost credibility, as you say again. Your words. And because these objectives are obviously not progressive, they are barely carabine reactents, which is why you are confronted with these goals and with the other polo, the New Democracy. Because the New Democracy and other parties are also talking about this need, political continuity and stability are not disturbed. Of course, this is not the first time that reactionary targets have been surrounded by spurious slogans, with great proclamations, such as "democracy profile", "democracy deepening" appear to be progress, as a break with the very conservative and corrupt political system. Many times the most authoritarian, most anti-democratic, anti-popular measures, even the appalling imperialist war, dress up with slogans about human rights allegedly, about freedom, about peace and goes by saying. And you, you have proved manoeuvres in the game of words, distorting the concepts of progress and maintenance. Conservation, however, is to speak of the supranational centres that manipulate the people's will, but do not even touch the constitutional articles, such as Article 28, Article 80, which govern these so-called supranational centres and the supremeness, for example, of the European Union law against Greek law. Maintenance is to accept the presence of foreign military bases, troops on Greek soil and accept the respective articles of the Constitution that allow it. Conservation is typically acknowledging certain rights in the Constitution and undermining them in a thousand ways, such as the right to strike. Conservation is not to even touch necessary, overtime modernizations, forged elsewhere for centuries, in other countries, such as the complete separation of State - Church, and to pass them with semi-meters and even to add a new, entrepreneurial hug to the Church this time, such as the Church Response Fund, in which you incorporate and questionable lands to extract the Church's consent to the limited changes you propose. All this is maintenance. And above all, maintenance is the bourgeois Constitution itself, which safeguards the power and international alliances of the dominant exploitation class, which you have now undertaken not only to defend it, but also to make it constantly, so that it does not appear its deeply classic, anti-grassy and outdated character. And since you like history, we remind you that the Constitution in its original, typical form was the fruit of the urban revolutions, in most cases armed, with the blood of the people flowing river. It was a product of war retrospectives, during which capitalism and its political system were more progressive than feudalism, and the bourgeoisie was the upcoming revolutionary order then, compared with feudal rulers. But since the bourgeoisie took all power in its hands, establishing its dictatorship, it has finally lost whatever progressive role it played, became a order of oppression with a basic opposition to the working class, the popular strata, which are objectively closer to those of labour, such as self-employed, professional farmers, etc. The reference to the Urban Constitution in all our countries - and to our own - for the equality of citizens is false, because it is only formal, since it equates the holder of capital to the holder of the labour force, because it is not essentially and truly equal to the worker, the poor man, the bourgeoisie, the biopatient with the man who has the wealth in his own hands, which is owned by very large companies, in which he hires and is made redundant on the basis of his profitability, which he has in his hands, other mechanisms, therefore not only affects, but also manipulates the popular conscience, the free will, as you say, which is, of course, only free. The same call and formal is so-called popular sovereignty through the general electoral right, because there can be no such thing in the conditions of exploitation, in the dominations everywhere of reactionary, now historical urban ideology, through multi-according formal and informal mechanisms. The classic character of the Constitution also appears to be the fact that this character defines all the specific laws and the operating and action lines of the political system. A characteristic case is the many general articles in the Constitution which proclaim a number of rights, which are, of course, undermined in practice by clauses, with windows, with exceptions and, of course, with hundreds of anti-grass laws that you are voting on. In the Constitution, for example, the right to work is declared and unemployment is 20%, while three out of ten, that is, a 30% extra, works parttime. The Constitution declares the right to residence. How does this prevent this residence from being charged with unbearable taxes, such as HICPIA, or confiscated for debts to the banks, as do you with the bar of the auction bar that comes and even the revision of this limited Katseli law? The Constitution also declares the right to strike and at the same time imposes exceptions or adopts laws such as your own law, which hits this right in practice, so that nine out of ten strikes come out illegal and abusive. Why is all this happening? Because the supreme right recognised by the Constitution and your system as a whole is capitalist ownership in the means of production, the exploitation of human beings, that is to say, the roots of this bourgeois power. In the face of what is sometimes presented as a public interest, sometimes as a public security, all the others retreat. This kind of hypocritical, fake, will also have any rights proposed by SYRIZA to be recognised in the Constitution, when you yourself as government and other parties will in practice undermine them. Mr. Tsipras, for example, spoke of the article on collective agreements, while his Government passed a law providing that the minimum wage would be set by the Minister's decision and not by collective bargaining. Mr Tsipras even added that on the basis of this institution, the social partners will decide on wages, for example, as if there were no anti-corruption laws laying down everything. But the issue does not stop here. Only the term "social society" shows what party SYRIZA is and what his policy is. Many times, of course, because the Constitution usually comes back to adapting to the needs of the system and giving legality to what has already appeared, there have been cases where the Constitution was formally violated, it has been thrown into the ballot of the unusables to base a choice that had not yet been established in constitutional terms. I am referring, for example, to the case that the naval troops have been through Greek territory many times to fight against the single Yugoslavia, not even before Parliament's approval on the basis of the forecasts, but on many other occasions too. There are few times when the majority of the House adopted choices that were at the limits of constitutional legitimacy or even unlike articles of the Constitution. Even in thunderstorms like this the government majority with its vote erased any such or similar arbitraryness. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go a little bit to the individual proposals and the government and other parties. SYRIZA, based on experience from 2012 onwards, but based on European experience, seeks to shield the political system and with governments of cooperation as impenetrable as possible from popular indignation and claim, only to continue the same anti-population policy. It seeks to prevent possible trembling and cracks mainly from the prospect of rising class struggle that can create instability in this system. Such instability is, of course, legitimate and creative, and helps to open the way for changes and overthrows in the interests of many peoples. That is why at the heart of the reflection of all the other parties is the article on the election of the President of the Republic, so that it is not used to dismantle the government and Parliament. The SYRIZA does not only provide for the possibility of electing the President of the Republic by the people, but also regardless of the way in which it is elected, it provides for the institution to be strengthened by extending the powers of the Presidency of the Republic. In order to prevent early elections, it also proposes that the vote of distrust should not lead to a fall in the government, but operates in such a way as to enable the government to continue with the majority. The most impressive thing is that this also appears as an example of democracy. I mean, mercy! In fact, these are additional measures to shield the system, since there are already a number of articles aimed at suppressing, preventing in every way, so that the real majority, the people are able to put their mark on developments. It concerns, for example, Article 48 and the siege situation, an article that exists in the Greek Constitution since 1833 in a special form and is repeated in all urban constitutions since then. Of course, SYRIZA and other parties do not only meet in this regard in trying to resolve disputes between them so that government stability is not compromised. SYRIZA and other parties, with their various positions and positions, are also meeting in the efforts to rebuild any agitation of this political system, even of the urban Parliament, which you have devalued, you have already devalued it in the eyes of the Greek people, mainly because of your unpopular policies, the hundreds of Memorandum laws you have passed. It is a disgrace, of course, that has different starting points, with which you know very well in here, and the Greek people who listens to us, that we are vertically opposed. You all know in this Chamber that the JRC is the most consistent fighter of the various reactionary, far-right, fascist acts of retribution by the darkest forces. At the same time, however, we denounce that it is butter on the bread of such forces your premier and through the constitutional review that you appear moralized and exalted of this worn system. But you're playing this dangerous role, because your goal is another. In particular, you want to prevent any today's or tomorrow's - it does not matter when - cracks can bring about the stability of this rotten system the upcoming people's movement and, of course, the radicalization of consciences, which will pave the way forward, to the real and not a plattogram, like yours, progress. Along with this effort of course, all this disorientative and dangerous theory is that it was allegedly not the capitalist system itself, but the operation of the domestic political system, as if the crisis were only a Greek phenomenon. Of course, all these light bulbs, which have even been taken over by the resolution of the system, will have to look for other reasons and reasons when it strikes a new crisis, which is not only unlikely, but is already provided for by a number of serious economic studies and research staff. There is also the overtime demand for the abolition of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, because there cannot be a reasonable person today who does not ask for the ministers to be treated differently from the other ordinary people of our people if some of them, by the ministers, are charged with suspicion or an established offence. Of course, from what we see here you are resorting to half-measures, because it seems from what you have said, the final reason will again be for Parliament and the governmental majority with some minor changes. The position we have repeatedly formulated is that all obstacles should be removed, but all obstacles, so that the investigation or prosecution of this Minister, as in all cases of our other fellow citizens, can proceed. Like also, you are not making knives for the appointment of the leadership of the Supreme Courts by the respective government. Why should justice be appointed? To manipulate it more and better you yourself, the respective rulers? Other considerations are included in the same framework on Members' privileges, which you use misleadingly as a so-called anti-corruption tool. There is also a great deal of mockery at the expense of our people. Corruption rises within the capitalist market itself, competitiveness encloses in acquisitions, blackmails, theft of intellectual property, hatreds, photographic competitions, reaches the mob murders. It is no coincidence that in one state something can be considered legal and the same to another non-legislative. So in the urban system there is no uniform measure of morality and legality. Mr Tsipras, speaking to his parliamentary group, put a rhetoric question relating to Members' terms. This question is whether parliamentary status is a profession or an offer. Today's offer called it a function, like the offer, the work of the MP is something that is self-evident and does not relate to content, whether it passes laws that break down wages, which break down pensions, if it gives its consent to new military bases in our country, if it agrees with the installation of nuclear, for example, if it agrees to imperialist interventions, at war tomorrow. Then the Nazis, the fascist MPs, on the basis of the prestige, should be taken from their point of view for their own offer, for their own nazi function. As regards the immunity of MPs, there is already the experience that the JRC has experienced on its back with the condemnation, for example, of our MEP Sotiris Zarianopoulos in Thessaloniki, for he called the Nazis the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn. It is clear to us that the lifting of immunity must not be used or used to prosecute the Member's political action. In this context, SYRIZA also baptises the referendums, which suggests, direct democracy, as participatory democracy, although it has not yet dried ink nor is it far away from us in the summer of 2015, when he used the referendum to deliberately make the wrong eyes on how popular referendums become a weapon of sovereign politics as a rule and how the "no" become "yes" overnight. This doesn't think it's only in Greece. It is also about other countries, such as France, Ireland, where we lived there - referendums that were not pleasurable, were overturned by extortion and pressure. It doesn't make us any more impressed. Besides, we know that Mr. Tsipras has very good teachers. From there on, of course, there is no shortage of the various conflicts between the parties to maintain - as we have said - this polluter-policy bipolar fight, to hide their convergence on major, critical issues, but also on the issues of constitutional reform. Each party and SYRIZA in a different way take into account the burden, for example, of historical traditions or the great fascination of certain urban modernisations, which do not affect the interests of the system. To see some of these: The New Democracy, for example, fears the overtime of the separation of the State from the Church. But SYRIZA is afraid of him, too, bringing a medium-sized, hypocritical article about distinct roles, as he says. The separation, however, of the Church from the State is really mature and has nothing to do with religious faith, with religious beliefs - on the contrary - nor does it affect the people's clergy, priests for the uninterrupted performance of ceremonial processes, their religious duties, with decent wages, with working rights and with a number of such issues, particularly to live their families. The opposite is now the case with the proposal of SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Also, New Democracy, and other parties, are clearer in place for private HEIs, higher education institutions, while SYRIZA appears to be resisting. At the same time, however, on the basis of the general guidelines of the European Union, with the measures of the Ministry of Education, through the laws of the market, private education has spread, gypsy, while universities operate as private market institutions in practice. So it also keeps an article - by doing, of course, other - just to cross this false separation on the one hand of the 'progress' that SYRIZA is supposed to be, and on the other hand, the 'conservation', which is the New Democracy, etc. Furthermore, SYRIZA seems to select a more proportional than the current electoral system - and not the genuinely simple analogue - with a general wording, which can be altered accordingly and on occasion. You are retreating, even in what you voted two years ago. You say that 10% of seats, thirty seats, i.e., may not be distributed proportionally, but obviously bonuses are given to the first party. Another majestic asshole! The new Republic supports, in principle, the existing electoral system. SYRIZA estimates that self-powered governments are over. And the New Democracy considers that there is some hope yet for such a self-powered government. Also, SYRIZA wants to better align certain articles on energy, water, the independent authorities with the capitalist restructurings in the Greek economy. But behind public control on the networks is not the anti-neoliberal agenda - as you say - but the intention to move forward more quickly in these areas, with the public playing the role of the wheelchairman of business interests. Such differences of course exist among you, however, do not overturn your great strategic identity, which is more today than the Greek people are seeing yesterday and which we are not at some point excluded from leading to this great coalition, as was done before with the New Democracy and the PASOK. After all, your hugging with the sinner, we say again, German social democracy, which has a great deal of experience in such co-operations, in such large blocs, that is what it shows. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC on the basis of its positions will take part in the constitutional review process. After all, since the 1975 Constitution and the subsequent revisions, we have always drawn our attention to the abolition of either the positive amendment of articles concerning, for example, trade union or other freedoms, the abolition of anti-democratic articles, etc., or we have raised issues which the government proposal did not anticipate, such as, for example, the reclaiming of simple analogous, earlier, you will remember, the introduction as an official language, municipality, the complete separation of the State from the Church over time, etc. That is what we will do and now by proposing concrete changes to a number of articles. I quote today: Article 48 on siege situation, targeting the so-called internal enemy, namely the folk movement, under specific conditions, such as a military engagement that is not excluded.... I see some gentlemen and ladies who are fooling around here, but they're gonna live on their feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u273	Thirty-five minutes you've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u274	This article suspends a number of rights, such as the strike, the association, freedom of the press. It gives the possibility even of setting up special courts. Articles 28 and 80, also concerning the assignment of powers to transnational imperialist alliances and interpret the Constitution in the light of and the sect of European Union law. Article 27 concerning the presence of foreign military forces and bases in Greece. Article 107 concerning the protection of foreign and armaments capital in Greece. The extension of the right to strike in another article and so on. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It makes sense to take advantage of any laws which reduce legal obstacles to trade and political action without, of course, overlooking that freedom of action is limited to and abolished by the exercise of employers' violence, by the forces of repression and others in this regard. Of course we know very well and the narrow limits of this democracy, of urban democracy, of our people, of the working people's movement, of its interests and of its diversity in some other cases. Urban democracy, as all our history and all humanity have shown, and parliamentaryism and temporary lifting or limiting parliamentaryism and its fascist branch have shown. As we also know, the labour, the people's movement, can and should, by its action, make all anti-grass laws inactive. The urban state is not moralised, it is not progressive, nor is it neutrally classed. So is his Constitution. The urban state and its Constitution are changing radically, radically, radically in a progressive, popular direction with mass labour consciousness as the people pass in the society of real equality, which eliminates not only the class exploitation but, in its course, abolishes all forms of opposition that inherited capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u275	Thank you to the chairman of the KKE Parliamentary Group, Dimitris Koutsoubas. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos is next. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be particularly interesting if the parliamentary authors had taken a picture of the Greek Parliament discussing the constitutional revision today. This is a sad picture with three Vice-Presidents present and ten Government MPs with the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u277	Please, ladies and gentlemen, if you have any kindness, be quiet in the Chamber. Mr President, please give me a minute to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u278	We'll wait for Mrs. Canelle to finish the revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u279	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u280	So the image of the Greek Parliament is precisely the result of the memorial policy. It is precisely the disgrace to which the Greek people have put institutions and that is why I believe it is important to discuss institutional changes. Mr President, the Bureau is also responsible for the fact that I, for twenty-five years in this House, have never seen the Rules of Procedure in at least 100% of the year by violating the Rules of Procedure on a number of speakers, which actually brings this result to the end, which honours none of us, nor me as a speaker, nor as a Member of Parliament, but I believe neither as a Greek Parliament. When the Greek people see that here we are discussing the constitutional review and ten MPs are present, then we ourselves are to blame for the image we present outwards. And, of course, in the memorial era Greece gradually regains its economic freedom. However, the project is the return of moral values to the top of our society's worthy pyramid, because until now the theft of public money, the overestimates of public works, medicines, the exclusion of ordinary people and businesses from bank lending for the benefit of privileged power interlocutors and, in particular, the power parties that handled in the memorandum period before this government, the ending of two and a half million people from the public health and insurance system have had a clear pretext, the difficult moral deception. The achievement, we believe, of an objective is necessary through the redefinition of the fundamental rights of our fellow people, as well as the crucial institution of the state and, ultimately, society, with a sign of moral and anthropocentric nature, so that protection and armour can become more resilient even in exceptional circumstances, such as those we have experienced in the Memorandum era. These institutional changes cannot be replaced by communication fireworks. We have reached a point where the relocations of MPs exceed the three parties, people who move across the entire range of the Greek Parliament. Yesterday, the New Democracy celebrated because the so-called "Vougala" were in the ranks of the New Democracy, where it was announced that they would be co-applicant with Mr Panitso who would replace Mr Marcoyannakis who is withdrawn as a result of an old age, although he is many years superior to Mr Panutsos. With such tactics we are not going to convince the Greek people and not even restore faith in parliamentaryism. In this sense some fundamental human rights need deeper and more specific content. Significant institutions need to be redefined, best suited to the human needs and needs of the country, and in some cases the public interest must be defined so that its protection can ensure the continuity of the Greek state and nation with clear human-centered directions. In the context of these guidelines and principles, the Independent Greeks consider that the process of constitutional revision should provide appropriately for the revision of the constitutional provisions relating first of all to the President of the Republic. The Revision of the Constitution in 1986 abolished the articles on the responsibilities of the President of the Republic and the city became pre-central, and the role of Parliament and the Government was strengthened by this amendment. The election of the President of the Republic, however, has made it possible for Parliament to be dismantled and for the normal parliamentary term to be disrupted, thereby altering both the role of the Prime Minister and the role of the President of the Republic. The proposal of the Independent Greeks is the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, strengthening its democratic legitimacy. I would like to remind you that this proposal is also a proposal from the former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, at the conference in New Democracy. I am particularly surprised today by the report by Mr Mitsotakis, who has spoken out of the proposal by the former Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u281	He's with Shetti now, he's gone somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u282	You're right, Mr. Nicholas. We believe that the citizen proposed either by a parliamentary party in the House or by at least 100 000 elected. And because the President of the Republic, through the direct expression of popular sovereignty, has more direct democratic legitimacy, we propose three areas, without changing the form of the culture to a President-in-Office. The first is for the President of the Republic to be able to refer back a law passed by the House once at each Session, which must be passed by 3/5 of the House. This responsibility existed, but it was never exercised, for only after the referral of the law, with fifty - one MPs, was enough. The second incision is that the President of the Republic may propose a referendum on a critical national issue and that his proposal should be approved by a hundred and fifty Members. We also predict that the President of the Republic will call for referendums proposed by the people, in particular at the request of a million voters for a voted bill, five hundred thousand voters on a critical national issue and 100 000 electors on a serious social issue in the country, thus proving our democratic sensitivity and commitment to the principles of popular sovereignty, which is the main asset of our democracy. Thirdly, we are establishing the right of the President of the Republic, even without the Prime Minister's assent, in exceptional circumstances, to proceed to disputes with the Greek people. This balance achieved by our proposals can substantially strengthen Parliamentary policy itself. The Independent Greeks from this Step, but also myself, as an independent MEP and as a Member since 1993, have insisted on changing Article 86 on the criminal liability of the ministers. Everyone recognises that Article 86, which provides and regulates the performance of criminal liability to the ministers, is the pitches of impunity and covertness. However, no one has dared to change it from the political shapes of interlocutory and corruption, which have introduced the provision in its current form. Now they have started to frustrate the need to discuss this article, now that the smell of scandals is almost drowning the whole political system of the past and of post-multiple. Here I would like to remind you that for the majority of the revelations of civil lawlessness, which must be dealt with by Greek justice, I had warned, during my many years as a Member and as the competent department of anti-population, but also as Minister, that I was justified when I said that the non-deleting of the crimes of Tsohatzopoulos and Papantoniou on money laundering was not possible. Eventually, justice came and justed my positions. It was with my own intervention that the manner in which the violations of the Tsohatzopoulos and Papantoniou crimes were cancelled. And at that time, I was under fire from the system of corruption and the covertness of the information pimps, who - not to be foolish - were not just partners of corrupt ones, but in some cases direct associates. It is not only the ministers who have enriched themselves, ladies and gentlemen. Some who were next to them, journalists, who didn't come out anywhere, travel with huge properties, have villas all over Greece and abroad, accounts in Switzerland, thirty-foot recreation boats. You call them names and the Authority doesn't even dare do anything about money laundering to do an investigation. I have not been called by a prosecutor, when I say this from the Step of the House, to ask me "Mr. Cammene, to whom are you referring?" The reporter's'subjects', when one asks for a copy of Parliamentary control, is not given, while politicians - well done - are given to everyone. Aren't there any journalists and other assistants who created the gangs of Postmultition? Now, they've also been publishers recently. Is it not our democracy's obligation to consider the political and criminal responsibilities of political people, those who operate forty-five of the politicians themselves, to control them? So, today, the Independent Greeks, officially loyal to our principles, are proposing the abolition of the unacceptable parliamentary benches for crimes, which are brought to bear by the Ministers and the State Secretarys for the occasion of their duties and taking advantage of their office, such as corruption, tax evasion, hatred and black money, and their revenge on regular justice, in accordance with the common provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as is the case for all citizens. I hope, in fact, that there was a legal way. I believe that we should do that, ladies and gentlemen. We're the ones who write the laws of the state. By a large majority we can propose the retroactive force of abolishing the law on the responsibility of Ministers for twenty years and that all the files be opened and that the Greek people learn the truth. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] We can also propose, of course, that the limitations of the limitations of ministerial infraction, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, be matched to the corresponding limits of the Greek Code of Conduct, in order to stop the miserable theatre from seeing former ministers claim that the offences they committed a few months ago have been dropped. In the revision of the Constitution, there is a free expression of the Members. The red line, however, is the abolition of the shameful article on the vote that the Independent Greeks raise only for this matter of party discipline. On the issues of the Church, for which there is a great deal of dialogue, I have heard Mr Mitsotakis denounce - it says - the Prime Minister's agreement with the Archbishop. The same political leader a few days ago, when the deal took place, said he was unable to do it himself in 2013. So what happened? Did he go today to take the votes of some priests who protested to him and discovered that last week's proposal was his 2013 proposal and did he not get to do it? Such micro-policies despise the country's political life. We, ladies and gentlemen, as Independent Greeks, are bound by our statute. We say that whatever agreement is reached by the hierarchy of the Church, we agree with this agreement and vote. We are not the ones who are currently going to have a micropolitic with the priests or a daraver with the metropolitans. We believe in the indiscriminate bond of Orthodoxy to Hellenism. However, we also believe that the Church should also be able to use tools, which will be given to it, by exploiting property, to cover the costs which it has, especially for the payment of its staff. As far as education is concerned, we cannot be back in the establishment of universities, which are private, but will be under strict control of the state. Our position is to establish private universities only non-profit-making and, of course, under the control of the state. When private universities are provided for in all the countries of Europe, when thousands of Greek birds go abroad to study with the laxity of their families, we believe and suggest that private universities of a non-profit character, such as some of the world's leading universities, should be founded. But we also propose that 15% to 20% of these universities' posts be given free of charge to economically weaker citizens as a reward for their authorisation. In other words, it must be made compulsory for every private university of non-profit to give 15% to 20% of the posts in children, who are without the opportunity to study. The Independent Greeks are the movement, which believes in the free economy, but with a clear social mark of responsibility. You have joined unreserved liberalism, plundering the banks of the popular extreme right, which you are now extending to hybrid journalism, the extreme right, which invokes patriotism, at the same time as robbing with neoliberals public wealth. It is the definition of patriocardialism in both education and the economy. Because education cannot and must not be a commodity. With the election of the homosexuals, we believe in the representation of the family and propose six to fifteen from the MPs of the State to come from the family. But the homosexuals who participate in the House will vote as homosexuals and vote for national votes will not be counted. They'll be heard. We propose a single ballot so that we can leave the Greeks out of party division. We invite them to participate in the things of the country and I wish they could also have a vote in the House, but without at this time, giving a vote to the relatives and representing the great Greece, which is abroad, to involve the people of the country's internal policies. We propose the single ballot to leave the Greeks of the diaspora away from party division. The Greeks of the diaspora are and should continue to be a fist at the side of Hellenism. For us, the Independent Greeks, finally, it is a very serious issue. She's a match to our own national survival. For this reason, we are proposing the upgrading of three-tier families to multi-tiers, but maintaining the principle of proportionality. Other privileges will be given by the third family, as multitude and other family with five, six or ten children. Childbirth must be supported, rewarded and not punished. Children are not a living presumption. It's the same national survival. As far as the environment is concerned, we are proposing the integration of water and critical energy stocks into public and non-trading goods. The wealth of the country cannot be assigned, exploited in the absence of the state and society. Protection of the environment is a leading act of patriotism and bound to the principles and values of the nation. For each tree inactivated for the purposes of the public interest, it is necessary to implant two trees in the same area. The arbitrary exploitation and immunity on the environment, on the wonderful Greek one, must be brought to an end. We've paid her dearly. We do not have the right to charge the next generations of Greeks with the mistakes that we caused or received. But of course, the system of this dictatorship must be changed by some alien forest masters who make personal policy with forests. Media should be treated with credit cards, like all companies. Furthermore, they should make their property status public so that every Greek knows who owns the media in the central news releases, not at 4 o'clock at dawn in a second fraction tab. The struggle we have had for decades ago in order to eliminate the morbid phenomena of key shareholders, who have changed democracy itself, should be justified. The political scene, each Greek politician, should neither be blackmailed nor traded with publishing interests and groups in order to ensure that it is re-elected. And transparency is the only way to restructure our democracy. I would like to tell you at this point that laws must also be in place to control media funding. I observed the funding from the banks in the first half of 2018, which is not controlled by the government. The same means, which were closed and fired by journalists and threw them on the street, the same instruments were taken, without any guarantee of money from the banks as lending. They are the same instruments which, through the banks, are attacking the government or trying to control opposition politicians. As far as businesses are concerned, the Independent Greeks are truly eminent of the free economy with a clear social profile. We don't criminalize the profit. On the contrary, we encourage it. We are, however, against immunity, speculation, exploitation, the antisocial action of any business model. We therefore propose that taxes and contributions of all kinds cannot exceed 50% of the taxable income of every natural and legal person, a rule, in force in most European countries. The European Court of Human Rights also accepts it. We cannot allow the State to become a partner in individual or corporate income. The State must act as a regulator and ensure legality and social responsibility. Finally, with regard to justice, ladies and gentlemen, justice is a separate principle of power. And we have an obligation under laws, and with the Constitution itself, to strengthen justice and to relieve it of gangs which, unfortunately, continue to act. We believe, therefore, that the only solution is to confiscate democracy. The Independent Greeks have it in our beginnings. We propose that the leadership of justice be elected by all the judges of each sector and then taken a draw between the three or five of them. So we give the judges the opportunity to choose the ones who know they are the most honest and those who can lead justice and, in parallel with the congress democracy, we also give the opportunity to be elected, who would not have been chosen as the first choice by the judges. In order to protect citizens' undivided access to justice, we propose that the cost of the offender cannot exceed 20% of the minimum wage and that for tax differences 10% of the object of the dispute. We see unreasonable fines in the range of hundreds of thousands of euros, which, in order to go to the court, one is obliged to deposit half of them. He doesn't have them. So does this man not have the right to have access to justice? And in Venizelos - Samaras with certain people in the CEFOP personal persecutions were carried out at the command of the rulers. And these cases collapsed. Many of them were not even able to go to court. We believe that for the promotion of judges there must therefore be social control. That is why we are proposing the expression of the opinion of the lawyers, who are also the contributors to justice. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should discuss several hours of constitutional change. We should not give this image, which we are giving today to the Greek Parliament and to the committees to be ready to discuss with the Greek people, so that this Constitutional Review can truly shield democracy and restore moral values. Finally, I would ask Mr Mitsotakis, as Chief of Staff of the Opposition, not to bring back issues which have expired. He talked about Saudi Arabia. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, after the investigation of the case, the person who is certainly responsible is a member of the New Democracy and a member of the Diplomatic Corps, who went to the ground with personal telegrams to serve the case in the air. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis, let's discuss this case. But I will tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, that when you attack me, you will have to wait another answer. I therefore invite you, by noon tomorrow, to announce what Decision 2674/2018 of the Athens Multimember Court of First Instance with the New Democracy and a defendant bank and what circuits has been mobilised in order not to make the confiscation provided for in this Decision. If by noon tomorrow at 12 noon, Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't announce it, we'll announce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u283	Thank you to the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Pano Kammenos. We shall proceed with the President of the Parliamentary Group from Potami, Stavros Theodorakis. Here, Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by making a reference to the universities. I think you'll understand why. I choose some of the titles: “Aggression of hoodiers in “Pandey” to students - members of the Pan-sexual and CNN”. "Protest by the professors of Thessaloniki, who speak of the defenseless university-sponsored raid of gangs and drug dealers." "Day-day episodes in Patisia is supposed to be in the name of asylum, protecting smugglers and traffickers only eventually." And finally, just last Thursday if I'm not mistaken, robbery, and beating against a professor at the unsub. Note his words, because they have some value: “Nobody reacted to the attack. No one called “100” because they fear their lives. “Holy the free movement of robbers and drug dealers!” the professor announced in his post at a rare manifestation of sarcasm for beaten and robbed”. You'll tell me what they can do with the revision of the constitution. According to the Prime Minister, they do. Mr. Tsipras told ALPHA today that he was here in the House. He said that some want to defamate public universities, because they aim to create private universities, to which only the rich students will have access. Do you want these minds to talk seriously about the constitutional review? You say, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, that we should not change and continue living in hypocrisy, with thousands of children study abroad - among them obviously they are your own children - but in Greece they have no choice. But notice the worst part is - why do you not illuminate the whole picture - that the Ministry of Trade continues to give permission to private centres in the annexes of some foreign universities. They operate with the permission of the Ministry of Trade and not with the permission of the Ministry of Education as they should. Whee, you! Since the church days are up to date these days. Mr. Tsipras told us something that surprised us that the budget must be shared between public and non-state universities. In Spain he said that state subsidies should be shared in public and non-State. Take note of why a little reading does good: in Spain and Germany, it is expressly forbidden to strengthen non-state universities, in France, it is not even foreseen. Enter the 'Evridiki' network, in the official European Union network for all of this, and you will find the whole list, all the information. I would suggest that, if we are going to have a serious conversation about these things, you can move away from the fast news that they are trying to fill with new monsters, which are, of course, too old, because saying today, in 2018, that private, non-state universities are for the rich children, I think you have lost your contact with reality. And it is so great that your idealist blindness, which, not to talk about non-State universities, is so great, notice what you are doing: you are excluded from the debate in paragraph 2 of Article 16, which stipulates that the main task of the state is the development of religious conscience. It is the paragraph that is the wording, which is essentially interpreted as imposing categorisation on the Greek schools. We're not going to change that, are we? And then how do we talk about religious neutrality, ladies and gentlemen? We will also insist on the revision of Article 16 for economic, social, cultural and educational reasons. We want non-state and non-profit universities. The answer has been given. Non-profit universities. These are the universities we want. At the same time, of course, we want to guarantee the right of Greeks to vote abroad. It's about the same people many times. And we have pushed them abroad and are not giving them the right to vote today. We therefore propose to the Constitution that it be clearly stated that it is not the power of the government to vote or if the Greeks who live outside will not vote. And because we are making an effort - and I will say out of ignorance - to bring the issue up as a complex, dashing one, we propose something very simple and concrete. In the next election, we have the following simple wording: 'All those on the electoral lists can vote'. Electronics? Electronics. Writing? Writings. For the other categories, for the people who have a Greek origin, but are not on the electoral lists, we will continue to talk about it, because there we will actually find many different answers and one response to the other. However, the five hundred thousand Greeks who left the crisis should not be cut off from the country. They have to vote. It is their constitutional right and it will be a crime to deprive them of it. But let me return to the great picture of the revision of the constitution that we are discussing. The place needs a new constitution - we all agree - without anachronistic provisions, we add without populism. We are not - you know - the only country that is currently discussing a new constitution. Many countries are talking about it. And McCron announced his intention to review the Constitution and the process will begin in January. What are they talking about in France? Let me refer, because I have just returned from an interesting political journey, with many meetings. So what are they talking about? They are discussing only three successive terms of office of MPs and mayors, abolishing - look - a special court, which had for the crimes of the ministers and ordering them directly from the Court of Appeal in Paris, speeding up the legislative procedure - and banning the introduction of unrelated amendments to the laws by means of a provision in the Constitution. Also, strengthening the independence of the Public Prosecutor, vis-à-vis the executive authority, and of course, the prosecutors will be chosen and promoted by the Supreme Judicial Council alone. We must therefore eliminate the scandalous impunity of politicians, strengthen the total separation of powers, put an end to the elected, twelve consecutive years as well. If anyone wants to keep going, they'll have to take a break. In addition, we must ensure political stability, safeguard the state's liberal European character, free the economy from the buckles of detention and the state from the pan-state of the parties, shield individual rights and harmonise - take care - of obligations and rights with the digital age. Small Estonia guaranteed in 2000, eighteen years ago, in its Constitution, as an inviolable individual right, access to the Internet. It was the beginning of Estonia's economic miracle, which we probably all know. We shall now proceed to our proposal for the President of the Republic. Our proposal is a reasoned increase in its responsibilities. To have the opportunity to convene on his initiative the Council of Political Heads, which has to become an institution, to be able to designate the Presidents of the independent authorities, from a list proposed by the House, but the President decides to choose the lead of justice - take note of a major change in relation to most of the proposals - from the lists that will be drawn up by the House, not by the Ministerial Council, but by the plenary sessions of the Supreme Courts. This is the way to all modern constitutions. Of course, we agree. They have heard with pleasure that the dismantling of this House must be disconnected from the presidential choice. However, we also have the proposal on how this can be done, because I find it awkward how we can do it. "Would we be bored?" This is a concrete proposal, formulated by a sketch artist, sacrificing the embarrassment that exists if the votes are not successful. We therefore propose the following: If even the third vote on the election of the President of the Republic proves to be fruitless, then the President's term of office should be extended until the required majority is achieved. It's happening in Italy. It's working. It should happen here too. In votes, of course, there is the possibility of changing a candidate if there is a more consensual person. You don't want this? We have an alternative proposal too. The river has two banks, so in many things we have an alternative proposal. Although the two votes are not elected President - it is the proposal of the Professor, Mr Alivizatos - then the election will be by an enlarged electorate, with the participation of both MEPs and regional and mayors of the major cities. However, the country must acquire stable electoral cycles, not constantly in an election climate, which causes suffocation in the economy and society. Your proposal for a mere isotope analogue, I fear, will open up new integrity cycles. We, as you know, are not even with the dissolved simple analogue, but we are neither with the over-advanced one that we have today, with the fifty seats in the first party. We believe in an analogue bonus. I will tell you how much: for the first party a seat for every 1% more than 25%. So, you called 35%? Are you a first party? Obviously. Then you'll get thirty-five more seats. We say another thirty-five. Of course, we also believe in double voting in the case of electoral law. So, what does that mean? We are voting on the local congressman, regardless of the party. Perhaps someone - because we have very well in the whole of Greece, we have considered this - in his region voting for a local MP from Potami and on the other, the regional list, to vote for his party. She's the one who makes up the party. It's a conversion of the German system. The details, of course, are not present. It's the electoral law that we may at some point be serious about. We agree with the proposal, which is in place for constructive vote of distrust, that the House cannot take down the government, if at the same time it is not in a position to raise new ones, as the six-mile group has proposed very early in the innovative Constitution. Manos, Alivizatos, Gerapitris, Ktistakis, Vorlomi and Spyropoulos have made a very interesting proposal several times ago. We propose, however, that the Prime Minister, who calls for premature recourse to the polls to deal with - that is what we always say - a national issue of great importance, should have the approval of the three fifths of this House. That is the only way to complete the electoral cycles provided for in the Constitution. On the subject of the criminal liability of the ministers, I think we are all in the same position. It's no secret. We want the special limitation provisions to be abolished and the same rules to be applied to citizens and ministers. We propose in particular - Potami, in other words - the establishment of a judiciary, with a majority of senior judges and prosecutors, who will have the power to prosecute political persons. And in order to solve the question of the immunity of Members, when, how, who decides, we say: The competence to waive the immunity of Members of Parliament or not is not the responsibility of Parliament. They can't decide the parties for their people. It may decide on a judicial board, by a majority of judges and prosecutors of the Court of Appeal. Strengthening the independence of justice, we all realise that this is a very important issue and must be achieved by changing the way in which its leadership is chosen and not chosen by the government, by the Prime Minister, by the Ministerial Council. In particular, let me - and I would like to give a little parenthesis - at a time when the government's long arm has been spreading again - has happened many times in the past - at the prosecutor's offices. I'm specific. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] It comes to my mind and this last targeting of Costas Simitis. I fear that the doctrine Paulis, which he supported with some hesitation, has finally supported it, and Mr Tsipras himself, is a sign of a totalitarian logic. Unless everything is done for the headlines and for the purchase of 'human rights'. Anyway, I would say to your SYRIZA colleagues and to the government that the abstention to modernization, which you confess, should not lure you into irrationality. By insisting on the subject of the leadership of justice and how it is chosen, we believe that it should be chosen from a list drawn up by the highest courts - I told you before - and there may be a debate in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament. But the decision should be the President of the Republic. Note also a different proposal from the Potami: Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Courts are chosen by the plenary session of the respective court, by secret ballot. Now we go to the other big topic, which is the relationship between the Church - State. I am also addressing the New Democracy side here. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, talk about progress in the 19th century. We recognise the historical contribution of Orthodoxy, but the state must be religiously neutral. We fully guarantee religious freedom, but education in our schools is not a matter of metropolitans. I would like to add some new thoughts to our debate. Don't react until I finish my proposal. The state must have supervision at the places of worship. It is a debate that is currently being held in Europe by progressive citizens, not by conservative citizens, I am explaining. In other words, they cannot function without control in their composition, neither churches, mosques or synagogues. And they cannot be created and supported by underground financing, as is happening now in the European Union, which, as you know, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are competing for how much mosques each will open in one city. We must therefore make decisions on religious neutrality, but without handing out civil warfare to dark, unfaithful pursuits. I never speak more than the time I have been given, but you will allow me today to conclude our proposal. Changes in the method of staffing the independent authorities. The selection of the Presidents of the independent authorities, in our view, must be made solely by the President of the Republic, after a list proposed by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament and the independent authorities being appointed by decisions of the 3/5 Conference of Presidents. The state is being dismantled, which is not being discussed and the reasons are obviously well known. The parties want to have a very good relationship with the state, because through its control they continue their pan-state. What do we suggest? Strengthen the presence of reputably selected executives in the state pyramid. And we have something in particular: to be inconsistent between the capacity of the highest party and the highest official of the wider public sector. Do we dare? This will be a brave decision that will cut off some of the client-state tentacles. Control of public money and transparency in contracts: We propose establishing an audit authority, fully independent and self-government, to control the revenue and expenditure of the State and legal persons under public law. The audit authority is composed of three types of members: senior judges, senior civil servants and qualified technicians, following a decision by a large majority of Parliament. A special regime should also be laid down in the Constitution to increase investment - also included in the six proposal - in the effort to increase investment. In our view, then, the provision by law of economic and fiscal incentives for large-scale investments, with foreign capital, is allowed. And for these investments, there should be a Greek State's commitment not to change the tax regime and the conditions of the relevant permits for some time. That's how the investments come, the big investments. At the same time - take note of something that has not been said, but for us it is very important - we should protect the economy and society from the often contradictory proposals of lower courts on budgetary matters. A pacifist, who suddenly becomes the Deputy Minister of Finance. And what's the way, in our view? The institution of the pilot administration must be extended and must now be mandatory for all courts, when they end up in a crisis of unconstitutionality, to refer the matter to plenary in the relevant Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, priorities are changing and must be changed, depending on the season. And right now, we have two major priorities. Protection of the environment and transgenic justice. They are the two new priorities in Europe, they are the two new priorities in Greece. We propose to the state's primary obligations, as defined in Article 2, that the state ensures equality between generations and to remove the disparities that exist in practice, and that the state acts to protect the environment, biodiversity and tackle climate change. The fact that environmental protection and transgenic justice propose to be added to the primary obligations of the Constitution, state, in Article 2, suggests and will be a sign that we give great value to these two issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution - and I am closing - cannot be a marathon process, which often leads to a dead end. We must therefore also change Article 110 of the Constitution. That is our suggestion. We agree with the constitutionalists who have proposed that Parliament should be able to revise articles of the Constitution, except those relating to the form of the constitution, obviously by a two-thirds majority (2/3). The provisions revised may not be reviewed again before a five-year period has elapsed. The debate on the Constitution should have been a great opportunity to reflect on the crisis of democracy that exists, the frustration and abstention of the citizens, which is multiplying and, finally, the kind of society in which we and our children would like to live. These thoughts should lead us to the decisions on the new constitution and not the temporary party interests, what is very often guided by Parliament's decisions. Can we do it? He'll show up in two months. I fear, however, that conservative populism and barren party purposes will land Greece again in the past and not in the future, not even in the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u285	Thank you to the President of the River Parliamentary Group Mr Stavros Theodorakis. It is known to the House that the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction and Infrastructure, the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Economic and Social Solidarity tabled a draft law on 12-11-2018: "Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. It is also known to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Statement: (a) of 29 June 2018 Act of Legislative Content: ‘Extension of reduced VAT rates in the Leros Islands, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios’ (A' 115), (b) of 24 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area Act: ‘Special account recommendation for the relief of fires struck in areas of the Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018’ (A'135), (c) of 26 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area Act: ‘Extensive measures to support the affected and restoration of damage from fires struck in areas of the Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018’ (A'138') and (d) of 10 August 2018 Act of the Legislative Content of the European Union’. Finally, it is known to the House that the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini (Photi) Genomes and the Members of her party tabled on 13-11-2018 a proposal for a law: 'First package of economic recovery and social justice'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The last speaker is the President of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Vassilis Leventis, who we are calling for in Stepma. Then the Minister of Justice, Mr. Michalis Kalogerou, will close this sitting. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u286	I should like to welcome the House, the President-in-Office, the ministers present. We were a little forgotten in this Chamber. I haven't spoken for about four months. I don't know why. Have there not been plenary sessions at the level of Heads of State or Government? Didn't they make speeches? And if it's not four, but I'm sure it's three and a half months since we have a discussion at the level of the Heads of State. This is not pleasant, because the country is facing great problems. The House is the place where everything should be discussed and not the channel panels or the exhibitions. The Thessaloniki International Exhibition is a remarkable institution, but since everyone goes there and lie, it has also become an institution identified with the deception of the world. However, I note this absence, that for four months there has been no plenary. This is important. You will tell me that it was summer or I don't know what else, but the country has been facing very serious problems. He said the Prime Minister two to three days ago in France that in the first half of 2015 his mind was not so clear and clear about the end of the first half of 2015, so he made the right decisions. I don't understand that. So, he was going to get us out of the euro? Because at that time, the fate of the country was played, whether the country would stay in the field of the euro or become Venezuela, third-world. When a Prime Minister confesss that for a six-month period he had a blurred mind and cleared his mind in the sixth month, that is very dangerous, because the mind is something that can blur again. It's not that she strangled once and fade forever. It's a tough thing, man's mind. Man does not fully define his mind, since such dilemmas are taking place on such serious issues. In any case, I say this as one thing that a man cannot justify not having made his decisions. How did SYRIZA come down in the elections in January 2015? Not having crystallized inside what he wants? He said he would push Europeans. He said he would change Europe. He said some things, that is, which were scary when one retrospectively thought about them. Now that the time is still critical, the Prime Minister comes and assures that no cuts will be made in retrospectives. But this government has voted for these cuts. On the one hand, do we vote for something and on the other hand, do we beg that it does not apply? Is there a brain blur again? Excuse me, the ministers come out and assure the panels that pensions will not be cut. I heard Mr. Drasakis one day at the ERT, who said that pensions would not be cut. The day before yesterday, they told the ERT that on 21 November it would be decided whether the pensions would be cut. How does a politician get out, without having contacted strangers, without having crystallized in what he should do and announce something? Are we in a hurry to convince the inner audience that we're going well? Is the inner audience here the problem or can we convince Europe that we are doing well? What are the criteria to convince us that the economy is going well? The criteria are the return of the money that has left the banks and the investments. As much as you are struggling now to convince the inner audience here, you will gather a thousand people, Mitsotakis, a thousand others, will applaud you, but in essence, the same people who applaud you will doubt yours. Even those who applaud you, because you have disappointed them many times. You want a revision of the constitution. Mr. Tsipras, I remember, two years ago, one night, he made a gathering out of this House. In fact, I'd come and I'd kindly come to see what he'd say. He's going to review the constitution. Here, from today's debate is the following: Others have on his head a review of Mitsotakis and Tsipras. In another way, SYRIZA is thinking of the revision, in a completely different way, of the New Democracy. So there will be no review, because to be reviewed, it must take a hundred and eighty now, so that the other House will want fifty. So there will be no now a hundred eighty, there will be a hundred fifty. He's gonna want an eighty. Will the next House be eighty? How's it going to be? Here I predict that the next House will find it difficult to form a government. And the only government that can form, as things show, is the government of Mr. Mitsotakis with Mrs. Gennamas. Mrs. Gennimatas is fighting to convince her that she will not co-operate with Mr. Mitsotakis, but I think she is the only government that can exist after the elections. I don't see another shape. What Mr Tsipras says now is that he will manage to change things and come first, he is quite serious, I don't think I'm serious about it. A few months before the election of so many units in the electorate, it is very difficult to do so, however difficult you are trying to announce appointments, which will start from 2020 and 2021. And this is another madness, you will allow me to announce appointments made by the next governments. What's this now? Promises of appointments by the next governments and given that the present government is likely to be able to leave power. So you work for Mr. Mitsotakis? Are you helping him form a government? So he's unable to make the assignments and he wants your help? I don't understand that. I think that the debates are free and free, and the committee will also come together, since they are in a different direction and in a different direction. I have heard the Prime Minister, who has given an sophisticated legal interpretation, that when you review articles in one direction, the next House cannot alter them in the opposite direction and has mentioned the opinion of a professor, a constitutionalist. All the other teachers have the opposite view that the next government is doing what it wants. Only articles are made out in descriptive terms. In any direction the next one wants to make the change. So, that's why I don't know. What prescribers are leading Mr. Tsipras? Which prescribers are those who tell him that you're now reviewing the articles and the next government can't do whatever it wants? Whatever he wants to do, it is enough to have an eighty or fifty - one percent, depending on how many votes the revision has been proposed now by this House. You want the election of the President of the Republic to change it so that elections are not held. You are, however, the government, which had elections in 2014, on the basis of the presidential election. By taking advantage of this article of the Constitution, you have created an election in 2014 and you are now coming and saying that you have been taught badly and have to change it so that in future the governments can not fall? I don't understand that. You have thrown a government - bad government, that of Mr Mitsotakis, which I would throw, since we are frankly speaking - and you have preferred the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u287	Samara or Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u288	Samara, I'm sorry, not Mitsotakis. I don't know these two, they're the same plant. I don't think I underestimated them with what I said. I was wrong to say that. And now you're coming and you're saying don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u289	He says Mitsotakis is central.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u290	Is it done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u291	No dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, if you are kind. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u292	Yeah, but I think the center apostates are the family. They've betrayed the Center. Anyway, the Mitsotakis actually started out as centers. He was a nephew of Eleftherios Venizelos, with all the backgrounds, but he was "wet" and to become a Prime Minister he moved to another camp. While you have raised a government with an argument about the President's issue, you are now coming and saying 'the government cannot fall'. So, what did you do in 2014? If we had a judge to judge you, what would the judge say? To close, and the President's point, I believe that the only retreat that can be made is the third election to be made with sixty-five Members. Not twice, not three thirds, quarters, five times. This is bullshit, having a country six to seven months out of hand on the President's issue. The third vote does not want 180 Members and wants 165 Members. It is something that has been proposed by professors of law on this point. It's a point of view. It is simply the third time that the number of Members has diminished, that we approach the election a little. I shall refer to the matter of the Church. On the matter of the Church, without Clergy knowing anything, without the hierarchy knowing, - I with hierarchs who spoke had no idea - the Archbishop and the Prime Minister reached the cameras and said, "We agreed." What did you agree to? That's how a deal is made in a democratic city? So the Archbishop represents the entire Church? Juda does the Church and the chief do whatever he wants? We respect the Archbishop, but he is not a representative of the entire Church. The Church is eighty so many high priests and ten thousand priests. Did any of them take the view? Nobody. The main thing is that the Prime Minister has obtained the so-called neutrality from the Archbishop. What does neutrality mean? So, do we put the official Church of Greece on the same fate as Jehovah’s? That's what she does. Neutrality what does it mean? It means that the official church ceases to exist, all the doctrines before the law are equal, and therefore the Mormon Church, the Church of Antiventists of the Seventh Day and Orthodoxy, are prestigious. These and the most atheists would not dare to forgive me very much. I don't understand what you're trying to do. You got 35% three years ago. How long have you got now? No matter how much you have, and have the same - which you know exactly what you have - can such a matter of two hundred years, identify a church and a people, resolve it? So what? You came with one knife and you slaughtered Macedonia, another one slaughtered the church? Did Greece expect you to unravel everything? Is Greece's date to unravel everything was this Parliament? You guys are obsessed with SYRIZA. But I think the Archbishop should back up. He'll lose the flock. I was a classmate in the years I was at the Polytechnic. And I'm bragging about being an indictment and a godly Christian. I wasn't a religious person, I just loved the church. I think, because I have accepted the Panhellenic Association of Greek Clergy, that the priests feel betrayed. They feel betrayed because public officials become private employees, because they question whether the state will give the money it is to get their wages right. And, secondly, because they believe that the Greek Orthodox Church cannot be released from Greece, which gave Patriarchs who were detonated in Constantinople, who gave Athanasian Deserts who were devastated, to enter the same fate as the Mormons and Jews. I don't understand who put this kind of thought into your head. Whatever you do, if these changes don't make a conscience to the people is as if they don't. And in the papers still manage to pass laws, to pass everything, to the soul of the people what you are going to do doesn't even find unimportant approval. And in the Macedonian and church issues, the approval you have from society is not even 10%. Why do you mess with the crowd of people who aren't your fault? The crowd of others waited for you. Wait till you solve the financial problem. He was expecting you to step on corruption. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Now you're gonna do it? I didn't get any news if you did. He was expecting other things from you. And you put the Mormons and the Jehoiabes the same as the orthodox. And to achieve this, what did you do? You've given absolute power to the despots. You've made the despots absolute rulers. You made them do building operations like Ephraim. The example of Ephraim, you all follow now. You will have them build up to have revenues and to be absolute authority over the flock and on the clergy, especially on the clergy. But your program will not only thrive, but it will also be the cause of your premature fall, a few weeks. I don't know how long you've had. You know that among yourselves. You keep saying that the elections will take place in October 2019. Whenever you want to do them either in October or in May or now in February. I don't think anyone makes any sense, however, that within the head of Tsipra there is the thought of throwing Skopje's ball at Mitsotakis. That suspicion doesn't come out of my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u293	Don't talk, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u294	I don't think Tsipras would be safe to do everything himself. It's a big stigma that's gonna hit his head and his family. I think he has a solution to run elections and throw the ball at Mitsotakis. Mitsotakis does not make this "crime". He says he doesn't like the language, he doesn't like the identity of the scum, but for the name he says nothing. And in this place there is not a single journalist from the top to ask him: "Mr. Mitsotakis, you really do not like the issue of language and identity. If you become Prime Minister, what name will you take out this Land?’ Not a single journalist was found asking him. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And a woman, she does!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u295	How much more time do you want, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u296	I have a few more things to say. I haven't spoken in four months. I forgot what the House was like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u297	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u298	I therefore believe that there are three versions for the elections. So don't insist on the last October 2019. You won't get a lot of wages yet. The wages may be few. Meanwhile, they come out and say about retrospectives - I think Mr Voutsis and Mr Metropoulou - of MPs. Why do we not go through an amendment to the first law that Members will not be involved in retrospectives and will not be equitable with the judges?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u299	It's done this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u300	This has been solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u301	Anyway. They went out one morning to Papadakis one by one and they said "we're quitting". What does one of us say - a quitter? The House has to give up everything. One of them will come out of retrospectives? Is that a way of dealing with society?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, you know that there were no retrospectives to resign Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u303	But the lawyers insist that, because there is an equalisation with the judges, there is unfortunately a possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u304	The equation has been abolished since 2009. There is no equation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u305	Are all lawyers irrelevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u306	They are irrelevant to those who insist on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u307	For private universities, the Centres' Union is of the opinion that private universities should not yet become one, because it will be the same as the ERT. When the private channels started, ERT ended. It was a party and could not compete with private channels. If a university is founded by five shipowners in Crete they will tell the teachers of the Metsovian Polytechnics, “What pay do you get? You get two grand? We're giving you five." Everyone will go there and soon the highest institutions will become something worse than the old TEI. We must make it clear, first of all, that the state must be dismantled, that state universities can compete with private ones and then give the green light. Our party, the Centro Association, is in favour of private universities. But if we start from today, we'll have the depreciation of state universities. As the state universities are today, they will not be able to compete with them. With these 'Rubics', the communism and all these disgraces within universities will not be able to compete with the private sector. In the meantime, Mr Mitsotakis, who insists on private universities, forgets that he will want EUR 15,000 a year for a tuition fee for each child. He'll want to go rent, because the university won't be next door to his house. Again there will be a problem that Drama will enter Crete, want rent, want books. Private universities are getting paid for everything. Of course, we will not be able for a long time to keep the country without private universities, because Europe is pressing and the reality is pressing, to explain. The country cannot, for a long time, reject the establishment of private universities. So we urgently need to launch a state-sponsored decommissioning. So don't announce appointments. You were raped by clergymen to take others and you say 1 to 5 became 1 to 1 and give him time eight and a half more. In other words, you want the sweater to be "removed". That's pure insanity. This SYRIZA obsession with civil servants is insane. There are deficits in public, but there are in public and many slow-wages, and there are many people who are paid without doing anything. Have we found them? Have we done the right transitions? Have we removed the "fat" of slow payroll? Oh, no. So how do you hurry to appoint others? Is that the big one? Is that what you miss? Is that missing from the country? I wanted to say something else about the criminalisation of the ruse. Listen, I've always said that the ruffles should be criminalized. Not every Member can send tables to friends of the Minister "appointed them, nominate the others". Since there is an IASC, what is the point of intervening MPs or parties for friendships and for friends? It's over and out. Let's put it in the Constitution that if a member of parliament is found who asks for an instrument or a ruffet to lose his seat. As also, he must lose his seat and a Member who has come out with a party and is changing party, because he has now been generalised lately and it has become like football that different parties change. And it is not only the Members who leave the parties who are responsible, it is also those who accept these Members and contribute to the footballing of politics. Another important thing that Germany has done is when a bond comes through the House. The country issues a bond, not the Minister to make his head, but to vote for the National Representation. That's right. In Germany, when the deficit exceeds 3%, Chancellor is referring to justice. You know that? Has anyone referred to Greece in this regard that it exposes the country to large deficits? When bonds are issued which charge the country with deficits and may be co-ordinated to bankruptcy tomorrow, the National Representation must take the responsibility of issuing a bond, not just the Minister. This must also enter the Constitution. Seriously punished by the Prime Minister or by the Ministers if they issue bonds to the zuca. Another question we had asked for the polls was to establish an independent authority. I have told Mr Tsipras about four times, I have noted them. 'Yes, we will establish an independent authority'. I don't want to check on the polling companies. Just what do I want? Before “KATHEMERIN” writes that the poll has the following results, to dictate an independent authority for eight hours, to see the findings of the measurements, to judge the honesty of the poll, and then to be able to announce the result. He said yes, but what's going on today? Mitsotakis makes his own polls in which the Parliament always appears five-party to be the Association of Centres outside and shows only the intention, while the Centro Association takes 4%, and Tsipras makes his own polls with "AYI" which are only three-four points the difference between New Democracy and SYRIZA. Here's credibility! Mitsotakis is trying to lure the world that the next House will be five-party, but he badly dreams about it, because he will land undisturbedly on the night of the elections, the Centroon Association will not do him a favor, and Tsipras is making polls at "AGEY" that it is only three points the difference, and therefore, with a few appointments and a few rosés we can cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, you have reached 30 minutes. If you're kind enough, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u309	Another issue is that the Council of Political Heads has made... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I see some people are uncomfortable. I know, when you hear things that sit on your nostril, you're reckless.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u310	You have exceeded time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u311	The Council of Political Heads, both for the scorpion and for the church as often as I ask the President of the Republic, says that the last amendment to the Constitution is the prerogatives of the Prime Minister. To be a referendum, the Prime Minister does it on his own. In order to become a Board of Chiefs, Paulopoulos cannot be allowed to do so, the Prime Minister must. So what are we paying him? To cut ribbons? I don't get it. Since the Board of Chiefs can't convene. A referendum, and 2 million and 3 million signatures to have, the way things are today, you can't do. Christoulos remember how many he picked up. In the trash, they were thrown away. Unfortunately, it didn't work. Is this a democracy that we serve? [[Noise in the Chamber]] They say it's a democracy because it works today. When you leave power to see what democracy you will suffer. Then let me see how much you like democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to something: I have said that the speeches here as Head of the Centro Association do them for society. Why are they uncomfortable? Because the New Democracy wants to say "go, go on, sew Ministers' costumes", and the symbiotes want to stay a hundred years to rule. No, gentlemen! Both of you will be punished by the people in the elections coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u312	The meeting will be closed by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Michael Kalogerou. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to make a joke on the occasion of one of the proposals we have heard from Mr Leventis. It seems, however, to me, Minister for Finance, that you are probably not at risk of this criminalisation of the bond at the moment. So now, in today's debate, starting with facts, facts, objective facts. First objective: Since August 2018, the Financial Adjustment Programme has been completed. And before, and after August 2018, this government is trying to heal the wounds in the body of the social majority. He's trying to shield the state. He tries to complete reforms, always for the benefit of the social majority. Next, these events make the other forces of the Greek Parliament uncomfortable. This weakness can cause conditions of political empathy, that is to say, one of the explanations we can give for the terms of political controversy, as has even been seen today in today's debate. We must admit that there have been clear opinions and opinions. There was an institutional, in my view, position by the Prime Minister in his first speech, and, in my opinion, it was the position of the Chief of Staff Responsibility, as to what is the prerequisite for this debate, which we will see progressing in the next two months, on the deadline to be granted to this committee and the terms of consent. Is the political consensus, ladies and gentlemen, an abstract political concept, or is what we have heard today by representatives of the Change Movement, but also by the Quaestorial Opposition, that is to say that this is the political environment that does not really allow political consensus in a debate on the constitutional review? This will be one of the main institutional questions to which the members of the committee will be invited. In this answer, what should not escape? The social demand must not escape. The social demand is that, it is the voice of society which often takes precedence over any artificial or substantial political and ideological confrontation. We can ask another question here. Is ideological controversy legitimate in a committee which will meet on the constitutional provisions that will be proposed to be revised? Of course it is legitimate. Can ideological confrontation create consensus? Of course it can create consensus. What is the opposite view of this? The ideological conflict must be carried out in terms of empathy, in order to end up in a motto, in a new doctrine. What's that? To defeat the ideas, the left-wing ideas. One note was that. A second note is this. There has been a lot of discussion today as to whether the two months are enough. First of all, Mr Loverdo, I hope I will not disprove and remember correctly - it is that in 1986, in my view, the most important constitutional review we have experienced, the PASOK proposal was that the committee lasted three days, the New Democracy's proposal was to last a month and a compromise solution was found, which was twenty days. So in the next constitutional review, I think we went around six months. What do I mean by that? That all this is relative. And why is it relevant? What will determine whether or not the two months are sufficient? In my opinion, this will be determined by the degree of maturity of the issues that you will be asked to discuss in this committee. Are they mature enough? Is this a sudden conversation? Is this conversation suddenly sudden? Again, in my opinion, no. Because the Prime Minister's first introductory position has been preceded in 2016, but, above all, public consultation has been held, which - I am sorry to say it - has been swept away by several people, perhaps treated with suspicion by the scientific community - from a place to be precise - and which certainly sets a given in terms of the Revision Committee. The result of the public consultation, as has been recorded in detail, is part of the minutes of today's debate. We would all do well to consult the outcome of this public consultation. Thirdly, the key numbers in social consensus: a hundred fifty-one, eighty-eighty. What did we hear today? We heard that at all costs, at all costs, the number of eighty should be avoided. I want to make two comments on this. First, there is an intermediate number that is neither fifty - one nor eighty. It may be another number that describes political correlations and consents on specific issues, even if it does not reach eighty. And that produces a political result, which cannot leave us indifferent. One of the prisoners. Secondly, in terms of the number of eighty-eight, those who formulate it universally, horizontally? So on all the issues to which I shall refer briefly, which are recorded in our proposal, eighty to rule out? Mr Katrugalos asked, in my opinion, what we are going to do about Article 86. Not to raise a hundred and eighty votes in the Review Committee? Why? The only explanation that one can give in relation to this is why there is indeed a reluctance in constitutional revision itself. In other words, I claim that anyone who does not want an eighty, particularly in matters where consensus is reflected in today's debate, does not really want a constitutional review. Of course, we've seen this before. Remember the 2006-2008 constitutional review, which started with fifty-five articles and reached three? Is that our expectation? So we should start all this conversation to end up? Also important in this respect is an abstract proposal that we have heard today from the Chief of Police Vice-Population. We started from 'do not enter a debate on the constitutional review'. We have passed a communication saying 'nine constitutional revision points' and we have now come to a proposal of fifty-seven points. Question which may seem simplistic to you: Was it not the right day today in order to put this proposal in a concrete way? In addition to the oral development of this proposal in view of a report of ideas or a political report, I think that already today, together with the Consultation Report submitted in the Minutes, it would be advisable to have the specific proposal of the Officer in relation to the fifty-seven points. Unless they've been filed in the Minutes and I don't understand them. Have they actually been filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u315	Good. So since it has been tabled, I repeat and I say that once it has been tabled, and I do not understand it, we need to see from the first moment what these fifty-seven points are. The question is: there are thirteen points in which, he says, we agree. We understand both points immediately. It's Article 62 and Article 86. The rest of the 11 in relation to our proposal will be seen in a few moments, because I am not in agreement with the other eleven points. As far as all the rest is concerned, I would like to remind you of what was heard by the Chief of Staff and the Parliamentary Group, but also in today's debate: 'The New Democracy will not consent to a military review. We will not allow a shrinking review procedure and we will prevent such a development as the next parliamentary majority.' Today he added the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation and the phrase: "with every means". I think that from a supermarket proposal of fifty-seven points, half a constitution, a New Democracy claim that, in order to discuss yours, you will also accept ours, in conjunction with this phrase and in conjunction with the KINAL monitoring phrase, for no reason that the number of hundreds of eighty can be reached, first two conclusions can be drawn. Firstly, there are a number of people who do not want this constitutional review and, secondly, a political conclusion on Civic Opposition, that so far its position has been blurred. A blurred position on the constitutional review is, in my opinion, another reason why the New Democracy cannot win the next elections. Let us at least hope that the conditions of social consensus can be reflected in a clear way. So let us look for these consensus points with the other parliamentary groups, to see if we can draw safe conclusions. I should also like to make it clear here that we have a proposal, which does not only concern a list of articles, but is reflected in the proposal by SYRIZA and this direction - content. What will the Review Committee decide? Will she just decide a list of articles? Will it also decide the direction of the articles to be reviewed? That will be decided by the committee itself. The committee itself at the end of its work will say that this is the list and may set guidelines - content. Indeed, there is the thought of the decision 11/2003 of the Supreme Special Court in this respect that it would be appropriate to reflect direction and content. So, let us now see the specific points in the proposal, because I think it is right that this House and the people who are watching us should also listen to what these proposals have finally been tabled to the Greek Parliament by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Religious neutrality, lack of official state religion and the introduction of the exclusive oath for specific government officials, civil servants, officials, officials, MPs, President of the Republic, etc. Do we agree that this debate is mature or do we disagree? What was recorded today in this Chamber? The Change Movement said yes, it is time for a church - state separation to be reflected in the Constitution. We recorded the same from the river. If, with an initial debate, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and Potami say yes to this debate or approach it positively, how on the other hand can we say that there is nothing going on with the eighty-eight votes? I'm going to keep asking that question. This conversation is overripe fruit of social developments? In my opinion, yes. Is this a progressive option, which has been discussed sufficiently decades in this country? Of course it is. Is there a draft agreement between the church, as represented by the Archbishop and the state? At first level, of course, yes. Now, of course, the question here - and it was raised by the Prime Minister himself - is: is it really an agreement, which is good, but is it too late? Today the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation has given us a second version of things. He told us that it was probably good on one side, that this was probably what New Democracy meant by its first public position. Is it, then, a positive one or is it a hostile to the body of Christ and to the congregation? Because it cannot escape our attention that, at the time we start such a debate, on the other hand, all these paradoxes are heard by representatives of the Officerate in relation to the abolition of religious symbols, Christian holidays and all that we have heard lately. Is it a bold or a cowardly proposal after all? The Change Movement what he tells us about it? Because the Change Movement presented two versions of things. One version was - represented by a representative of the Change Movement - that the government gave everything to the church. That was a first approach. A second version of things - which these two cannot combine - is that they are finally in a state of insecurity of ten thousand priests and their families. They can't have both. Let's go to the second point of the proposal: Articles 21 and 22: Who can prevent a broad consensus that shields the State's obligation of practical solidarity with its citizens? I think that the Change Movement has also been positive on this proposal. I am referring to the constitutional guarantee of a decent standard of living, the upgrading of state aid to children, the third age, the disabled and the most deprived. Who doesn't want a social right and who doesn't want a constitutionally established National Health System? Who disagrees with the interconnection of the minimum wage with the collective bargaining? Who disagrees with unilateral referral to arbitration? Who disagrees with banning the strikes as a measure? The Greek society is more ready than ever, considering the ten years of crisis and the nine years of monuments. Article 28: Here the proposal requires a referendum when an international treaty or an agreement conferring sovereign state powers is to be ratified. On this point, we have a first manifested strong disagreement, because this proposal by the Chief of Staff Response called it a dangerous proposal. Let us think about what these international treaties and international agreements grant sovereign state powers. And not to start a debate on the future memoranda that our democracy will prevent, there is - let us say - the legal issue of the European Constitution. The European Constitution in France did not go along with a referendum in general. As far as Articles 30, 32, 34 and 35 are concerned, it seems that while we all agree that the President of the Republic should be disconnected from the dissolution of the House, it seems that we do not agree on recourse to the people. Here, the SYRIZA proposal is about several opportunities for enlargement within six months to seek consensus. And if consensus cannot be achieved in any other way than those you have proposed - that is to say, to make a choiceary body more broad, to look at it differently - in any case, if consensus is not reached, we will be at a dead end. How will this dead end be solved? By appealing to the people. With regard to Articles 37, 38 and 84(2), in relation to the obligation to be a Member, to have the Prime Minister's status as a parliament, the parties have not been placed. I think, however, that there is an experience. I am referring above all to the Change Movement and to what happened to the then Prime Minister George Papandreou. With regard to the constructive vote of censure, we had a first record of consensus from the Potami. Potami seems to have a positive view. Article 54 has to do with the proportional electoral system, which the New Democracy has included in 2014. As far as the democratic Hellenism is concerned, there is a proposal from SYRIZA for the election of up to five MPs of the State who will represent Greeks. Someplace here could end the populism of the doctrine 'where land and paws', which has developed strongly in the past few months, but we did not have a clear position today. The political parties will be called upon to place themselves. With regard to the abolition of the professional politician with the temporary blocking of election - three successive parliamentary periods, and then we have this embroidery - there has been no clear position at present. In relation to Articles 62 and 86, it seems to be our idea at last. Do we really mean? We'll see. It's to prove it. And the 180 number here, the number of consensus, is important. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need three more minutes, Mr. President. I continue with regard to the points of the proposal. In Rule 101a in relation to the number of independent authorities there is indeed a need to establish consensus, to see whether, according to our proposal, three fifths of the Conference of Presidents are a proper proposal. But what, in my opinion, is even more important is accountability, that is, parliamentary scrutiny of the acts and omissions of the independent authorities, as proposed by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I shall end with the popular legislative initiative. A referendum with a people's initiative on critical national issues following a request of five hundred thousand citizens who have the electoral right and on digitised bills regulating a serious economic issue, other than budget. The referendums were generally dealt with here today with suspicion and were also considered by the Chief of Officerial Opposition as dangerous. There is the proposal for Article 73 in relation to the proposal for a law by a hundred thousand citizens who have a electoral right to table legislative proposals. And here there was no placement. I conclude with Article 102 in relation to the local government agencies. This is SYRIZA's proposal. Another issue, and I will go to the dilemma, Mr President. In the SYRIZA proposal there is no specific reference to a revision of a specific provision of the Constitution as regards the functioning of justice. Why? Did any institutional dialogue take place before? There was no institutional dialogue. Does an institutional dialogue need to take precedence? Of course we need to have an institutional dialogue beforehand. Are there any issues that are outstanding at the moment and must also be resolved? Yes, at the level of formal laws. Before we reach the Constitution let us see formal laws on the functioning and organisation of judicial officers and courts, which need to be amended. We have heard from the Chief of Officerial Anti-Population: firstly, the abolition of the payroll, secondly, a retirement limit for the seventy years and, thirdly, a - abstractly told us - preventive constitutionality. I don't know if this proposal has anything to do with the New Democracy's earlier proposal to form a constitutional court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u316	It's for the SAD.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u317	So it doesn't have to do. It has to do with the S.O.D., a preventive check. Simple question: When did we consult these and with whom? What, then, is the view of judicial associations? They have an opinion on this in the case of judicial associations and judicial officers, the legal world, the academic community, lawyers, etc.Huh? I think we can in two months of work see what judicial associations say in relation to this proposal. I shall end with the'stabilization'. If you would therefore like to credit to the Left and to SYRIZA the guarantee of labour rights, religious neutrality, proportional electoral system, referendums, rationalisation of the election of the President of the Republic, amendments of parliamentary immunity and the law on the responsibility of Ministers, the legislative initiative of the people, calling this proposal'symbolisation', you are right to do and give it to us. But you will not be able to charge us, and above all the society will charge us, the inertia, the privatisation of the social state, the neoliberalisation of Article 106 of the Constitution, the budget, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the structuring and environmental immunity are calling it. You won't be able to charge us. I close with some thoughts about the core, the guiding idea of our proposal: the deepening of democracy, the strengthening of popular sovereignty, the activation of the citizen and the expansion of popular participation. Our proposal is therefore aimed at a more democratic constitution. I wonder which democratic citizen would object to that? Because the great challenge we face today, not only in our country, but in Europe and the world, is the spread of the lame of neonazism, neo-fascism and far-right authoritarianism and not constitutional populism. It is shocking to raise the right-wing parties and organisations, even more shocking to adopt far-right rhetoric by political forces moving from centre-right to extremes, unregulated. The determination of society, however, is not a natural phenomenon, it is not something that comes from heaven, it has specific causes. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that the citizens feel that they do not have a voice, that they are not heard, that the political system does not take into account them. So the logic of the one-way technocracy and economic orthodomy, the logic of 'there is no alternative', that there is no alternative, has misled thousands of our fellow citizens who lead to the nets of criminal organisations. We therefore believe - and this is the core of our proposal - that if we restore the function of democracy, if we give voice and activate citizens, we will make a decisive contribution to halting the rise of the extreme right. This is a primary consensus risk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Minister of Justice, Mr. Michael Kalogerou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is tabling its report: (a) In the draft budget for the Parliament for the financial year 2019, and (b) Parliament's financial year 2017 statement. Also, the Special Committees of the Hellenic Dissociation, Research and Technology, Road Safety and Penitentiary Systems and other structures of Inmate Invitation are tabling their reports in accordance with Rule 43A(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the appointment of a deadline, pursuant to Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, is adjourned for the presentation of the Commission's report on the revision of the Constitution. I propose that two months should be spent, namely by 15 January 2019, as agreed by the Conference of Presidents. Does the House agree to set 15 January 2019 as the date for submission of the Commission report on the revision of the Constitution. To record the parties' views, Mr Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, as the speakers have heard, we are proposing that the committee should have at least three months, so at least one month more, because time is too short and this haste demonstrates the lack of serious importance for the substance of the majority voting in the committee. We ask for at least three months of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, in the proposal I made this morning, the first vote will be taken at the end of February.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u322	If I remember, you said the end of January.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u323	No, no. A little bit with the extension said by the President that it would be reasonable to give, we would go to this date. Our main proposal, the original one, is, in addition to what the majority suggests, that we should have the first vote at the end of February and, finally, the second vote in March. There is reasoning in answer to the Minister of Justice, but now is not the time for further analyses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Paradisepoulou, you have the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u325	The proposal from the Conference of Presidents seems reasonable. I think that within a two-month period we can complete the work, as long as we don't have any abuses. I hope we'll avoid them and get through them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u327	We think that the deadline could be a little longer, and that is why we put ourselves on the table by saying 'the present' to this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u329	We believe that two months are a very narrow framework and we would like the committee to be able to request an extension of work, at least if necessary, so that we can have the comfort of time for processing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u331	It's none of our business, Mr. President. Here in three years you have dismantled the state. Three months over, three months down... We put ourselves in 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, we agree with the majority proposal, which we, too, form, towards the end of January.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u334	Very good. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, we too agree with the two-month deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u336	I therefore believe that this House has agreed by a majority to set 15 January 2019 as the date for the Commission's report on the revision of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-14-S1-commons.u337	With the consent of this House at 21.25 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 15 November 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, according to the supplementary specific agenda distributed.
