ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 28-2-2018, the minutes of the PRACTICAL Sessions of Wednesday, 28 February 2018, with regard to the vote in all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Principle of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLINIKA PETRELIA ANONYME to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the land area “Arta-Preveza””. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies “Total E&P Greece B.V.”, “Edison International S.p.A.” and “Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company” for the grant of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 2, Ionian Sea”. 3. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and ENERGEAN OIL & GAS - ENERGYIAKI AEGAIOU ANONYMINISTRATIVE RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONTHRAKES to grant the right of investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area “Aithalocarnania”’. 4. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ELLENIC PETRIC ANONY RECOMMENDATION to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the land area “Northwest Peloponnese”’ I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Georgios Psychogios, MP Mr Korinthias:]] A. REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday, March 2, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1155-27-2-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development on "Financing Networks for Water Law of Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1154/26-2-2018 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the Athens Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject of "Turkish specifications, which the ELPE demands, in order to accept the offer of their services to the refineries of ELPE in Pachi, Elefsina and Aspropyrgos". 3. The Question No 1081/13-2-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a Hazardous Waste Landscaping Area in Megalopolis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, knows in Parliament that the following questions of the relevant ministers will not be discussed: The third under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place from a para-state website. Cesarean’, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska, because of unsuccessful obligations. The second under No 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Functioning of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" Paionia, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Toska, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The fifth under No. 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent, based on the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska, on the grounds of misappropriated obligations. The sixth question under number 926/26-1-2018, the second question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the FYROM?", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis, on the grounds of the workload. The third, with number 1150/26-2-2018, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to the extraordinary obligations of the Minister. The fourth question under number 1163/27-2-2018 of the First Cycle of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' distribution agency, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Achcioglou, who will represent the Government at a conference of the European Economic and Social Committee. The fourth question under number 1164/27-2-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Union - Rural Partnership of Trikala” (ESAF)”, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Achthioglou, who will represent the Government at a conference of the European Economic and Social Committee. The seventh question under number 1106/16-2-2018 from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first question under number 1144/26-2-2018, the first question from the Member of Parliament, Ioannina, the Radical Left Coalition.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation of incurable diseases in the Single Table for the Identification of Disabled Percentages", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Member. Mrs. Jufi is sworn to the State Secretary now, and she is therefore not here. The first question will be discussed under number 1145/26-2-2018 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Chania Coalition of the Radical Left, Evangelia Vagonakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures to improve the tactics program in the Regional Unit of Chania". The Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Red. Please, Mrs Vagonakis, develop your question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u3	Minister, olive cultivation is a key pillar for productive reconstruction in Greece and much more, this is a big issue for Crete. Cretan olive oil is distinguished for its quality and for its organoleptic characteristics. Therefore, the issue of the Dactyloscopic Program is very important, given these issues. I would like to stress that in the last period, the DAC has been devalued by producers, given that there are reduced budgets, but there is also a delay in launching these programmes. This results in many producers making uncontrolled progress in applying individual cover, with wet trees with insecticides, with very negative results for the environment and for the health of consumers, but also for the quality of oil itself. Based on the available data, which this year's period in the Regional Unit of Chania, more tampering than in previous years, which combined with the high temperatures, which were in the autumn, led to an increase in the acidity of olive oil. As is clear from the reports by the relevant geopsies and other scientific bodies in the region, concrete measures are proposed to be taken immediately to improve this. I would like to stress the 'direct' because, Minister, I think there must be a holistic approach to the issue of homicide, with radical changes in the way it is being done at the moment. As far as the immediate measures are concerned, I think there is a need to increase the bait sprays, at least six, timely recruitment of seasonal staff, sectorial and geopolitics, and to increase their number, as well as their location in time. In June, it must be there, which means that at the end of March, the placements must have been made. I also think it is very important to rationalise and collect 2%, which producers pay for the olive-flowers, because it is noted that many times producers pay, but not all of this comes to public funds. Finally, there is the need for an early supply of plant protection products and an increase in the funds for the Chania programme to EUR 2 million. I mean, while there is a small increase - as far as I can see - in relation to the figures of all Greece, in Chania last year we had 1,700 and 1,700 this year. I say this because, for example in Lassithi, where it has less than a million trees, we have about the same money, that is, they take Chania and Lassithi. I'm not saying it because Lassithi needs to get less, but I want to stress that Chania wants to get more. I have no rivalry with Lassithi. To conclude, Mr President and Minister, I would like you to answer these questions: what do you intend to do in relation to an increase in the budget? What measures do you intend to take in order to carry out the recruitment of staff in a timely manner and to increase their number? What measures do you intend to take in order to obtain a timely supply of the protective material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Kokkalis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. I agree with and commend the quality of Cretan olive oil. As far as the fight against forests is concerned, I have to say: According to Law No.3852/2010 - it is the law known as 'Kallikrates' - under Article 178 that the implementation of the tactics programme has been fully transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. The relevant appropriations shall be included in central own resources and shall be assigned annually to the regions. By joint decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance, adopted on a proposal from the Association of the Regions of Greece, the amount of appropriations intended to cover investment and operational expenditure, including those relating to the forest control programme, shall be fixed. The Ministry of Interior this year has adopted a decision, on February 1, 2018, on ‘the distribution of EUR 20,1000.000 in regions of the country to cover the costs of tombs’. For the Region of Crete the amount of EUR 7 million was allocated. We are aware, however, of the importance of this, that it is possible to reallocate the appropriations by regional section, depending on the programme report and on the dynamics of spending. Probably, in a border county, the problem is less pronounced. The region of Crete knows that better. It is therefore possible to reallocate the appropriations. As far as the Ministry of Rural Development is concerned, it is already responsible for supplying the tendering procedure. We expect, within the days, to register an amount of EUR 5 million in the procurement procedure for the supply of toddler materials for 2018. We have already done the papers and are waiting within the days. By June we will be absolutely ready. As far as the cover of seasonal staff is concerned, I'll answer my dentistry. The resources - credits are therefore from the Ministry of Interior with a proposal from the Committee of the Regions and the redistribution is possible by regional unit, after consultation in the region of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr Vagonakis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u7	It would, of course, be more interesting if you could reply to me on the subject of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u8	I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u9	Okay. You'll answer me later. I hope that everything will go well in this respect, except for the issue of medicines. I would like to focus on the issue of appropriations. I know that the money, which you receive as a percentage of 2% of producers, is much less than what the state complements. However, I think there is room to increase this amount by a better control. Of course, this may not only concern your Ministry, but also the other ministries. Our assessment and assessment of the olive-growing municipalities of Crete is that the system does not work properly to bring the money from the mill to the national koruna. Watch me, Minister. I have tabled a relevant question in the past. It is observed that olive groves should receive 2% and their yields to the state should not be in line with the producer price, but with the intervention price. That means the state itself loses enough money from this story. I believe that you have the opportunity to streamline all these things. It's just a matter of that. The second issue. I think there should be better coordination between the ministries. Three ministries are involved. You guys are involved in the Treasury, and the Ministry of Interior is involved. Recently, on the 27th of the month, a meeting of the olive-growing municipalities was held in Crete and a special body was proposed for the tacosy in the standards of the old oil producers' protection fund. It's a proposition. Maybe it's not the best. In any case, you need to find a way of better coordination, rationalisation and the best measures, which will improve the lives of olive growers and give new momentum to our product, which is olive oil, which I consider to be at least a national product.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u10	The Undersecretary, Mr. Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, as far as the appropriations are concerned, I think it has been cleared up. It belongs exclusively to the Ministry of Interior. The documents, which exist and are available to you, show that this year we have moved much more time in terms of the torch control programme and the tender and the recruitment of staff. Already January 9, 2018, the Plant Protection Directorate, whose responsibility I am responsible, has called for the recruitment of seasonal personnel. It followed again from the same service on 15 February 2018 the document to the competent Human Resources Management Directorate requesting to proceed with the necessary recruitment procedures for seasonal personnel of the 2018 Tuberculosis Programme in order to allow for the timely and effective implementation of the programme. Let me remind you that two years ago these documents were at least March. Since the beginning of January, we have gone ahead with the procedures. Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mrs Mathioudakis are also accredited to sign the draft joint ministerial decision on the recruitment of seasonal staff so that we can all be ready in the next quarter for the forest control programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u12	You should transfer responsibility to the region to end the case rather than to have three ministries involved in this story and not to have a homicide. It's a transfer of authority. Just stuff. Instead of coordinating, transferring responsibility and ending. Are you making the competition for the region's credit? Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u13	Please, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u14	Excuse me, Mr. President. Because of Cretan solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u15	Because of locality. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committees on Social Affairs and Production and Trade present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Provisions for the Production of Final Products of Cannabis". The second is the 1135/22-2-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Doras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The government is judging the Ionian. Risks to the new Marine Zone Agreement with Albania.’ Please, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Good month. I'm glad the Minister of Foreign Affairs found the way to answer the House. I would be very pleased if this were a good sign, so that the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy will also inform the House of the dangerous tension in Greek-Turkish, but also of the course of negotiations in Skopje. I'll come to the point now. In 2009, Mr President, after two years of consultation with Albania, we signed a joint agreement on the demarcation of maritime zones, a balanced and mutually beneficial agreement which applied exemplarily the principle of the middle line, despite what was happening at intervals on the Albanian side. It created a positive precedent, which - unfortunately - caused intervention by third countries that disagreed with the spirit of this agreement. In the meantime, some say that there was a problem and there was a problem, because the constitutional court of Albania intervened, but we will discuss this, and that it was not time for the Greek Parliament to ratify the agreement in the quarter of that summer because we went to elections. However, today the government seems, in the Albanian press articles, to discuss secretly with Albania a revision of the agreement, which meets Albanian requirements. After all, Minister, you mentioned at some point that the 2009 agreement had wronged Albania. You seem prepared to dismantle the positive framework, which was set up in 2009, while Albania is talking about the new agreement today. The non-implementation of the agreement at that time is, of course, due to political developments in the neighbouring country. Today, however, we are gathering information from the Albanian President's published letter, because we do not have any information. Firstly, the President will not only grant authority to sign such agreements, but will be authorised in advance by the negotiating group. Secondly, it raises a matter of land borders, as the Albanian constitutional court said. I ask: has this been raised in the debates? Thirdly, Mr Meta adds with energetic red lines to the negotiation, demanding a correction of the average line chosen in 2009 and proposing the delimitation to take place with the principle of irresponsibility. I would remind you that the 2009 agreement follows the average line throughout the region demarcation, giving full influence to the Greek islands. Does the government intend to follow the principle of subsidiarity instead of the average line? Are we aware that such manipulations risk creating a negative precedent for future demarcations in other maritime areas of the country? I fear that we are dealing with this with irresponsibleness and, unfortunately, once again, Minister, without the necessary consultation with the political forces, we are ready to accept cancellation of the agreement that we signed in 2009. I would like to ask, first of all, whether you intend to inform the Greek Parliament? Secondly, what is the negotiating group, which is currently negotiating with Albania? Thirdly, do your Easter visit with Mr. Tsipras in Albania have a basis for signing such an agreement? Fourthly, what are you going to do with the statement by the Albanian President, who is now prejudicing the outcome of the negotiations, calling essentially for the correction of the average line, based on the principle of openness? Finally, the Albanian President is asking for the draft agreement to be given to the table. What's the plan, Minister? Is it Albanian? Is it in common? Is it Greek? And in any case, is the Greek political world not entitled, the political parties, to know what the government's intentions are on such a major issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister Kotzias will answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u18	I am pleased that Mrs Bakoyannis has returned to her well-known foreign policy parties and I always look forward to a good understanding and cooperation. My ministry is always open at any time, for a specific briefing that can't be made public. I'm at your disposal whenever you want. Secondly, it is not good to draw conclusions on foreign policy from the publications either of the press in Greece or of the Albanian press. What is certain is that, at the moment, the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in dispute with the President of Albania, as far as the type of delegation he will give is concerned. And it is clear from Albania that the authority that Mr Meta will give and the guidelines will be the decisions of the constitutional court. The decisions of the Albanian Constitutional Court are neither appropriate nor appropriate nor something to which we shall discipline. We have an agreement which, in your opinion, is extremely interesting, except that it has been an agreement which has not been implemented for ten years. It's a ghost deal. Five months after her signature, you as government had not brought her for ratification. The reason why, I can't understand it. Five months. You know Parliament well, you are an old parliamentarian, you should have brought it for ratification. The next PASOK government, which you judged in an interview with you in 2010, did not even bring it for ratification. And then came the Samara government of your party, which was three years of government and refused to ratify it. And you ask me why it has not been ratified or what have I done with this agreement? Twice you have ruled during the potential implementation of the agreement and the twice that you have governed have refused - as a government, not personally - to implement this decision, which is a ghost, essentially. Why is he a ghost? Because it was not implemented by the same governments that signed it. Why wasn't it applied? You could have brought her to the House for ratification before she went to Albania's constitutional court. Once he went to Albania's constitutional court, the whole case was found in a dead end. That's the truth. For we are right to defend the existing agreement, which you have signed, those who are right with their own constitutional court cannot circumvent the constitutional court's decisions. So we have three options: one is to hack into an agreement, which was never ratified by those who signed it and go for the next fifty years, so that Greece and Albania can not make use of their EEZ. The second is that the Albanians should try to accept the decisions of their constitutional court, which is not the case, because we have not lost any conflict with which we must be forced to apply the judgments of third-country courts. And the third is to look for whether or not there is a technical way of correcting technical issues. Our opinion is that a real deal is a thousand times better than a Ghost agreement. We must therefore see how we get out of the blockade, which exists between two sides, which for ten years have not made progress in the process of creating a non-agreement - a ghost, but a real agreement. The agreement - to explain - concerns 9% of the maritime zone between Greece and Albania. It is a million-thousand-hundred thousand-hundred thousand-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-help belt, and is left with a robe that is about 9% of the marine zone. This is what we need to find out whether there are technical issues or not. We'll see about that. For Mr Meta must first authorize the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then proceed with the implementation of this Ministry. I do not want to comment on a point of order, which your party is constantly saying about secret negotiations. The negotiation and debate we are having on Albania, on all the problems that exist from the past, is conducted by a group of ten people, the eight of whom are servants, the outstanding nature of international legal thought and the tenth cartographer. He is the Secretary-General who participates, the First Political Director, the Director-General of A3, the Managing Director of A', the diplomatic director of my diplomatic office, the information officer, Mr Liakuras, who is from the Scientific Council responsible for this case and the mappers. There's not a single personal partner from my political office and there's no non-service worker. I say this in contrast to what has happened in the past. Because in the past we have seen, by Mr Gryllakis, who was a man of the ETUC, from secretly negotiating the Macedonian until the negotiation that took place - I do not know if you know it - in 2014 for all agreements with Albania, which was made by a member of your party, who was not responsible for the issues of relations with Albania and the zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mrs Dora Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u20	I listened carefully to the Minister, but I cannot say that I received an answer. I have to say that the only answer I understand is that the negotiation team is the ten staff. Let me remind you, Minister, that this agreement has the stamp of George Savvaid. I don't suppose you'll ever call him a non-violent person. In any case, the negotiation was only made by foreign ministry officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u21	'14...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u22	'14 wasn't, I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u23	The New Democracy was a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u24	It wasn't me and I don't know how to answer you. But what I know is that at the moment the Greek parties do not know what the content is and what your aim is. You have now told me that you were in favour of this agreement, regardless of whether you consider it a ghost agreement today. Does that mean the middle line? Do you come in with that logic? That's very important to know what we're talking about. Because you had made the statement that Albania was wronged. In my opinion, however, this is unfair. Because in 2009 Greece took seven hundred eighteen square kilometres and Albania was seven hundred sixty eight, because of the relief. Secondly, the Agreement was fully in line with the Law of the Sea and the permanent Greek position of the middle line. Both parties chose it, both for the delimitation of territorial waters, following Article 15 of the UNCLOS and for the delimitation of the continental shelf and future EEZ. A full influence on the Greek islands was recognised, which is permitted by International Law and thus created a very positive precedent for Greece. Thirdly, the turn of the Albanian side, Mr Minister, is not, as you well know, due to the fact that Greece has expressed its satisfaction with the agreement. As you have rightly said, it is because of the constitutional court's decisions, which, however, have a political reason, because Mr Rama's opposition then disagreed with the agreement on domestic consumption. So Albania was not deceived by this agreement. The average line was accepted by the Albanians and signed by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. And come to one last, which, in my opinion, is important. The Court of Justice of the Law of the Sea recently decided on the continental shelf of Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire, following the middle line, without discounts. I consider it important, because we have the possibility of using this as an argument. Anyway, let me finish. Now that you are coming - I hope - to the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy of the House behind closed doors, as requested by the New Democracy, you will be making a serious briefing, as I hope, on the course of Skopje and on the negotiation of Skopje and on the tension in Greek-Turkish relations and the problems we face in Cyprus, because we must also know what your objectives are. I don't know if you'll succeed them, but I want to know how you come to review this agreement. I want to know, in other words, if you come by the middle line, if you insist on it, if what we have always known at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is even today. Finally, I should like to say a sentence which might be useful to you, Minister. The Law of the Sea says that the agreements must have 'equitable results', i.e. balanced results. The Albanian court erroneously linked the ‘equitable’ to ‘equity’, i.e. directly. This is a mistake, which may be due to the lack of English, but the substance of the case is that it is another argument for the Greek side. And when we say secret diplomacy, Minister - it is very simple - we mean that there is no information for the political forces in the Greek Parliament. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has never spent a period in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not inform opposition parties about issues of national interest. Never! Your answer that you will welcome me and buy me coffee at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u25	No coffee!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u26	No coffee, good! Your answer is flattering, but it is not enough. The serious information is given to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and it is incomprehensible that the former Parliamentary Republic of the region operates in a way which is less favourable than this Parliamentary Republic of Albania.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Of course, I will not underestimate the Hellenic Republic and the Parliamentary Republic like you. I hope you will reconsider your last sentence. I guess he was unfortunate. With regard to informing the parties, I hoped that you would be a member of the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy and you will know that next Tuesday, that is, five days from today, it is a scheduled meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u29	Now we're learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u30	It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u31	Until a moment ago I asked, I didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u32	It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u33	We started well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Bakoyannis, my request is once to let me speak without having the need for my nervous interruption. That's nice of you. You will know that on Tuesday we have a meeting at the request of your party. Your party's letter does not refer to Skopje, it refers to Cypriot and Greek Turkish. We will be pleased to hear from the new Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus, who is on an official visit. The first official visit he makes, in my opinion, is in Greece. Therefore, for the Cyprus issue you will have direct information from the Cyprus Minister for Foreign Affairs himself and what is needed for the Aegean - which is the second part of your party's request - I will intervene and speak. The others haven't put them. Skopje hasn't put it in. It says 'incidentally also for Albania', but it is not here. Secondly, there are many decisions. The latter, which concerns Nicaragua and Costa Rica, is extremely beneficial to our country. To have no insecurity on the officer's part that we are not studying these. You know we have an excellent Scientific Council, headed by Professor Rosakis, who is the best in the Aegean. I know your party officials often consult and ask, to clarify many of their questions. As far as the influence is concerned, we certainly do not go to the negotiation to change the influence of 100%, both in the Ottomans and in the south-east of Corfu. I would simply remind you that the legal problem that exists internationally is that the Greek side of the continental shelf agreed with Italy agreed to 70% on the Ottoon continental shelf. So don't blame us. Look back at the texts and your own governments' agreements and you will understand where the problem is. As far as the constitutional court of the friendly country of Albania is concerned, it is their domestic case, it commits us nothing. The technical issue that exists is with the bastion lines of the tricks, not with the middle line. You need to look at the agreement again, we must all look at it again if what is noted on the Albanian side is not taken into account, that the base line in the bay has not been taken into account, it is true, and if Albania has actually submitted maps, on base lines within the UN, which were not disputed by the then two-party governments at all, which is a question for me, because the base lines, which Albania had previously submitted to the UN, have not been called into question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u35	Albania had signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u36	When a country presents them, ma'am, to the UN, the Greek Government, in this case of interest, is required to put the opposing party within the UN. You have not done so and you have allowed an action by Albania to be consolidated. It's your omission. It is also your omission - and I repeat - that you have not ratified immediately after the signing of this Agreement. And I still do not understand why your government, because the PASOK government, because the New Democracy - PASOK government, not only did not sign and ratify this agreement, but came back in 2014 into secret consultations with the Albanian side for the whole of the agreements. I can see you don't know that. That shows how secret they were. The last thing I'm going to talk about is the secret diplomacy. In the first semester of the university, what students learn is what secret diplomacy is. Secret diplomacy is the agreements between two or more States at the expense of a third party, which occur and are implemented at conflict times. They are the agreements, for example, that had been made before World War I, are the agreements before World War II.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u37	Don't insult us like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u38	You always have a nervousness to hear my opinion. Secondly, it is secret agreements that are done outside the legal procedures of the state. Your party was the model. I'll remind you again. There have been negotiations with Albania with an institutional player, but not with the Albanian and the EEZ, there have been negotiations on Skopje with an ex-EU agent. We don't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, can I say a phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u41	Mrs Bakoyannis, despite the lack of tritology, I will give you the floor. Don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u42	Minister, just a minute. When I was informing Mr. Kotzia, Mr. Tsipras about the course of the Skopje negotiations, then I don't know if you were at SYRIZA or PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u43	I'm neither right now nor SYRIZA nor PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u44	...but, in any case, if you ask the Prime Minister, he will tell you that the negotiation we made at the time was in his knowledge, in the knowledge of all the parties of the Opposition. So I call on you to do the same, Mr Kotzia, to inform the opposition fully. These issues are not handled by a party. The nation handles them. And the nation is present today in the Greek Parliament. So they're not yours. In my opinion, you should inform us. I don't doubt you're a professor and you know everything. However, perhaps the view of the rest of the parties plays a part in such negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u45	Minister, there will be no discussion. I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u46	I am very pleased that Mrs Bakoyannis, with her position, corrects her view that we are worse than Albania as a Parliament, corrects what New Democracy has done in the past. I must also remind her that for Skopje you have been thoroughly informed as a party by the government's own President, Alexis Tsipras, all the opposition parties have been informed, even though your party has had difficulties in going and discussing the matter effectively. But that is your party problem. That is why I told you that I was pleased to see that you returned to foreign policy issues. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, there is another question for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u49	The Minister said that because of an exceptional obstruction, he must leave. So, in fact, if you want, I will give you the floor, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but that is what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to say that I was notified this morning that the Minister will come to answer a timely question from the Golden Dawn. We have seen that she answered Mrs Bakoyannis and now she is gone and is not answering us and, indeed, on a subject which is very serious. We're not talking, of course, about the name. There are other issues that really accompany this huge issue. The question I had tabled and I expected a reply from the Minister was about the existence of the Greek national minority in Skopje. The issue has also been raised in another committee by Mr Cassidyris, and then the Minister said that there is no Greek minority and something so strange. I repeat, however, that this is a very serious matter. I saw the Minister leave here. In fact, this is an unacceptable attitude of the Minister. In particular, it offends the Greek citizens who want to know about this and, of course, also offend the Greeks in Skopje. To say here that because we are in constant contact with clubs, with bodies, with unions, the position of Golden Dawn is fixed, on the subject of the name. We do not accept any name that the term 'Macedonia' exists, nor any geographical definition, nor above, nor below, nor east, nor west. We do not accept anything, which contains the term 'Macedonia'. To say this once again, to be heard in Parliament. Anything else will contain the term "Macedonia" for us is a national minority, and those who will commit it in this way will be treated. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I am sorry about the Minister's behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u51	The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Provisions for the Production of Final Products of Cannabis". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 February 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u53	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Pallis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, after a concentrated and substantial dialogue with all the parties involved, we are pleased today to debate the bill on the production of cannabis medicinal products in plenary. For the first time, the SYRIZA Government meets a social demand. Recognises the needs of patients, distinguishes the global prospects for cannabis medicinal products and tries methodically to change the legislative framework. In other words, it regulates a reality. I was delighted to conclude by the debate on the relevant committees that the vast majority of Greek Members are absolutely convinced of the medical and pharmaceutical value of cannabis. So the first shot was overrun. I won't take any more time arguing about it. This bill is a developmental move, which is also expected to provide affordable medical care for people in need. We are exploiting and exploiting the comparative advantages of our country, the climate and territorial conditions, together with the proximity of the rapidly growing European market. There is no single institutional framework at European Union level. Each State has established its own treatment framework for cannabis in the medical field, mainly due to differences in the degree of criminalisation of cannabis. In any case, no state ignores the dominant trend that has been shaped. Nowadays in Europe four models are applied on the market of cannabis medicinal products in combination with each other: imported preparations, production and marketing under state control, hemp clubs, self-production. This is all and everything, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time in Greece today, the cultivation, production and movement of hemp and its preparations are the sole responsibility of the state. However, the conditions of the state monopoly are suffocating. They do not serve the needs of patients, do not ensure the availability, accessibility, and reasonable cost of substances. They do not make use of the pharmaceutical development prospects of cannabis. They do not help attract investment, create new labour markets and, of course, strengthen exports. What the government prefers and I present to you is a model of private production under strict government control. While the state monopoly is withdrawn, the business is regulated and strictly controlled by the State. This draft law amends Law 4139/2013 on addictive substances so that hemp is exempted from certain provisions for the substances listed in Table B, its cultivation and processing for the production of medicinal products and the research is specifically regulated and decentralised. Other natural persons will now be able to produce, transport, store, process hemp varieties, of the kind Cannabis Sativa L, with a tetrahydrocannabinol content exceeding 0,2% for the production of hemp medicinal products. The approval of the activity shall be granted to a particular person and shall be non-transferable while the awards to contractors in the production line shall be excluded. He is responsible for a particular person. Within Greece the products will only be available on the State monopoly through which patients will be granted. Exports of the manufactured products by specific procedure from specific exit points to Thessaloniki and Piraeus are authorised. Only vertically integrated units with a minimum area of four acres are permitted. Production will be completely controlled and there will be no need to move the raw materials. Everything will happen within the walls. Only packaged products will come out of the facility. Strict quality standards and standards for the production of products are ensured. Close greenhouses are required, although they increase the budget of any investment. In this way, the production conditions of the plant are fully controlled, and the production capacity of these areas is maximised. Control and security measures (fractions, cameras, photocells) will be certified by local police departments. The entire crop and production system shall be adapted to facilitate state control and not escape raw materials and products outside the scope of the pharmaceutical cannabis. Specific conditions will be provided for by a joint ministerial decision. They are technical elements that do not need to be the subject of the law. A review of all the conditions and conditions laid down will be carried out annually. Details of the granting of the approval, submission of supporting documents, misunderstandings, production specifications, processing, storage and safety, seed import, regular and extraordinary checks and other relevant matters will be regulated by ministerial decisions. This draft law outlines the scope for a new market, while at the same time authorising the relevant ministries to regulate the individual issues that will arise. The shape must be flexible. We cannot get locked up in lengthy legislative procedures on technical issues. The development dimension of this bill meets the intention of actively entering the market for cannabis medicinal product. Its social dimension and care for patients is the ultimate purpose. It is worth noting that the Ministry of Health, which is the speedy one in this bill, is already working towards the introduction of specific regulations. The aim is to provide these medicinal products through e-prescription, patients’ registers, registries, and treatment protocols that will be created. Disease is associated with the medicinal product and treatment. However, the key point is that with scientific research, which will start reasonably in our country, we will acquire the necessary and additional knowledge, which is currently lacking due to the uncontrolled use of cannabis medicinal products. Therefore, with this knowledge we will now be able to take further steps towards progression on the basis of the benefit of patients and their access to appropriate treatment. Even the latest reservations will be made. Each next step will be based on the results of the Greek research centres. The teachers and researchers of Greek universities we heard in committees were clear. They're ready to explore all prospects. Colleagues, the work that needs to be done is still enough. This bill only makes the beginning of a subject that until yesterday was considered taboo. Greece cannot be absent from what is happening in the world. Whether this will be an opportunity for our country will prove to be along the way. We, each time, have to create the right institutional framework. I believe this bill is in this direction. That is why I recommend the vote in favour of the bill and call for the Civic Opposition once again, on the basis of their own perception, which is a corollary of all of us, in relation to the medicine, the use of the medicine and the need for patient access, but also the country's development perspective, to review its position and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-nine students and students and four educational sessions of the House since the 13th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vlasi. Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u56	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly impressed once again with the sloppyness you are bringing a bill to this House and the fact that you are once again getting a serious project in which we could almost all agree, turn it into a communication firework, which makes us not only doubt your intentions, but we really are concerned about whether or not what you are bringing them together or simply bring them out of incompetence and you cannot make them better. I start by saying that you bring a bill without any public consultation. And I wonder: is there such pressure so quickly, without consultation, one that we all agree on? In fact, you are bringing it into a context that is completely unclear, totally handy, referring everything to common ministerial decisions. You know what? As a party of the Officerate-General, as a New Democracy, we have shown these three and a half years - to highlight it, three and a half years - that you are a government that we agree on. And there are a lot of bills that we have voted on, unlike you that, when Antonis Samaras was Prime Minister, you didn't vote for anything, putting your tiny interests above. So we have come and seen this bill again. We see, however, that other things are behind you. To make it clear, therefore, that today's bill does not talk about the use of cannabis, it speaks of its production. And I mention this, because you are trying to go out to the world - and we see it in various literature that is friendly to you - that the New Democracy is fearful, does not want to vote for patients. Look, our position is clear, Minister. We are in favour of using cannabis for exclusive uses. After all, we are not voting on this today. With a joint ministerial decision, which you made on 29-6-2017, there is access for patients to the Indian cannabis. That's clear. But what do you guys do now? You bring a bill, which refers solely to the production of Indian cannabis in Greece. And here, again, in principle, we can agree. Because after all, we are a liberal party, which has anything to do with business in the first place. What do you do, though? You bring it up hand in hand and all you refer to your own decisions. So, let us point out now that cannabis medicine first of all is a medicine which does not work healing, works for analgesia and for improving the quality of patients. In that we are also in agreement, we are with you, even though there are very few who need them in Greece. We're standing next door to those few of us. They have this access and you can strengthen it. Sadly, however, you are pretentiously bringing these patients on the back of these patients. Why yesterday, if you heard the bodies, what did all these patients say? Nobody was talking about commerce. Nobody knew we were talking about commerce. They were talking about the use we all agree on. On a pretext, then, you bring the bill supposedly for developmental reasons and economic benefits. In fact, it is the first investment published by the SYRIZANELs - and it is that of the drug cannabis after three and a half years. So you bring the draft law and bring the simple world to say other than others. We would say yes if the conditions and the framework were there, but unfortunately you have not brought them. We say no to the law the clipboard, the unclear, without any framework, which you bring. We must make it clear that last week, when this bill came to committee, we have set the conditions under which we wanted to vote on such a bill. We put them early. We have raised our reservations, precisely because we do not agree in principle. I will now mention what our reservations and remarks are. There are no insurance controls to comply with the maintenance requirements of the crop, plant, processing plant. You say that the check will be carried out by the subordinated departments today. Explain to us, when the policemen who exist cannot effectively control, why are they few, the intrusion - you know from her very well - the thefts and what happens, what we all see around us, you invite them to do what? To take over and control of a free, free-limited, Indian cannabis crop? You're not telling us if there are any spatial conditions. Is it allowed to be next to a settlement? Is it allowed to be next to schools? Is it allowed to be next door to hospitals? Nothing's mentioned. You're telling us it's a closed farming area. Will it be greenhouse or indoor farming? There is no commitment to quantifying production and to how it will be absorbed. When large quantities are produced, where will they be kept, how will they be kept, for how long? You're putting a five-year limit on it. Are we going to fill the warehouses, for example, throughout Greece with cannabis drugs? The quantities to be exported will be exclusively for medical use or will the company give it - abroad I say - and for entertainment? That's not what it's called inside either. The final product will tell us what it is? In all countries of the world, it is defined that the final product is this. Because it's not the same from country to country. You also say this in general, to retrospectively decide, possibly along with Mr Karanika, who is the instigator of the whole project, what this product is. Why don't you follow the model of other states, what is happening in Cyprus, in the Czech Republic, in Italy, in Germany? I'm not telling you we're going to find out that the earth is round. Find a model and bring it here. Our neighboring Cyprus brings a bill of sixty pages, describing everything from the beginning to the end, and you bring us five pages, leaving everything in the mist. You're talking about the investment of billions. Where are the studies on the investment of billions? Have you brought us some studies that show us what the market needs? And after all, did you suddenly see the first time left government in Greece, did you realize that it is so big the market in the world - which no one has understood, of course, in the world - and you said 'we are going to have pharmaceutical cannabis all over Greece'? We're still waiting for the studies. Informing the world has not been done at all. You're talking about a terrible syndrome. Do you support them in this way, when you have not informed the public at all, when you have not told the doctors how they will prescribe, when you have not come out to say anything about what medicine cannabis means, what cannabis for euphoric, entertainment? Of course, it seems to us that there is neither an opinion adopted by the Committee on Planning and Coordination we have to deal with drugs. There is no framework. Again, we have joint ministerial decisions. We have contempt and ambiguity on my part. In many, however, - and believe me not few - it seems that all of this can be a pretext or a premeditated arrangement. So is the massiveness of the draft law a liberation of cannabis for euphoric use, for the well-known hashish? I say, no. Maybe it isn't. I'm taking your side and saying it's not. It's just, there's a lot of suspects on the contrary. And your executives are the ones that go out all the time and talk about the complete decriminating of the hashish and bringing it over for euphoric, entertaining process. Why don't you bring it here? Why don't you bring it into public consultation? Why don't you bring it as a bill, if you want it so badly, that everyone can sit down? I have listened very carefully to what the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, said, which, if you notice, your own members applauded with great intensity. I accept all this. But we should come over and talk about it. Don't hide. We heard the agencies yesterday. I'll stay in three, four objections. Mrs Chiga, the President of the National Council against Drugs, commented: 'Insufficient and not valid and timely information'. ‘Considerable the existence of enterprises under this bill’. "Principally friendly to your Government," said Mrs. Chiga, I did not say it, "...they say that you want to lead the whole release of hashish." Athens Bar Association: "There are no insurance checks". Mrs Maridakis, who you put it and is the First Vice-President of the EOF, said: 'There is an institutional gap'. Ms. Papoutsoglu, the National Coordinator for Drugs, said: “I have read the bills of other countries, a page of a hundred fifty, a hundred sixty pages, but the first time I see this. There must be strict conditions and specifications for the sale to controlled doctors, to certain doctors..." - we see none of this - "...Strict conditions and requirements for hygiene conditions. Provision should be made for buildings, equipment, seeds, development material, cultivation, harvesting, primary processing, packaging, storage and distribution. There is nothing." They all went through the agencies yesterday. I guess you didn't hear anything. We therefore call on you, at the very last moment, to take the bill back and bring it right. Include all the joint ministerial decisions that you say you will bring in second year. Bring them in and put them in the draft law to see what is what you have in the back of your mind and don't tell us. Tell us what these are, anyway, that Mr. Caranikas advises you and tells you to put, but you don't have the power to put them here today. Then we'll vote for it. Tell people and public opinion. Tell me about the negatives, 'cause now we're talking about patients who need this medicine. But tell us, and what are the side effects that may occur in relation to schizophrenia and various psychosomatic symptoms. Inform the world. Inform and train the doctors, because we, too, don't know everything. But let us know, there are experts on these things. Adopt absolute terms and conditions of administration. Quantitate the process and create a clear sales process framework. Do this. That's the obvious thing, Minister. I'm not telling you anything special. I'm telling you what's happening everywhere in the world. Do all this and bring it here to the vote together. The pressure and speed of implementation of this rough bill unfortunately strengthens society's prejudices. Sure, can I tell you something? I understand. After you have solved all the rest, it makes sense in such a fast space and fast, less than a week, to want to deal with cannabis. And this is probably what you want to leave as a government reserve, of course, along with the transfer of Macedonia's name, an unnecessarily memorable memorandum, a hundred billion more on the Greek citizen's back after this "heroic" negotiation of yours. You know what? Unfortunately, you do not leave a window for the use of cannabis. Leave open balconies. If Mr. Karanikas wants Greece to do as he has in his mind, an endless battalion, we, for us and for our children, will not allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much. The special speaker of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that I was surprised at both the first and the opening meeting of the joint committees, with the urgency of the government discussing the next morning, Friday morning, with the institutions, and to proceed with the adoption of the law, as I was surprised to see it, on the next day of the debate in the committees, in fact with the urgency procedure - which is why this is really - without the drafting of the bill being described as urgent. I really don't get it. The truth is, to start where Mr. Vlassi stopped, that the sloppyness of the bill and the level of maturation are such that one is actually tempted to say "children, take it back and bring it back to work", not only because this is why prejudices and fears cannot be cultivated, but also to see the real positions of the New Democracy. Because no matter how well-processed we look at the bill, I'm sure the New Democracy would not vote for it, since these are pretexts in sins. There are other reasons why the New Democracy does not want to be involved in the legalisation of the medicinal cannabis, because that is what this is all about. We are talking about a scientific issue with serious ethical implications. We are not talking about the use of cannabis in general, we are not talking about the legalisation of drug use in general. It's data. And I think the back door and first step towards legalising drugs have no place at all. The New Democracy attitude is hypocritical. It seems that the liberalism of some is particularly uncertain and, in the early difficulties, the hard face of a populist and reactionary right, which dominates and gives the step, unfortunately, to the conservative party with results - and that seems to be - to the transgenders today and to many other positions. On the other hand, I was really saddened by the JRC's violent reaction to an issue that is specific. Like I said, it's the drug use of cannabis. His positions have been known since. They are the well-known conservative positions of the JRC since it condemned drugs and rebetica and rock music. But in any case, violence in this particular matter, on the subject of drug use, has really surprised me and saddened me. It's indeed a sensitive issue. We can't hide behind our finger. Is that right? It is a question that is well-founded fears and prejudices, which make the issue a thorny and difficult one. That is why we are saying that there should also be greater attention and a greater degree of maturity and attention. But we must indeed avoid screaming and populism. We must avoid hypocrisy. Furthermore, in order to open up the issue - because we do not want to, the debate goes on a package - of using Indian cannabis in general as a topic, we must avoid hypocrisy. Hypocrisy means, on the one hand, not wanting to recognise a problem that exists, a problem that is widespread and, on the other, falling on the other end of hypocrisy, called false progress. For those who confuse progressive policy with freedom are also hypocritical and unrealistic. We are not discussing the issue of drug liberalisation because it is a trend because it is a fashion, because it is progressive and it is not the question of whether we are in favour or against the use of addictive substances. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber and in society as a whole who is in favour of the use of addictive substances and the creation of the well-known situations that we know. The dilemma is whether we are in favour or against the protection of the life and safety of our children and those who are involved or may be involved in them, whether we can better prevent and deal with the problems, stop the diffusion of these substances or not. And it is not on the basis of progressiveity or conservatism on the double I am progressive - I am conservative, but above all on the basis of efficiency and whether these policies are effective. On this basis we have to have the debate on whether the policies that we have today as a country and, more generally, on the treatment of addictive substances - and these are the alcohol that is legitimised - is nicotine, which is also legal - are effective policies or whether we have to change them, amend them with something more effective. That's the question. Mr Papandreou made an excellent position on the war against drugs yesterday and on the way he is actually being lost in favour of the barons at planetary level. And that is now a conversation that is taking place and we have to do it here and we have to do it without prejudice. To close the parenthesis of drug use in general, because it is a matter of parentheses, and it is not a case of repression - it is something that must be for everyone in a smuggled environment, for all substances, in the same way for all countries - nor in general and vaguely liberation is a solution. And it is certainly not a progressive policy when it is not a specialist, it is not mature and it has not been discussed sufficiently and technologically and politically. Let's go back to the bill. I said from the outset that it concerns the use of cannabis alone. From now on, the debate on this is what is happening. There has been strong research evidence in the last decade, therefore, that indian cannabis derivatives, cannabinols, have significant action and help patients and, indeed, patients with severely ill, cancer patients who are doing chemotherapy mainly and patients with multiple sclerosis in heavy forms, in which there is dyskinesia, spasm and pain. That's for granted. It's proven. So, on this basis, I would like to take a parenthesis and say that there is no medicine that has no side effects and there is no medicine for the person who knows how to look for literature, which cannot find side effects or the opposite view of its action or anything. The scientific debate is always open, it is based on evidence, but it has some objections, fears and conflicts. But when there is a medicine that is available and can have a weak action - that is what I am going to say, because that is my personal perception, that cannabinols have weak action in the indications I have just mentioned - it is morally and scientifically unacceptable to deprive it, avoid it, just for reasons of prejudice, ideological perseverance or even worse - let me - on the basis of puppy and hypocrisy policy, which says that I do not want to interfere with it because it has a political cost. I do not think we can go along with this in general and specifically. So we are in favour of liberalising the use of Indian cannabis for medical reasons, for those patients who need it alone, even though, as I have said before, the bill is unacceptablely malicious and general. Unfortunately, as we have seen today, prejudice and hypocrisy are nourished by unclearness and blurredness. The more general, vague and incomplete is an institutional framework, the more easily it goes, the easier it is to find - if we want to find - the inconveniences, the more easily social faith is finally eroded on a subject. It is so unclear that, as I said before, one is tempted to say 'take it and bring it back to work'. We are inventing an institutional framework in the EOF at this time, as the Minister admitted yesterday. I am right to say that I, as well as an institutional framework for cultivation, one for processing and one for export. Only that's usually done until legalization. It is not after the legislation, as is the case here, because we are actually legislating on our political will to give as a medicine the Indian cannabis to Greek patients who are in need, in ways and methods that we will be discussing next. This is a political mistake. This is a procedure which is neither valid nor, above all, not timely. I said the day before that, the cultivation of cloning cannabis, which has nothing to do with substances, processes and difficulties has taken four to five years from the date of the vote until the first crop is put into the field. This will also be the case here, and I think that it is a very big problem with regard to the issue of the administration of medicines, that is to say, medicines. It became clear yesterday, in a very substantial discussion of bodies, that the IFO is unprepared. What pharmaceutical forms, what preparations, what cannabinols content in indian cannabinols, in which cannabinols, in what composition and in what way, all of this is unknown. We invent an institutional framework that we do not have. Nothing's finished. It does not specify who will write, how to write, how to prescribe, how to deal with non-medical products, such as dry form, oils. There is no provision and I say it again because I saw the Minister who kept a note yesterday. There are cannabinols that do not cause euphoria, but have medication. We heard yesterday that forty thousand acres of conventional agriculture, with the cloning cannabis, which has nothing to do with today - it is already growing - can only get into the crop tomorrow, as long as the current bill has provided that CPT, cannabinol which does not cause wellness - does not get high in the commonly known and has no other side effects - may start to separate and obtain pharmaceutical forms from tomorrow. It would be better if we had it already ready. It is a wishful task to be done by the afternoon. One hopes we can make it. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] How, then, will the EEO succeed with the existing legal framework, which, as well as the EEO and the Minister, is unprepared, start to license pharmaceutical forms and, above all, when? Why voting today on a bill which can start after one, two or three years is even absurd. Since all this is like this and we're single, why, at the same time, are we ignorant? Why don't we do the very simple thing that has been done in many countries in the world? People who are diagnosed with plaque or end-stage cancer, by CEPD or by a valid medical body - such a diagnosis is very easy to standardize and very difficult to forge - why do they not have the right to the legal possession of a small quantity or to the self-production of one, two plants? It is very simple, very reasonable and goes out of the process that, as I have said, will take years and is mainly concerned with industry - to say it all - and less to the patients, in the way it is legislated today. Why, then, are we also ignorant among others? Let's get through the crop. I'm going to make a few brief comments, because we've actually talked about it before. Mr. Vlassis, trying to get away from the trap and the suffering of cannabis drug, made an extensive reference to the weaknesses of the bill. That's right, I don't disagree. There are huge problems, I just point out, and I am saying: who will give permission? Three ministries are responsible and do not exist. Who will control the crop for whether it is certified, just to say examples, whether hemp is biological or not, whether Gramoxon falls that Nikos Papadopoulos knows is probably transferred to the user, etc.Huh? There's nothing. 'We'll see. There is no reference to spatial conditions. Where will these crops be? Is it going to be in specific fields, near towns, near schools? There are some issues which have not been clarified, such as who will be supervised by the production process, storage, etc. The bill says the specifications will be set in due course. I said before that that three to four years is the average time needed for this type of procedure on matters which are much less charged than the Indian cannabis. What does it mean to process? From the extract in the separation of cannabinols in purified form in the field, the difference in the amount of investment from one another is appalling. To extract a plant - and the Indian cannabis - which is a pot practically to say as simple as I can, and to separate medicinal substances clean in a way that is reproducible so that its quality can be reproduced and repeated, the cost is appalling. And what is the final product that will be produced and exported? Are they cannabinols? Is the CPT separated from the THC? Is the oil that is a precursor form? And what are we going to export? There are many people who say - and they have a strong argument - that what should be exported should be as far as possible a pill, that is, if possible, drops in bottles that have been certified and a medicine for the country to have a high percentage of added value. There are others who think more entrepreneurially about the way the state monopoly operates, whoever doesn't go in - and most of them won't go into the competition every two years, if he can't export everything, all possible forms, he will go bankrupt. It is an issue that we need to see. We haven't seen it. I say that the increase in the processing rate would be the best possible, in other words, not to be like olive oil, if we ever grow, to export brand names and specialized products. What phase? In what way? Pharmaceutical use - to close it - obliges us to vote on a bill that again has enormous weaknesses, is completely immature. We, too, have strong reservations, especially as to whether it is applicable in this way. We have a great deal of questions in how long the processing will be completed and what will come about in the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute, Mr President, to comment on the two amendments tabled last night. One concerns the EMS and the specifications. It is another example of a law that was passed in a rapid, forgotten and partly inapplicable way, because it admits that it cannot and cannot be done by a service such as EPA which was set up yesterday, to draw up specifications for a few tens of thousands of codes, which concern a few hundred thousand products. And so we return to the old sinful regime where everyone who publishes, compiles the specifications. This was the achilles heel of all previous supply systems and it is still, apparently, for the simple reason that the way it has been chosen to deal with is as weak and wrong as the previous ones. We'll talk about this some other time. That is the first amendment. I would like to say two more words about the second amendment. It concerns e-prescription and, finally, the possibility of intangible prescriptions. The comment is: Good to them if they're late! Electronic prescribing is an extremely good example of how well-designed electronic application can create real areas in public administration. It was planned to be paperless, incomplete, i.e. without papers, and at the same time it is a very good example of how the delay in the Greek State can bury a good application. From day one it could be intact, on one condition: the promotion of digital signatures and timeliness. From 2011 to 2017, all governments - and today - have been spectacularly and spectacularly failing to promote digital policy in public. For those you do not know, I will inform you that, as of 1 January 2018, all the decisions and documents of the public are typically void for the simple reason that the law passed by this government - and it is the third attempt - had dates 1 June 2017 and 1 January 2018. From 1-1-2018 no document that is not posted on the Internet with a valid digital signature and time marking is valid. There has been no amendment that admits defeat, weakness or gives more time. The truth is, however, that this government has done absolutely nothing so far for the transition to the digital era, which is necessary. We shall vote on the amendment on electronic prescribing. I don't know if you need a law. It is necessary to promote, complete the process of digital signature and timeline for doctors. I hope it will be done quickly, because it is indeed a measure that will also be made at all levels and promote controls and the process of prescribing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u59	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law, introduced today to be passed, is a bill which provides for the possibility of cultivating cannabis for medical, pharmaceutical use. It speaks of Cannabis Sativa L, with more than 0,2% D9-tetrahydrocannabinol. In practice, however, this draft law allows marijuana plantations in Greece for medical use. Plantations, then, marijuana. What is the incentive to introduce this draft law, of course in terms of government? Are there some humanitarian reasons, namely access to a treatment medium for patients over time? Is it an endeavor to develop entrepreneurship in Greece, or is it a prelude to decriminating in general cannabis? This last point I can well support, because there was a hint of the SYRIZA rapporteur in the committees, that this bill is only the beginning. He implied, in other words, that it exists all the time. What can be that all the time? The denial of cannabis. As much as some factors have subsequently tried to deny it, we believe that this legislative effort is indeed an attempt to see a prelude to the decriminalisation of cannabis. What, though, has been said twice to the committees by the rapporteur of the New Democracy? There was something unscientific, but it was an interpretation, I would say, of sympathy to the invented bill. It has been said that cannabis is an election medicine for some diseases. That's completely unscientific. The truth about cannabis medicine is that in some of the symptoms of certain and few diseases is positive, but this positive action does not go beyond the positive action of conventional classic medical preparations. That is the truth, because we must approach with due science, but also sensitivity, people suffering from chronic diseases in Greece. Some fruits have been created in them hopes that cannabis medication, i.e. marijuana, is a panacea. Who is he who's the inspiration that marijuana medicine is panacea? He is Canadian activist Rick Simpson, a marijuana big-gatherer, who claims he was cured himself by skin cancer in three parts by the marijuana pharmaceuticals. In fact, it goes on to distribute - without any scientific basis - how it cures many forms of cancer. Mr Rick Simpson was in the report 'CANNABIS EXPO' at the beginning of the year - in January, if I am not mistaken - where Mr Nikos Karanikas and, above all, Mr George Papandreou, the former Prime Minister, who actually appeared to the committee and the masks of the Change Movement, which has a trunk of PASOK, as well as two of his components, the KIDIS of George Papandreou, and the River through the special speaker, Mr Psarianos, are in favour of the decolonisation of the cannabis. As a coroner at the Ministry of Justice for many years, I have conducted more than a thousand psychiatric experts with a request whether or not a person is dependent. I handled cases involving small quantities, up to very large amounts. For example, there was a case involving sixteen pounds of heroin. I can assure you that in the vast majority of heroin addicts, the gateway to the drug world was cannabis. This is an irresistible given that and anything other than my scientific experience, it is also scientifically arrogant. I mean, people who go into the drug world start on cannabis. Marijuana, cannabis, is a addictive substance and is part of drugs, not in the sense that it is drugizing, of course, but in the broad sense. It causes toxicosis, tolerance, that is to say it takes more and more to produce the desired effect - in the case of cannabis medicine, medical - but of course it also causes a deprivation syndrome. It is also linked - and this is an irresistible scientific fact - to psychotic episodes. I mean, it's triggering psychotic episodes. So, in our view, this is exactly where the danger to society lies. Who's that? It is possible that people who will use medical marijuana will become dependent after a period of time, develop withdrawal syndrome and tolerability in marijuana. What is this factor that can prevent this? I also told the committees that the non-reference to a higher limit - that is, a percentage - of the D9-tetrahydrocannabinol, which is the active psychoactive substance in marijuana, is a reason for withdrawal. The draft law does not refer to the upper limit. It must be mentioned, there must be a legislative improvement and the House must not be overruled by this, Minister. I would repeat to you - because I also told the committee - that there are marijuana seeds which reach marijuana production and 30% - that is, from cannabinols 30% to D9 - tetrahydrocannabinol, the active psychoactive substance. Provision should be made in the draft law, not by simple ministerial or joint ministerial decision. You will have to decide today, you will probably have to consult some people, but the upper limit to be set is the same in Italy. I would remind you that the Italian army has grown it in Italy and produces a product called FMDUE, which has tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, 5% D9-tetrahydrocannabinol with 8%. It's for drug use. Because some sufferers in Italy used this preparation they were tolerant, Minister. You're a doctor and you understand what I'm telling you. Tolerance is established in systemic cannabis use. In other words, this positive action on the symptoms of diseases began to get lost and asked for more and more of this medicine. Many, then, of the Italians - because in Italy it continues to import a Dutch preparation - resort to buying the Dutch preparation called Bedrocan and has 22% D9-tetrahydrocannabinol. We therefore propose the following. Why, yes, you have a particular attitude and attitude toward us - you are trying to despair us, you do not enter into a democratic dialogue with us and you have stated it very well, you do not answer the questions we are asking - and even though we despise your position, we respect legislative work in general, we are therefore making some specific proposals: The first proposal, therefore, Minister, is the upper limit, which should be introduced today with a legislative improvement. The second concerns the preservation of these crops, that is, of marijuana. There is no sufficient prediction. In our view, once this draft law has become a law of the state, provision should be made at least, even if the service is to be charged, special guards to keep these crops. At least that. In this draft law, too, there should be a list of diseases and symptoms - because there are work to do - but at least the diseases where marijuana medication has some positive effect. Indeed, there are symptoms in multiple sclerosis where it has positive energy. And I repeat that this positive action does not go beyond conventional, classic medicinal products and that the use of marijuana presents a risk of becoming dependent on chronic patients but also of causing psychotic episodes to them if there is a high percentage of D9-tetrahydrocannabinol. That is why it is important to introduce a higher limit, which will of course have a low price, such as in Italy, 8% maximum. Let me remind you, Minister - I told you - that in a similar case for the industrial cannabis, the HEMP, the Minister of Justice - in his honor - accepted our proposal and changed a percentage, for the benefit of the social system as a whole. We expect something similar from you. I would remind you, because you are a doctor, of the equine saying: 'Health or harm'. We invite you to act as Minister in this direction. Of course, with all this, Golden Dawn relentlessly rejects this draft law, which conceals these well-known SYRIZA ideas that are sometimes expressed by Mr. Nikos Karanika, who seems to affect not only the Prime Minister, but also the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-six students and students and a training meeting from the 3rd Voula Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed bill allows the exclusion of cannabis production for medical purposes from the process of state monopoly and the development of this production activity by natural or legal persons, with a view to either supplying the State monopoly or exporting. The JRC, as we have already said, is voting against this draft law. In fact, we have asked for it to be withdrawn for two very important reasons. Of course, we have no illusion that you will withdraw it. We are, of course, calling for withdrawal, expressing the extent of our opposition to this draft law. What for? Firstly, because these arrangements open up a new profitable scope for business groups. This is what the government serves with its tripartite staff - growth, profits, jobs - claiming that they will come through the process of liberating cannabis production and its products for medical purposes. Secondly, because through deliberate ambiguities it removes any restrictions to facilitate the attraction of investors. For at least a year, the Government has been preparing the ground, presenting these rules as progressive and necessary, without hesitating to make use of also institutions or persons who adopt opinions that go up to the decriminalisation of its use for own use and self-production. At the same time, and in order to sum up the real nature of the draft law, arguments are being put forward that give rise to the idea that hemp is a tested and innocent natural product, which makes it easier for young people to accept in general the use of cannabis and culture accompanying it. The JRC takes into account science, analyses, findings as well as clinical actions. Let me make a few points on the basis of what has been said: Patients often argue that this is a medicine they need and that they need to have legal access to it. It is clear that these patients can obtain them through a specific EOF procedure, which exists, as provided for in a ministerial decision, after the conclusion of the Committee on the Medical Use of Cannabis set up by the Ministry of Health. Therefore, based on the existing experience with the use of other drugs, such as opioids, medical practice, as well as scientific data available on cannabis and substances, natural or synthetic, derived from it, the JRC concludes that: Firstly, the herbal cannabis, because of the large number of active substances it contains, for the vast majority of which we do not know the effects, interactions, side effects with each of them and their various combinations, cannot be used in itself as a medicinal product. Secondly, on the other hand, specific active substances that are isolated from cannabis or can even be artificially composed, could be used for pharmaceutical, medical, comforting purposes in cases where existing medicines are not enough. And on this issue there is no horrific syndrome. Crystal the position of the JRC. You make sure you override her. Thirdly, however, it is a fundamental condition for the treatment of active substances as medicines, namely their isolation from the plant or their artificial chemical production, and for clinical studies to determine their indications of use, their pharmacokinetic characteristics, their safety profile, their interactions with other medicines to be provided to patients with the greatest possible safety and efficacy. Fourthly, there is an important prerequisite to the implementation of this and to ensuring, first of all, the safety of patients is strict control by the State itself of production, processing, disposal, administration of such medicines with strict scientific criteria and medical monitoring of patients receiving them. What does the draft law for all this? Absolutely, but absolutely nothing. As far as the opinion that it says it has proved to be its therapeutic value and that there is no need for research and empirical data is quite enough, or that thousands of people have found themselves the dosage they need, we want to say that this is a profoundly unscientific and dangerous concept, which in fact flies to the trash all the progress of science and knowledge that has been gained. It is based on the philosophical view of postmodernism, on which there is no objective reality, but reality is different for everyone, depending on the way it is perceived, the theory that SYRIZA is adopting today. Experience is used to replace scientific research, which takes us centuries back when people were trying to interpret the facts around them through their experience. But since then science has made huge progress and it is darkness that it is silenced. In addition, with these arguments you are giving help to the policy implemented by the government this year and the previous years, as well as the European Union, on how patients will cost even less in the state and in the business groups. These arguments cultivate the resignation of claiming to exploit the enormous potential of science to the benefit of patients. Also, the liberation of the cultivation of cannabis medically outside the state monopoly is said to have multiple economic benefits for the country. It is clear that the government's interest in ensuring this field of activity for capital too, to create investment opportunities for large monopolistic trusts in the drug field. They argue that Greece is offered for the production of large quantities - three crops per year - and of good quality cannabis. They also say that this will open new jobs, revive our rural economy, help in the influx of proceeds from sale and export, bring revenue to the state, as sales will now take place in a legitimate way and will therefore be taxed, and finally save the insurance funds from the costs they have for prescribing expensive medicines. This is the argument of the Government and the criterion of growth in favour of business groups, of growth translated into profitable investment, which requires low wages, flexible labour relations, land-uses that affect investment, minimum taxation on large capital, strong government support for investment, abolition of collective agreements and limitation of trade unions' action. It is a fact that these anachronistic and non-scientific arguments may particularly affect some of the patients suffering from severe, chronic and painful illnesses, as well as the families, who have been helping them and looking for a solution. A lot more when confronted with the mess of public health establishments, the commercialisation of services, the almost total lack of public units and services, to support patients and families, when all they need for the state is a cost, which they carry to themselves, in order to deal with it. These conditions are a deprivation of their freedom, which cannot, of course, be replaced by the freedom to use cannabis without the scientificly appropriate terms and conditions. On the one hand, the ambiguities of the draft law on the production and use of hemp, through the lifting of the state monopoly, facilitate business groups to trade in human pain and, at the same time, to gain intact wealth. The Government is rushing to facilitate, channel accumulated funds to new activities that can provide high profitability, as has already been said, with investments in Imathia amounting to 1.5 billion, over a decade, gains of more than 200 billion euros. She is not interested in such a serious issue of creating a comprehensive legislative framework, deliberately. It is not now a comprehensive legislative framework. Don't make fun of each other. Apart from the fact that the main focus is profit, the bill creates reasonable suspicions that it is coming to serve other purposes. In fact, it seems from what both Ministers have said at both meetings that the government is actually seeking to get a white cheque from the House to do on the road what it wants through joint ministerial decisions on behalf of and on the part of the master plan of business groups, with whom it has already come to discussions on investment preparation. More specifically for the draft law: Firstly, the draft law excludes - to verify our view - the production of hemp for medical purposes from the process of the state monopoly. If there is evidence that certain substances contained in the hemp plant can offer relief to patients, why could it not be produced by the State monopoly or from importing the preparations concerned without having to change existing and adequate legislation? Here, do it with this state monopoly. We do not agree with this state, but do it with that state, with this state monopoly. You don't. You don't even do that. Secondly, only those conditions which define the capitalist nature of the investment, such as the condition that the activity is vertical, uniform - that is to say, production, ownership, transport, processing, storage - are described, that the activity takes place in a single enclosed area of at least four acres and that the area cultivated is closed to specific greenhouses. All other requirements and any other relevant issue are assigned to the joint ministerial decisions and even by bypassing the opinion of the Committee on Narcotic Drugs. The excuses put forward by the Minister yesterday that much will depend on what investors want, it is also the proof that they will do what they want and operate uncontrollablely. Thirdly, with regard to the final product of production, there is no specific reference to some of the substances of the cannabis plant which have been linked to certain soothing properties for chronic diseases, but which are also used in vague - and very convenient at the same time - the Government term 'final cannabis medicinal products'. This ambiguity could well open the door to the total decriminalisation of cannabis and for personal use by investing it with a “medical” cloak. Fourthly, the government actually legislates to produce hemp leaves. It does not concern, in substance, the production and movement of safe and quality preparations, which require standardisation, the definition of specific specifications for substance, dosing publishers, titration, analytical, quantitative and qualitative analysis and in general compliance with the principles of pharmaceutical science. If he were really interested in this, the minimum he could do would be to define the medicinal products exactly, namely substances, excipients and their specifications obviously. It raises the question of the fact that the references made in the explanatory statement are neither included nor even implied in the draft law. And I am referring to the disposal of the final product in production. It does not separate the finished product from the raw material, i.e. flowers, blossoms, leaves, etc., which are also known as ‘baphos’. In our view, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government also appears to have targeted itself as an objective, apart from the legalisation of the possibility of using preparations by patients for medical reasons - which it has already carried out - and the promotion of all necessary measures to decriminate cannabis for personal use. We must not forget the international experience in this matter. The Communist Party of Greece does not say it accidentally. You are aware of the studies and the international experiences you do not mention. In a number of European Union countries and also internationally and in particular in the United States, medical cannabis use is a vehicle for complete liberalisation, arguing that individual culture can contribute to the supply of cheap and quality cannabis. The results, of course, were tragic. This finding is unsettling for some. We wonder, why is this a matter for you? Finally - to close, Mr President - the JRC, as we said before, is voting against the draft law and calls for it to be withdrawn, because it has as its basic criterion the profit and competition of monopolies, which, in the case of medicinal products, is traded in human suffering. In our opinion, today there are objective conditions for a completely different development path, but the criterion will be social needs and not the profitability of capitalists, as the government diligently plans in this draft law, and where the real producers of wealth will have the keys to the economy and power. In this context, in our view, business action will be abolished and monopolies will be socialised on the medicine. The economy and production will be organised on the basis of a scientific central design where the functioning of a state drug body is designed, organised the research, production, import and supply of quality medicinal products. On this basis we are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th Elementary School of Nea Smyrna. The House welcomes them. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it clear from the outset that we, the Independent Greeks, will vote in principle and in its entirety. But that does not prevent me - and I said it in my first speech - from speaking as a doctor and as a citizen. I want to make one thing clear. First of all, I said it, and I will repeat that this bill is not available for confrontation. I cannot imagine a party controversy about such a thing. It's an explosive social problem - we all know it - so at least I want to get close to it. I want to make it clear from the outset that there is, in fact, an explosive problem for people who have a huge need for medicine, at drug level, and who are forced to go out to illegality to satisfy a self-evident human right that the state must guarantee. That cannot be denied. At least those who saw and watched the bodies yesterday must have no doubt. You listened very carefully to the mother, the one who has the five children and many more. This is the one side of the currency that the state has to solve. I think he's taking the first step and he has to. I don't hide from you that I have personal experience as a doctor of the National Health System for thirty-seven years from people suffering from multiple sclerosis and finding comfort on this medicine. We saw their representative. I can't deny it, I mean. I have other cases of late cancer that really find comfort on this medicine. I say it again: it's a medicine for me. It is therefore a step that needs to be taken. But there is another view, in my view rightly. I listen with respect to all parties in this Parliament. I have listened with great respect to the positions of the Communist Party of Greece. We may disagree on many things, but too much is right. What do I mean? I will repeat the example. I am now thinking of the poor cancer patient who I as a young doctor with a bilinear recipe for morphine. She was really relieved. It's been over thirty-five years. I didn't hear the morphine moving. The morphine monopoly was shielded at that time. And it's a heavy drug. Don't be fooled. I'm the one who won't deny that cigarette is causing eighteen cancers. It's allowed free of charge, because some have to win. Alcohol can cause blindness. There's something on the loose too. Is henabi so dangerous? Oh, no. I tell you very well and straightforwardly. It's not. But what is it? Those who talk to pharmacists will know that a child with this relaxation of fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, will get Stilnox, get mucosal, tranquilizers or drink alcohol. There's a climate there. I disagree with the former Prime Minister. I was one of the two who wanted to hear his opinion. I don't like anyone to twist. I heard him. At least he had the responsibility to say his opinion once again. I disagree that he's not prepared and has been proved. I have another point of view. Forgive me this different point of view, because I have been working in the National Health System for many years. Half of my specialty is related to sexually transmitted diseases and I come in very much contact with such people, whether they're organs or something else. He's willing and that's what defines my position. I say again: White - black is not here, and that is why I am one of those who say we need to be careful. I have made it clear from the outset that it is a step that needs to be taken. One cannot desperately seek a medicine and fall into the illegal. For God's sake. It's the state's debt to do it, but it has to shield it. It was nice to hear a strict statement from the Minister of Health yesterday. Some claim that this bill is a premise for cannabis legalization in general. That's really a terrible syndrome. No, he's not a mercenary to legalise cannabis in general. I'm in a position to know. I know that both Ministers, who are pretending to have no such thing in their minds. I know it and I believe it. I am glad that this approach, the fearful, the overconservative, is incorrect. Can we shield this step? I think so. This is at least my speech and - I forget that I am a Member of Parliament, I forget that I belong to a party and forget everything else, and I remember being a citizen and a doctor. If you want, throw away my opinion, but we have to be very careful, which I think will be the case. It leaves me coldly indifferent. I read here various reports that scare me: the purchase of 250 billion. It is the market waiting for legitimisation, etc. And he puts countries here like Israel, the USA, Canada, Australia. I'm so sorry. I will take one example that I do not need the JRC to tell me, but I say it myself: eight people have assets as much as half the poorest part of the planet, namely 3.6 billion. What is this thing that we all accept as normal? Is it unfair? It's perversion. It's not just unfair. It's a twisted perception of some things. Therefore, it cannot be a reference point for some countries that have adopted extreme neoliberalism to the end. Again, I'm not the left one to say these things. A bit of a brain is needed. We cannot accept a priori that eight people have assets as much as half the poorest part of the planet. The same cannot be said to be a market of 250 billion with legalisation and everything. Stay away from us. I believe that this is an opinion which we all adopt in this Chamber. Steps carefully need to be taken. I don't want to say any more. I have listened very respectfully to Mr Barriotta, who spoke with good approaches, etc. It has said a great deal right, like other colleagues who have listened to them. So I think that our steps should be carefully and I was pleased that both Ministers at least, as I heard them and heard the interviews they gave, made a public commitment that it had nothing to do with cannabis, with tax, etc. Finally, I say again: As morphine was not spread - and I wrote it, because I had last stage cancer - I say that can be shielded as well. That is my opinion and the step must be taken carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we see in this bill the possibility of producing, holding, supplying, and supplying cannabis products by companies. Greece, although it is not a pioneer among the countries of the European Union that decided to modernise its legislation on the medical use of cannabis, it may be able to be in the first place if we legislate properly. Cannabis medicine is a lever of global development. In Canada, for example, the ten most developing companies are the ones involved in cannabis medicine. In the United States, one state after another allows the cultivation of cannabis production of finished products and disposal worldwide. In Australia there are already large investment in progress. Israel is decades ahead of research, cultivation, production of cannabis medicinal products, and here is where we need more than ever our minds that went abroad. We could, although it is not too late, enter research programmes because there are funds for this reason in the European Union. Two should be the objectives of the government. Apart from satisfying the needs of patients, the main issue we should be concerned with is exports, and that is what this bill refers to. It is a golden opportunity to make our country a centre for the cultivation of cannabis medicine, with the optimists saying that the revenues will be comparable to the "heavy industry" of tourism. The world's turnover from producing two and a half million hemp amounts to 18.5 billion dollars a year. Of course, all potential investors, but also the citizens of this country, who are opposed to cannabis growing in Greece, must first be properly informed, even for pharmaceutical purposes. Farmers and potential investors should understand that this investment is a million-dollar investment. We have seen a number of vulnerabilities happening in the past, when there is a half-learning among the potential investors. I will mention, for example, the fake dreams of photovoltaics. We all remember in the summer of 2010 how it turned out to Eldorado for farmers. At that time, former Prime Minister George Papandreou and the Minister responsible gave him priority to install photovoltaic pigeons as a priority vis-à-vis all. As a result, ten thousand farmers were interested in this production. Six thousand two hundred farmers have decided to submit the application, to pay a file on an engineering, paradoxical total value of four, five, seven thousand euros plus the guarantee letters. Four and a half thousand were approved and in April 2013, when the two-year extension to complete the investment took place, the thirteen thousand farmers took place. Here we have to report that most of the people got a loan. The guaranteed price then was 42 minutes. He went to 40 because he made an agreement with the state monopoly. Extraordinary taxation - after all - 30% of this turnover and instead of farmers making additional revenues, they started to go in and those who borrowed more than 200,000 euros go in. These are the fake dreams of green energy. Questions, Minister, are a lot. What will be the authorisation procedure for the cultivation of cannabis medicinal products? Our proposal is the committee responsible for preparing the regulations governing plant cultivation and in turn for companies to prepare their proposals. The committee should then consider specific criteria such as, for example, that the selected company should have experience in the cultivation of medicinal cannabis. It is good to assess the name the company will have on the market, its financial situation and, of course, the extent to which it will seek to grow. The larger the size, the more the revenues will be for the company, but of course also for the state. A specific condition should be laid down that the companies concerned should be convened with local investors to form their share capital. As far as we understand, we have to wait for a lot of ministerial decisions. Questions: How many permits will eventually be granted? You have not answered us yesterday nor today. In Cyprus, they go for two. In Israel, which is a pioneer, eight companies have the right to produce cannabis medicinal products and finished products. The Netherlands currently has only one producer. The Czech Republic is a producer. Italy entrusted the army with production. Are you going to set a limit on the license number? If not, how will you protect the candidate Greek investors from the manipulation of the market? I say this because it is stated that the products of each producer, who will not only grow, but will be able to process hemp in a final product, will have to sell them to the State monopoly or export them. If he did not find - before he proceeds with his investment - the way to export them, then the company is finished. You're saying the EOF will approve the production and circulation of the finished cannabis medicinal products. What will the procedure be so that there are no suspicions that you are serving a particular producer? So the licensed producers will export with the state label in a controlled and strictly supervised context? As far as we're concerned, there will be a lot of ministerial decisions that will complete the existing bill, so it would be right to wait for the ministerial decisions to see if that law is good. The Centro Association does not want to lose this golden opportunity for development that our country so much needs. Questions are many and unanswered. If we say yes, we do not know what we are going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Fokas. The reason is the special speaker of the river, Mr. Psarianos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We had a position for about half an hour from two representatives from the ends of the House, who have nothing to do with each other, and that the meaning of those who have expressed here on the bill under discussion was about the same, not to say exactly the same. It's a perception that's confusing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u69	You're disgusting about what you're saying. You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u70	They have nothing to do with each other. Don't interrupt me. They had similar views on this matter. This is a well-known tactic in the direction of banning policy and repression. It has been tested everywhere and has been misused and the whole world is moving towards the decriminalisation of drug use, the whole world except for underdeveloped countries and countries that live from drug trafficking. If you get caught with substances, any substances, in Thailand, in Colombia, in Bolivia, you can go for execution, while these countries live with drugs and addictive substances. It is a smuggling logic, Chicago, Al Capone, mafia, which frightens the profits of smuggling and trafficking in substances that may be addictive and may be drugs. They may be addicts not to biological dependence, but to psychological. On psychological dependence there are many things that get used to us. It's our team, our religion, our love relationship. There are many things in life that become psychologically addictive to our lives. But the substances we're talking about is not even on the drug list. There are people who may be using for a while and then not make a few days to do and some may not. It is not like the use of other substances that are directly and extreme and highly dependent on psychological and biological dependence. The prohibition patent was developed worldwide as a drug ban. I would like to ask: What has benefited, what has helped the anti-alcoholic movement in America and the exemption from the side effects of alcohol use? Did the prohibition or its lifting help? I expect this answer and nobody has given it to me. Prohibition has given the mafia and the persecution of alcoholic drinks, the prosecution and judicial authorities and lawyers, in a huge system of interests, huge profits and proliferation of alcoholic drinks, and has moved hand-on drinks, so that society in the United States is almost destroyed over the entire period of prohibition. The lifting of the ban has helped astonishingly importantly to exempt them from these dependencies. I would like to say that here, too, there are drugs that are in the pharmacy. They can be found every day. It's alcohol everywhere, caffeine, nicotine - everywhere! - and they're not forbidden. There are also substances which are banned. In fact, we are talking about cannabis for drug use and cannabis products for pharmaceutical purposes. There are preparations in our pharmacy, derived from cannabis derivatives or opiates, which are circulated in pharmacies and after prescription patients can obtain them. Why forbid cannabis from growing for pharmaceutical purposes? That's what we're talking about. At the end of the day, I will say a few things about the general anti-prohibition policy, which is a very important issue. But we start by talking about it now. Do you know how much the benefits for the rural population of Greece would be? Not to tell you about those who hear from us from Elias, from Messinia, from Crete, from Iato-Acarnania, from Larissa, from Thrace. I hope that thousands of people will listen to us and know very well what it means to be illegal culture, smuggling and all the other things and what it would mean if for this miracle plant, from which you don't throw anything, it was forbidden to use, cultivation, possession and you can do any crimes and be out and it can be for five grams to go to jail. Is that human-civilized country legislation? In all European countries these banning and repressive policies, other than Greece, have been cancelled. I think this has been done in many other countries worldwide. I'm not talking about Israel, Canada, the United States, Australia, etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. In general, this is a regulation in the right direction, but there are no problems, ambiguities, gaps and individual issues that we need to look at in detail. There are several points in need of improvements and clarifications. In addition, it is negative that no open consultation had taken place. Mr. Apostle, the Minister, said about a month ago, in January, we will be in consultation for as long as necessary. That's not what happened. Patients' associations, organisations, as well as businessmen have tabled numerous proposals and waited for the bill to enter public consultation. Unfortunately, none of the proposals were taken into account in drawing up the draft law, and the possibility of commenting, which would have been made during the public consultation, was denied. There was only a hearing of bodies yesterday for an hour and a half, when great things were heard - excellent things! - by all the bodies specializing in this matter, except for two - three voices horrific, conservative and ideological. This has been an issue pending since 2013, when L.4139/2013 was passed, the Act on addictive substances. At that time, we had fought, among other things, not to say 'the drugs law' but to 'the law on addictive substances'. And thankfully, it's passed. Because that's what we're talking about. Since 2013, with the adoption of the bill, cannabis varieties are allowed to be cultivated for industrial use, the so-called ‘cannabis cloning’. However, in practice this was only possible three years after, in 2016, when the joint ministerial decision on the terms and conditions for the cultivation of the cloning hemp varieties was signed. We have to say that these dreadful and hysterical voices that we are opening doors to drugs and the country will be filled with chassis and drug addicts have also been heard at that time when we were talking about the cloning cannabis, which has a zero tetrahydrocannabinol content. I had brought pants to committee, jackets, hats, vests and told them that they are'smoking'. Do you know why the cannabis was banned? It was prohibited by the large American companies when the nylon and plastic products were taken. Then hemp was banned and economies and families destroyed. He was talking before a congressman from Corfu. In Corfu - it's not Messinia, it's not Kalamata, it's not Amaliada or Anogia, Corfu - there were four cloning hemp crafts and for pharmaceutical purposes with eight hundred fifty workers who stayed on the street. Only in Corfu! This policy is disastrous. It must not go on for development purposes and people's health reasons. Because even if one is a cannabis user for euphoric use, for its fun, first, he is not toxic-dependent. Secondly, for me to take my dose off as a user - that is, it will be even worse for heroin and cocaine addicts - I must put you all in the 'core' so that I can get my dose out of the percentages that I will smuggle, the illegally moving substance. When this is decriminalised, this "falcony" ends. It's over! They lose huge sums, of course, the lawyers, doctors, who give assurances that the man has a problem, "so don't put him in prison for ten years, put him in a year and a half." He's finishing the offense circuit, the prosecution. I don't know if they're listening to me from the prosecution, but there's something they'll understand from what I'm saying there. There is also something that those who listen to us - I repeat - understand from the regions that I mentioned in particular. Cannabis is now classified in the second list of drugs and is under the sole control of supply, circulation and disposal of the state, like morphine, because of the high risk of dependence. It's not too high a risk of dependence. In this draft law, natural or legal persons will be able to produce hemp at more than 0,2%, for the sole purpose of producing finished hemp products only and supplying them with the State monopoly for the sale to patients, export for medical purposes. We need to look at this issue of export control and production and processing. These are serious issues. At international level, an international example of a liberal approach is Canada, which has the most advanced institutional framework. The United States is also leading the way, even though they are the ones who banned it. Now it's been lifted in thirty states. In some central states of the United States, even, huge investment is being made in the cultivation and production of products. We said why he was banned. Because the ropes, the sacks, and all that had to be made with plastics, and that's why they banned it. Now this ban has been lifted and they have realised that by cultivating and treating cannabis, in all its forms, it is a huge investment for society and for taxes to the state. Because, you know, smuggling, which is the first in the world along with weapons, has no tax return in the countries. It's zero. They confuse in the pockets various ribbons, who are also strongly opposed to decriminalisation, because they will lose these profits. And there are various fools who follow this policy, by ideology, prejudice and obsession. The European Union lacks a common legislative framework. Portugal has decribed the occupation for personal use since 2001, with spectacular results in reducing the damage and problematic users and the problems caused by the use and spread of people who use it. The growing for personal use by adults has been decriminating in Spain since 2000. In Italy, medical use became legal in 2007, while in 2014, by law, it became legal and easier to prescribe cannabis by general doctors. It is now under the control of the army in Italy, in fact, cultivation and processing and the entire legislative framework is controlled by the army. I think here, too, some of the Department of National Defence can help in this direction. Medical use of cannabis or medicinal products is permitted in Austria, the Czech Republic, Finland, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, France, Croatia, Slovenia. That's it until last year. The approach and logic of the bill are positive and result in multiple benefits, such as access by patients to final products, strengthening entrepreneurship, developing the economy by creating thousands of new jobs, economic gains for the State from taxation, exports and all economic activities of the industry. However, the bill is below expectations, as we have said, and it is completely sketchy and short. I think we should quickly see all the differences in other areas that need to be regulated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll forgive me, I won't secondary, I just want two minutes for some things that are very important. Such an important bill should include in total: Integrated regulation framework in order to achieve the fight against organised crime and the black market by decriminating use and occupation. Ensure and protect public health and patients' rights. We're always talking about drug use now. We always talk about patients who can find on the black market preparations or get from the pharmacy after prescription, but imported, while we here can do this job and export it already. Compensatory benefits for society and the economy. It must provide for and certify them and establish them. On five pages, all of which occupy the three articles of the draft law, we have a large number of omissions for both patients and small and medium-sized domestic investors and producers. There is a risk that large foreign companies will get the monopoly, and we must give this right to local growers and processors. There is no definition of approved diseases. Diseases whose side effects can be catastrophic are: Malexia, anorexia, nausea and vomiting by chemotherapies - there are chemicals that are banned, but chemotherapy is accessible - epilepsy, chronic and neuropathic pain, multiple sclerosis, Crohn’ s disease, post-traumatic disorder - stress, agitation to Alzheimer’ s disease. Proposal to expressly refer to the diseases for which the medicine will be given by the institutions at yesterday's sitting. Secondly, there is no record of patients. There's a report that it's going to be part of the electronic prescribing system at some point. There is no reference to the possibility of covering treatment with drug cannabis preparations from the insurance funds and much more, which I will give in writing and to submit to the ministers, as well as real improvements to the articles. I don't want to tire you any more. I've been over time. We need to look at approaches that will focus on the introduction of ready-to-eat preparations or the creation of closed factories by multinational companies or the exclusive involvement of the Greek pharmaceutical industry within a framework of a state monopoly. They have so far been considered effective and within the bill they are ineffective and fragmentary, as they do not anticipate the changes that need to be made as a whole. We propose adding the existence of a clause so that a part of every investment of the kind goes directly to the Greek universities and higher education institutions to develop scientific research in all the advanced countries of the world. The need for access to cannabis for investigations and clinical studies has been mentioned by almost all institutions. We should - and I close - provide a more comprehensive framework for the medical use of cannabis and ensure that patients have full rights to hold and use cannabis for therapeutic purposes in whatever form and in whatever form. We are also talking about a revision of Law 4139 and not about a law on the productive reconstruction of the country alone. There have been several days - things that society has overcome - both in the committees and in the House about the plant. It has been submitted to the Practical Extensive Literature from about a thousand pages in digital form by people, who were listening to institutions, proving the positive therapeutic effect of cannabis for a set of conditions worldwide. It also demonstrates this material that cannabis is less harmful and addictive to alcohol, from tobacco and demonstrates the most integrated country-to-country approach to its medical use. In at least fourteen European countries and in some forty other countries around the world, more than 500 million people and patients have legal access to cannabis medicinal products, i.e. the medicine. I hope that we will open our eyes and not see all the bills in a form of coalition or opposition. This bill - a small step is - should be voted on from the whole House in addition to the two extremes which, for different reasons, are firmly opposed in a paranoid manner - at least the progressive party - in my opinion. Thank you very much. We'll be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u71	There are two communications to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIZELOS" Hall, thirty-four students and students and four teachers from the High School of Imathia and from the 1st Arsaceio Tocicio High School of Elis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second communication concerns a letter from Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras to the President of the Parliament on the government change already taking place and I am immediately announcing it to you. A) By the 21/28-02-2018 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 36/28.02.2018 (cf. A) the resignations submitted by: 1. Ioannis Moussalas of Efstratios from the position of Minister for Migration Policy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Dimitrios Vitsas of Athanasios from the position of Deputy Minister of National Defence and were relieved of their duties. B) By the 22/28-2-2018 Presidential Decree, published in the FEK No 37/28-2-2018, they were appointed: Mr. Ioannis Drasakis of Andreas, Vice-President of the Government. in the position of Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas of Athanasios in the place of the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Fotios - Fannelos Kouvelis of the Gospel, in the place of Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mrs. Meropis Toufis of Stephans, in the place of Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Athanasios Eliopoulos of Constantine, in the place of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and Mr. Konstantinos Army of Nikolaos, in the place of Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u72	We're continuing to discuss the bill. The list of rapporteurs and special speakers has already been completed. Before we begin with the list of speakers, we will give the floor to Mr Apostle, the Minister for Rural Development, and then we will start the list of speakers. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, after three joint meetings in the relevant committees, and bearing in mind that we are bringing legislation which is not a simple regulation, because it has to do with cannabis medicinal products, a raw material that has been linked to many social derivatives, I would like to see some political conclusions made before I move on to the individual parts of the bill. My first point is that throughout this long period of publicity the drafting of this bill, all the media, forms and electronics, with few to zero exceptions, took a positive view of the government's promotion and positively highlighted the advantages of the elaboration. This media position recorded in a way that yes, we were trying in a field until yesterday's closed and unfamiliar, but it is an issue on which society and the citizens of most of them, despite any questions and reservations, have been solved and consented. The consultation that took place was therefore seen by the response that the bodies had and the relevant debate in the committee. The second point concerns the maturity and openness of the political world and the majority of the parties represented in the Greek Parliament. In three meetings, as I told you, despite any reservations, some of which were substantiated and justified, there has been an extremely creative dialogue and the contribution of the rapporteurs of the Democratic Alliance, of the River and of the Central Association - in the end, you are 'yes' in principle, but all your dialogue and especially your position has been quite positive. The corresponding, of course, also happened with the bodies, social representatives and scientific bodies. Let us not forget that there has also been such substantial intervention. The third intervention - which concerns the New Democracy, the Civic Opposition. It is regrettable - and I really say it with all the honesty - that for the Police Vice-Population Party, I find it specifically in its leadership, and I cannot believe that much of the Members of the right-wing party of the New Democracy, while it has a positive attitude, actually embraces what we want to bring, which is no more than the production of cannabis medicinal products, somewhere along the way, while their approach is positive, it prevails, it seems, the populist, political intervention and we have a cobbler, I would say, approach. It is not possible in the face of the struggling citizens to express themselves positively and when you want to convey the general picture, to have a different attitude. Look at it. It is a project that may have its difficulties, but do you not agree that it will give solutions to the agony of thousands of our patients? Do you not agree that this willingness, this commitment to investment, which exists and, given that such an area is created, is positive? I really can't understand your reflexes. The fourth point concerns the Communist Party of Greece. His rapporteur, especially in the committee, charged us with so many insidious intentions, so much unpopular intentions, that at the end of the day you have not accused us of operating as a leader in this country. Somewhere such an approach you've had. Of course, today in your position this has been mitigated and it is good. In my dentext I shall refer in particular to a number of issues that you and all the political forces have raised, but I think that what is important now is that the government today, with wisdom and thought, responding with an open spirit and modern reflexes on issues that the movement of life, health and the economy has raised, has introduced a bill in plenary session of the Greek Parliament, which the world scientific community itself, specialist researchers have concluded that this cannabis, Sativa L, with a high tetrahydrocannabinol content, is the one that can function as a natural and not as a chemical medicine to treat a series of diseases that are comforting or healing. This is the essential thing, on which we come to legislate, because everywhere, throughout the world, I would say that there is this issue of the search for medicinal cannabis products. We must therefore respond, firstly, to this social demand, which concerns the greatest good for our citizens, health. To be able, in other words, our fellow citizens in need of treatment for cannabis medicinal products to find them at an affordable price rather than to spend huge quantities of money in order to secure and not, of course, through roads of dubious legality. So the state itself comes and sees to this issue. Secondly, with elements that we have approached all this time of studying and processing the draft law, we have seen the prospects open to the economy and employment. I want to avoid the impressions and I can only assure you that the investments which are planned and the workers involved will be a genuine breath, a surprise, I would say, for our economy. Of course, as far as this assessment is concerned, it is enough to mention that an international group dealing with the cannabis market research, the Bradfield Group, has provided that we will have reached $32 billion in the hemp market by 2021, presenting this market with an increase, an annual growth of 60%. There's other evidence, but it's not the time. What is the time to answer a question: why the introduction of cannabis cultivation is ideal in our country, especially because this investment mood is so great. The answer is simple. We have comparative advantages, such as reduced heating costs due to climate, high intensity and sunshine duration, which is a very important given given, in relation to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u74	Excuse me, Minister. Won't it be closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u75	I beg your pardon, we are talking about areas which are enclosed, whether of the type of greenhouse or other constructions, which sunshine can see will be a tool that will increase the capacity of these spaces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u76	And qualitatively and quantitatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u77	Sure. I am telling you this specifically from the point of view of the agricultural situation, which is related to the micro-climate, which our country has. So only these advantages are too great. That is why we have said that the potential for our country is enormous. What is important is that we, without risks and without adventures in business, ensure that this process is effective. There was a debate in particular on security and control issues, which, I would say, came out of our approach, at least, as formulated. That's clear. We are talking about a procedure, an authorisation, which starts with the import of seed of propagating material, results in a specific medicinal product - I stress it, a pharmaceutical product - and this whole process will be enclosed and has such a security that it will not allow - I repeat, neither a single fly nor a single bee to be able to come out of this place. So, at least that's secured. Of course, as you can see, any concerns you expressed are concerns which, by the evil one, lead to other kinds of approaches. Why do you realize that there is a debate on a particular medicinal product and you want to take the debate to the decriminating of the use of cannabis, which has not even dealt with us, and which does not even concern us. This must be made clear. Another issue we need to answer is what will happen and what will benefit the rural area. As I served specifically in the rural area, we must respond to the farmers who see some cultivation coming. I've said this before, this activity needs investment funds, technology. There is no possibility of aid from either European or national resources, not only of production, but also of the investment concerned in general. But you realise that the benefit to be gained from employment in this activity in the countryside - because we will also have multiple effects on the countryside - will be very important. Moreover, there are possibilities through cooperative schemes, through synergies of groups, producer organisations, cooperatives, even private capital, which can take the processing sector elsewhere. In this direction, we will give particular weight so that through synergies the rural area can meet the requirements that are being formulated around it. Because in the rural area one of the issues that we absolutely need to move on is that the space must enter synergies and cooperate. So that's where we'll help them. There are already forms of such collaborative discussion which can be responded to so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you will have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u79	I'm hanging up. Maybe in my dentistry we'll say more. The whole debate has essentially raised a dilemma: Or we choose fear and we close ourselves in our crab - which also supported political forces - or we serve necessity, approaching reality. We, as government, chose the second. That's why we bring this bill, trying mild and careful to approach all the fronts, all the doubts. And you can be sure that this direction we have ensured by this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. We continue with the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the new ministers and good courage for the difficult tasks they have. If I were the Ministers, however, I would give the New Democracy the right to bring a law of its own on cannabis. I'm sure he wouldn't vote for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u82	Take it back and we'll bring him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u83	And he wouldn't vote for him because he made a policy with our partner Caranika. Do you mind Karanikas that much? Is he so emblematic? Do you want to make him a minister or a congressman? I'd be happy to have my partner Niko here. It's a nice dialogue, and I like it. However, I would like to raise a few points from the producers' point of view from the production process. I think it's a new product. For Greece, however, it is not new. Until 1957 there was the cannabis, the kick. There were several cannabis cloning factories. That is what one colleague said. Indeed, in Corfu there was the largest cannabis cloning plant with a thousand five hundred workers and a lot of products. It is therefore true that either hemp pharmaceutical or hemp cloning will also be a product of stress of labour and capital. Mr Minister, we have also discussed this in committee. I would like the farmers to be careful to be able to enter the pharmaceutical cannabis as well. However, we must first of all determine what is a final product that the farmer can easily do without large investments, such as seed or dried or anything else and not go to essential oils. Of course, essential oils or other products or ointments require much larger investment. So, first of all, we need to ensure this story. I do not know if you meant before that there are no funds for investments for farmers? I don't know if you meant that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u84	Aid and subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u85	Grants don't need to be paid. I am talking about aid or programmes that farmers will be able to take to make such investments. I understand that there is a risk that many have put here for cannabis. As the bill is formulated, it will be in the production and processing area and closed, I think there is no problem. It seems that these investments are not seen by the opposition. At least I see them. Already, the cannabis cloning will enter very dynamically, but also the medicine. That is why, Minister, I would like to raise the seed issue. The bill says there's going to be an import of seed. Indeed, at the moment, our country is not producing seed and we should see the seed trees, this genetic material. I know that the "ELGO DIMITRA" must have a seed bank. We need to see our spores. From what they say, we have very good seeds, we have good quality. So we need to look into it in a while, I don't know if it's next year or next, see the seed production. The seed production not only remains here, but also an export orientation. Small producers with COMEPs or cooperatives or producer groups may well produce such seeds which will be packed, checked for export purposes. You understand that if a few thousand acres come in - from what seems to be starting with fifty thousand and in Thessaly there are some plans and investments for twenty thousand acres - we will probably soon move towards this cultivation and the cloth. We're talking about a few thousand tons of seeds. So a large part of the exchange, I'm counting it over 20 million euros, they're coming out. So for our country it is also very important for the cloning and cannabis pharmaceuticals, seed trees, seeds, genetic material to be here in our country because it is wealth. I would like to talk about genetic material and other products, Minister. The Netherlands can't keep feeding us seeds all the time. Until the onion we put comes from the Netherlands. It takes a turn and I insist, because it's a new product. Now he's relaunching our country, as I said by 1957 there was, so we need to look at it on another basis better. I would very much like your attention on this issue so that the production process is all in Greece. I mean, no more imports. We have to make our own seed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u86	Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I do not want to go along with this attitude, I would like to begin with it. The bill is: ‘Provisions for the production of finished medicinal cannabis products’. It is not about medical use or so-called euphoric use of cannabis. I am saying this because, at committee meetings and the bodies' positions, there has been a confusion and this confusion is also brought to the attention of the world, creating mistaken impressions. We in the New Democracy have had a clear position from the outset. The rapporteur has also said it, and I repeat it. We agree with facilitating access for certain categories of patients to cannabis medicinal products. We say 'yes' to the production of finished cannabis medicinal products in our country as an activity that has taken place in other countries can bring private investment, create jobs, have export capabilities and generate revenues for the public. What we disagree and stated from the outset is the conditions, specifications and procedures for the manufacture of cannabis medicinal products. It is not just us, but other groups, which give a positive vote. In this bill, Minister, they express strong concerns about the above-mentioned reasons. Mr Apostle, as much as we would like to agree, there is no need for clear, clear and substantiated terms to vote on it. We don't speak of the wicked, Minister. You said some things in your speech, which is not in the bill. We have also put these in the committees and today in plenary in order to make them clear in the bill, so that they can take a proper and clear position. We don't know how many investments we want to make. He said Mr. Papadopoulos for producer groups. How many producer groups can they withstand and create these investments? Mr Papadopoulos also spoke about seeds and about another process, which must also be done in Greece. Is it possible for all of this to be included in this bill? It is not, of course, in this whole situation, that we disagree, but that we ignore this process. We, too, ignore important elements such as what will apply to farm approval, protection, security, storage and transport. We do not know how and from whom to carry out the annual compliance checks or the extraordinary checks to determine whether the conditions of authorisation are complied with. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a fog or a darkness around them and other critical points. It shows that the way the legislator approached the issue is rough and hasty. It is worth standing at a point, which I think is a sign of this curiosity. The bill mentions a single authorisation for production and processing, a process that, as the Minister said, starts from seed and results in a specific medicinal product, although we do not know what the form of this product will be. We are therefore talking about units of vertically integrated production and, indeed, of a closed type, which means that we need know-how and high initial investment costs. Perhaps we can also talk about companies that can invest in research and the development of finished cannabis products. An investment with such characteristics actually leaves small and medium-sized producers outside. So one wonders what serves the low minimum area for which approval is given? Isn't that a contradiction? One could answer that, with a minimum extent, agricultural cooperatives, producer organisations and groups can also be approved. How easy, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, do you think it is for co-operating producers to set up such a categorised production unit, when they, in fact, have to compete with companies from abroad that have capital, experience and know-how? So let us not create the wrong expectations in the rural world, and I would say that we do not cultivate expectations in general to those who would be interested in investing, because the fact that many important issues are referred to as common ministerial decisions means delays, especially since we have not heard - at least I have not heard - some time commitment to these decisions. There is, moreover, the precedent of the industrial cannabis, the cultivation of which was legislated in 2013 and started to take place three years later. Of all this, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that what is missing from the bill is quite enough and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u88	Mr.Ilias Panayotaros from the Golden Dawn will be given the floor and Mr. Geramos Balaouras will be followed by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Good month, everybody! Before I begin, I would like to comment on the unacceptable, but expected from us, by Mr Kotzias' energy this morning, who, while being here and responding to topical questions from other Members, has just come the turn of Mr Gregos, MP of the Golden Dawn and his question, just stood up and left. And we may now understand why this bill is of interest. Probably the fumes of this bill are further blurred by your already blurred ethnicist crisis, Mr. Kotzias. It demonstrates the panic and fear of dealing with the Golden Dawn at all levels either in the parliamentary or in the outlawing, or in the activist or wherever you wish. And if you think by hiding and escaping - literally running away - you think you're writing in what you don't have the third political power, you're deeply laughed and sleeped. Mr Kotzia, with your actions and actions you are degrading Parliament's institutions and procedures. And all of this, of course, for a timely question by Mr Gregos, which has to do with the plentiful Greek minority, which exists in the state of Skopje and which diligently all the governments - and yours in particular at this moment, which once again is trying to sell out the name of Macedonia - you are not saying anything at all. Of course, this bill, from what we see, affects other ministers. While Athens flies at all levels - murders, famines, earthquakes and oppression - Mr. Toskas is quite simply enjoying this bill, which has also affected the remodelling that took place this morning. We saw Mr. Kouvelis at the Department of National Defence. We won't say anything else. Your words - and Mr Kammenos and others - about Mr Kuveli just a year and a half ago, and what happened yesterday and today show that this bill actually affects all levels. We consider this bill to be a courier for the liberalisation of the use and marketing of hashish, but also other substances that, using the method of salamation, are slowly being brought along. And we also saw the most important and most important role of Mr. George Papandreou, who came to committee and spoke as an expert. You know, the one who planted the pots along with the pots. You understand how much these addictive substances have affected him, as you say, drugs. We're suggesting - why not? - and a minister, if you agree with what he says. This draft law does not provide any assurance that cultivation for use exclusively for pharmaceutical purposes will go there. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Aivatidis, brought you some examples of other European states, which have commissioned this very complex and difficult and dangerous story to the army, so that - if anything - at least it is ensured that the cannabis grown exclusively for medical purposes will end up there and will not go anywhere else. For security days, in a country where unbelievable things are happening, from the simplest, that the 'Ruviks' now enter the ministries and leave and go where they want, that criminals of all kind do what they want and on the basis of which they remain unpunished, we do not see anything about how these vast areas will be preserved. They're not small, it seems, because there are other parameters. Some small producers will not be able to cultivate cannabis in order to promote it, since you want vertical production units. After all, we see incidents, we hear, you read them every single one of them for different vulnerable groups, who actually go and strip themselves not just some small booths, but whole areas of acres, either by taking the olives, either vineyards, fruit and vegetables or anything else. Are they going to stick to the chassies that will be much better and of greater interest? We have heard various arguments that the ban brings the completely opposite results. Many use as an example and have as their dreams the way they go to the Netherlands, which costs them something more, to find the corresponding coffee shops here in Greece, so that they can drink it freely and think it's all good. Only recently - since 23 February - is the article published in the newspapers and is a study - the Dutch police themselves are pounding the alarm, warning and saying that the Netherlands is turning into a minear. The known gangs of offenders - the same ones we have here - vulnerable illegal immigrants, who have literally taken the hen in the Netherlands, where things are much easier and legal on many levels, are using these legitimisations in order to organise their export activities much better. We put it in the Minutes for anyone who is interested in seeing that the Netherlands is in a very bad spot. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have heard the argument of the Minister for Development. He has said so to the committee and now he has said so. That's a very nice argument. Yeah, some big investors will come because little people are not coming. These investors will probably buy single areas or rent them to cultivate cannabis for pharmaceutical use, as they say. Of course, as you know, the workers in their overwhelming majority or rather exclusively will not be Greek. So, we'd like to see the benefits of our homeland at the end of the day. As for dealing with it, we have heard various arguments either about banning either stricterisation or liberalisation. If there is no vision in a society, if there is nothing to inspire young people - whether forbidden or not - they will resort to all kinds of addicts and drugs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a minute. In closing, I will read you something to understand the consequences of prolonged use of cannabis for any reason. "The "something" as a logically necessary substrate of the concept, even of its meaning, is the last, but in no way devoid of the further course of thought removal of the objectic content that is not matched by thought. Without something typical logic cannot be understood, it cannot be cleared from the metalogic remnant. It is illusion that in the form of “general” the thought could disintegrate the objective content: presuppose the absolute form. Component of the form “objective content in general” is the practical experience of the objective content.” We pumped that off the internet. It was a post by Mr. Karanika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u90	Mr Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament has the future of the manufacture of finished cannabis products. This is indeed an activity that can provide economic benefits to the country, along with humanitarian benefits and easier access for the sick to the right medicine, without being imported from another country. But all these days, we've said all things except this. This is where the bill could be closed. And what we didn't hear. I must say that cannabinol, which is the active substance of this painkiller, is not a first-choice medicine for any disease. Anyone who says something different is out of reality. No concern cannabinol, regardless of the quantity of cannabis produced, can cause many side effects, such as all medicines, especially at higher doses. What are these? These are the psychotropic side effects that reach from mild mental disorders to severe schizophrenia in a large proportion. I heard the former Prime Minister yesterday talking about the decriminating of the use of cannabis and today by Gregory Psaryanos I heard that this has been done in forty countries of the world and in some European countries, a total of fifty. The other hundred what are they doing? They have not decribed the use of cannabis. I would like to say to Mr Apostolos, who is missing, that he does not so much insult the New Democracy. Mr Leventis's party colleague said something: why should I vote for it, since it is not enough? That's what he said. If you listened to the rapporteur of the new Republic and made these amendments, I would have no objection to adding some more and voting on the bill. What did he say? The very clever conversation about rational use, yes or no? Not in ministerial decisions. And yet, there will be a body of ministerial decisions. If, then, this is the case, did the government accept it? Oh, no. Why should we vote? Because 'will' be the case. The 'will' plant it and it didn't grow. But many other things have been heard that raise many suspicions and suspicions. Yesterday, as well as yesterday, Mr Psaryanos made a bold and dangerous criticism. I mean, he compared the hemp to smoking and alcohol. To God, no such simulations! These are dangerous things. Another drug addict and another addict. There's a huge difference again. We cannot accept such easy solutions and accesses. The government blames the New Democracy for pretending that he does what he does from the evil one. Do you want to bring the decriminalisation from the back door? The foundations set out in this bill are poor and ambiguity prevails on seven pages. As the rapporteur has told you very much, if you want to take the sixty pages of Cyprus and bring it to the vote. We have no objections. I do not deny the usefulness of the medicine for certain categories of patients. We say we have about ten thousand patients who have multiple sclerosis. Plaque sclerosis lasts forty and fifty years. Cannabis isn't the first option. First choice is other drugs. If there's severe neuroskeletal pain, then we get there too. However, I will not overlook that there are serious questions raised about this situation. How will we ensure that each unit is kept? What is the demand for such products abroad and what is defined as a final product in the country of destination? Why has no regular production of agreed quantities been selected and, in the end, why is a specific number of licences not defined? At the same time, it concerns the choice of the state government to trust the private initiative for the most sensitive product, the drug, dominating the black market. More than 1% of gross world income is drugs. You know what's going on. Why anywhere in health we do not have a private initiative - we are chasing it - and in the most sensitive area we want the private initiative? The most advantageous solution for the State would be the public-private partnership, the production of finished cannabis medicinal products in cooperation with a private investor. The State could allocate the required area and guarantee the control and security of the unit while the private investor, fully trained and experienced on the subject, could provide know-how under strict supervision of the EEO. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, the areas of rural prisons are ideal, which are still guarded. It should be noted here that safety is essential, as private storage should also be provided to an extent that is incomplete and inadequate. Of course, the prisoners should have no contact with the cultivation and production unit. The microcultures of the four acres or twenty - one years have no place in the project and the preservation of the finished products produced. This is of major importance because both the product and the social whole must be protected. Protection would be real if we did not legislate by common ministerial decisions in this particular case, as usual and the government wants. It is not possible to regulate the whole framework after the draft law has been passed. A better solution would be to issue a presidential decree, which would go through the 'cries' - within introductory words - of the Council of State. The production of finished cannabis medicinal products can be particularly profitable for the country, but cannot be based on a legislation that is clean and perforated. Strict terms and conditions are required in a sound legislative framework. Gentlemen of the Government, the bill is of a medium-term nature. The colleague from Larissa, Mr Papadopoulos, told you too. The bill could be implemented for two-three years in state fields - such as Almyros Prisons - by PPPs, some tens or hundreds of acres, with free planting or in glasshouses. Then you would have a real basis for going to free trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u92	Mrs Annetta Kavadia has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Balauras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, could I table the two amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Cavadia, can we give Mr.Poulakis the floor to be placed on the amendments and then follow you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u95	I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u96	Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. The first amendment has a general number of 1503 and a special 113, and these are provisions which are practically legal improvements to previous regulations. We have discovered, that is another code set up by the Ministry of Health's reserve, which we now use not for air cut off, but we have financed a market for medical equipment and hotel improvements in too many hospitals. We are talking about 6.5 million euros in 2016 and 12 million euros in 2017. In fact, in the previous arrangement, a code relating to the fact that these funding of the Ministry of Health, together with the Public Investment Program from national resources, need not cause an amendment to the Hospital Health Supplies Programme, as is the case with the subsidized programmes from the NSRF or from European resources. This speeds up the process of carrying out tenders for supplies of these kinds, because an amendment of the programme with an increase in the threshold is, unfortunately, going beyond six months with the Greek bureaucracy. At the same time, we say that, for the supplies of these hospitals - and what is needed - where there are still no technical specifications from the former EPC and the current EMCDDA, they can be drawn up by the hospitals or the bodies that will implement these supplies. Yes, Mr. Voridis, you are shaking your lips. But the point is, for example, that four years they made specifications for artificial kidney filters. And, you know, we didn't rule. So the same happens in too many materials, with various pressures on each other and on the other. "The reason in time, with a thousand paradoxes, is doing." Okay, if you need to answer something, you have to answer it. Also, one final point is that the latest health procurement programme of 2015, the adopted programme, which will be the last to be implemented, because from now on everything will be included in the budgets of the Ministrys or hospitals, we allow it to be amended without increasing its limit. This speeds up the process too much, because the founding law of EACH said it was executed as it has been approved. And basically such a legal problem has arisen with the inability to change, without changing the height, simply by transferring money from one code to another code that you need. That is the one amendment. The other amendment is general number 1504 and specific number 14. It is composed of four Articles. The first article attempts to put a class in an anarchy landscape, which existed with the non-interventional studies, the clinical studies that exist and are performed in the hospitals of the country. Non-interventional are the studies of phase 4, where we test the effectiveness of a medicine or treatment that has been approved, has been specifically indicated, circulate the medicines, patients are taking this medicine and are effectively monitoring a number of parameters that may occur either in the effectiveness of treatment, whether complications or combinations with other treatments, etc. The incision being made here is that a committee is essentially set up in the EOF, the Committee for Non Interventional Studies, by decision of the Ministry of Health on a proposal from the President of the EOF, which is seven-membered, consists of four doctors, two scientists from the Directorate for Pharmaceutical Studies and Research of the EOF and a hospital pharmacist. Its members shall not receive compensation. This committee should be consulted in order to be able to be approved in a nursing establishment or in a non-medical environment. A four-way contract shall be signed between the sponsor, the researcher, the legal representative of the nursing establishment or the competent ICM and the managing officer of the ELKEA. A relevant register shall be kept in which each non-interventional study is posted. And if there are any further issues, they will be settled by ministerial decision. But this thing begins to put a classroom in a situation in which everyone did what they wanted. And you know very well that through and through this process there was a way of making certain system actors, I'm not only saying doctors, for which things have seen the light of publicity lately. The second article of the amendment relates to the possibility of EEAS, as it has done with all its other providers - and we have had this regulated by law - to offset the amounts due to clawback to pharmaceutical companies with the amounts owed by the EEAS to pharmaceutical companies from the markets it makes in its pharmacy, so that we do not remove liquidity from the market on the one hand, nor do we have a debt overrun of pharmaceutical expenditure which is not collected. Of course, if the result of the offsetting is to pay the pharmaceutical company, it is possible - because now we are ending up with funds that are from old, from 2012, since 2013, from 2014, etc., because there are various legal complications - as did the other providers of the EEAS, including the private clinics, the rehabilitation centres and the laboratory and diagnostic centres, to give this in doses that are agreed on the basis of specific logic, as we did with others on the basis of how much the dose comes out, etc. There is a collection on a visible time horizon, without creating liquidity problems for small special pharmaceutical companies. I'm coming to the last article. Because I have heard a criticism of this article, I am basically starting from there. We are now legislating on the possibility of an intangible recipe. Because, as you know, about eighteen million pages A4 are the submissions, the paper. So today we are enacting the possibility of intangible prescriptions and intangible reference laboratory tests. There's the mechanisms. Extreme systems have been set up, and especially for the last year and a half in the EEA, which allow communication with the HICP system. This is the way the EEAS has been producing no new debt since January 2016, because it makes full clearing of the documents submitted by all its providers. We therefore have the possibility and all the necessary details that may be necessary. Because this also has derivative effects, and derivatives for the benefit of the patient. Because by having the printed recipe, which contains three medicines, but a patient takes four or five drugs, we have to print two recipes. Therefore, the patient must be charged with 1 euro per prescription, i.e. 2 euros. With the intangible recipe, this will be abolished, because in one form there will be all five medicines which can be submitted by the pharmacist electronically, intangible, to the EEAS, to be cleared and paid further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u98	The digital seal when will it be ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u99	She's in front, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u100	Minister, please be brief. Mr Barriott, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u101	That's right, the Minister says. You've got a lot of reformist stress, Mr. Barriotta. It's all done. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Polakis, let's finish it, please. They are waiting for speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u103	But you have one thing, too. Every time I talk, you'll have to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u104	But you're done anyway. You have explained the last paragraph of the amendment, and I think you have closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. Whatever details are needed, they will be regulated by ministerial decision and there will be a dialogue procedure with pharmacists in detail. But, to start this, we are today legislating on the possibility of an intangible recipe, which is not yet there. As far as electronic signature is concerned, this is the way, Mr Barriotta, in which we will have the certification that everything that is being done is actually being carried out. Because we know there are referrals, which are simply printed and executed without the patient's physical presence. With the electronic signature, there will be a physical presence certification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u106	Good. This can also be done in the context of parliamentary scrutiny by any Member of Parliament. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", which organizes the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and a trainer from the 6th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to plenary today to vote on an important draft government bill on the production of medicinal cannabis in our country, creating a first regulatory framework that will finally allow patients to access products that improve their quality of life. The medical value of cannabis has already been recognised in many foreign countries. I should briefly like to say that all the Member States of the European Union with the exception of three - Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania - have incorporated their cannabis and products into their medical systems. Domestic cultivation of small trees for individual therapeutic use, a solution which, in a second step, could be considered in terms of its application and in our country, has been permitted for patients in Israel, Canada, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Uruguay and seventeen states of the United States. This is the international reality and only those who blind, insisting on stereotypes, still stigmatize people who seek ways to relieve long-term pain due to diseases such as multiple sclerosis, cancer or aids. The scientific community internationally, but also in Greece, has recognized with study and consistent evidence the pharmacological properties of cannabis and its therapeutic role. The leadership of the Ministry of Health, recognizing the need to assess the modern experience regarding the use of cannabis medicine, has, as you know, recommended a working group led by the President of the National Medicines Agency and Deputy Professor of Pharmacology, Ms. Catherine Antoniou in July 2016. The members of the group included university, psychiatrists, patients' associations, lawyers and associates of the Ministers for Health and Justice and heads of directors of the two relevant ministries. The purpose of this working group was to formulate substantiated proposals with regard to the necessary legislation in order to allow for the medical use of medicinal products containing cannabis. This working group therefore delivers its conclusion in February 2017 and the Ministry of Health following the scientific suggestions regarding the pharmacological properties of cannabis, its similarity or differentiation compared to other substances, as well as the relevant international guidelines on the classification of narcotics, decides to transfer it from Table I classification in Table II, a process concluded in June 2017. In this way, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, opens the way for us to come to this day, namely that this draft law to be adopted should come to Parliament, so that patients who wish to choose to use cannabis products for medical purposes can do so without risking to be prosecuted for possession and trafficking of illegal drugs. In response to the social need that exists, under this draft law, a new article is added, Article 2A in L.4139/2013, which excludes cannabis from the provisions of Article 2 of the same Legislative Act on Continental Substances and State Monopoly, as the experience shown is that it is extremely difficult for the State to produce cannabis for medical use. So we are here: Natural or legal persons will be able under the strict conditions of the bill to produce, hold, transport, store and supply raw materials and substances for certain varieties of medicinal cannabis. These business activities are demarcated, regulated and strictly controlled by the State, and final products will be available either to the State monopoly for the disposal for medical purposes or to exports. I think it's more obvious what the economic benefits will be. The attraction of investment is being achieved, new jobs are being created, we have export aid, public revenues from taxation, and so on. In the coming years, ladies and gentlemen, the developments in the use of cannabis, the inevitable changes in the national legal framework for its use and the collapse of the negative social stereotype are expected to increase sharply the turnover involved. But you will allow me to say here that, in my view, all this is of little importance, compared to the relief that will bring to the lives of patients suffering from chronic illnesses, the decriminating of the use of cannabis. To gain access to the necessary drugs that their needs require is the primary good that this bill comes to serve. You'll tell me here: Is this bill solved all the problems? Obviously the answer is, no. For example, the amount of investment needed to meet the strict conditions laid down by the law makes it difficult to operate small candidate producers. Unfortunately, however, this is rather inevitable at the moment, given the misinformation and the risk that is spreading around the issue of the use of cannabis. Complaints and dangers that do not arise - as we speak of crops - of course in public speech, but are cultivated by specific conservative circles that produce prejudices and fearful syndromes, demonize all new ones, seeking through the spread of these very false news either to retain or to acquire voters. This obliges innovative measures to be voted on with potentially excessive safety barriers. So let us take this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, as the first major and brave step that opens the way for subsequent legislation. The government of SYRIZA, unlike previous governments that were restricted, will allow me to say, in words and in statements of good intentions without any real objection, that it is a one-way road to the "opening" of the manufacture and use of medicinal cannabis products. Obviously, there will need to be a CSR that must not be delayed in order to accurately delimit the next steps. With knowledge, therefore, with the establishment of social alliances, with the necessary information to public opinion, we are now taking important measures based on the benefit of patients and their access to appropriate treatment. That is why we are proud to vote in favour of this new law of the Greek state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u108	The next speaker is Mr Gerosios Balaouras from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased and a little more with this because, in the daring we are today bringing this bill together, I have also contributed with questions and moves in order to move on to these issues. Of course, we dare to bring back - and I would say - the position but at another level, what our country had stopped and in the 1930s in the first phase, with some preparations for cannabis medication and in the 1950s for the cultivation of industrial cannabis. Today, of course, I was impressed by the turn of the New Democracy, which in committee had given positive signals that it would vote for it, making a few remarks. In fact, in my position in the committee, I stressed this as a positive step. Today it seems to have taken the ears of the rapporteur and other Members of the New Democracy, not because they are dragged from conservative reflexes of society, but have entered another phase that sustains these conservative reflexes of society. I would like to stress the very positive position of colleagues from the Potami, the PASOK, the ANELs and some of the Centreroys, although I have been confused about this. Please see this again. You made a very good speech, but you ruined it in the end. Your speech does not go hand in hand with this. Don't be afraid! Fear still! Fear and do not see the properties of cannabis therapy. Malignancies, anorexia, epilepsy, pain, nausea, chemo, multiple sclerosis, even Alzheimer's. Many of us will even help us because of our age!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u110	There's documentation for Alzheimer's!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u111	Do you have any documentation, Mr. Mada? Give it to us to know what we're doing. We have already made it possible to prescribe cannabis-containing medicinal products. But these medicines, ladies and gentlemen, are imported. In other words, the Greek citizen will pay for the import of medicinal products, while the other smart countries - almost all in Europe, except for three - four at most - grow and produce cannabis or export. Israel is a country which does not have our own advantages. There is no water and it has very hot sunshine, unlike us sunshine, but in a very good state. It's making big exports to the United States. In the European Union, as I have told you, the pioneer is Spain, then Germany and Italy. Don't mention other states. In the United States, more than half of the states in that country have the cultivation and production of even euphoric cannabis. Canada also has a pioneering system. Let's go through these things. Do not come here and fill fears of society, which has already cultivated such conservative reflexes. Greece therefore has comparative advantages for both quality and quantity. I'd like to give a little parentheses. There are cosmetic companies - not cannabis - which import oreganos from the Netherlands for their cosmetics. They don't buy Greece, because there's no possibility of collecting enough oreganos. They should go to every field. A similar thing is what we want to do and avoid what is done with oregano: imports, black market, etc. Many people say, above all the Conservative side of the Golden Dawn and in part of the New Democracy, I do not want to identify it, but the JRC, on the other hand, but also conservative, that it is a good idea for drugs. What studies and surveys do this result from? Where does it come from? The opposite arises for drugs, if and if cannabis is allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u112	From what study?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u113	A lot of studies. I'll tell you. I'll give it to you later, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u114	Come on, get out of here and tell us what's going on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u115	I'll give them to you later. I didn't know you were going to interrupt me for this thing. We're taking careful steps. Many of us want more bolder steps. Well, they're very careful. But on the way, Mr. Ministers, we need to see improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u116	What do you want and don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u117	Wait and you'll listen. To vote today on this law and on the way to building a single central body that controls, promotes for export and testifies to the pharmaceutical cannabis. The final product is a question. A lot of people mentioned it. Even the Minister for Rural Development mentioned something about farmers, while other SYRIZA colleagues talked about seeds. We really need to see the Greek varieties how we are going to show them to have optimal results and not imported things. As for the decriminalisation of the simple use of cannabis, there is something embarrassing about cultivating the conservative reflexes of society. What's that? They catch a man who has few grams of euphoric cannabis. He is being arrested, troubled, exposed to local society or other societies, if he is an employee, and the result is being relieved of the court. That's what we need to see sometime. Another issue is the lifting of the criminal suffering and persecution of the kannabishop. They were legally imported from Germany, the Netherlands, Canada and I don't know where else, they got all the goods and they still get criminalised. That's what we need to solve. If we don't solve them, they won't be solved by any other government. As far as the industrial cannabis is concerned, which, incidentally, has begun and spread throughout Greece and has production units from Evros to Crete, some steps have to be taken. Nowadays, 0.2% of tetrahydrocannabinol is allowed, and could be up to 0.8%, in order to allow the production of edible products. Finally, in the permits we are going to give, there is a clause in addition to the tax which each company will pay for. Because there is a special tax in the United States and Canada - the charges for the local area for both schools and universities. I call on the other forces in Parliament to say that this is a bold piece of legislation. We must all dare to do so and not just one party or two or three parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u118	Mr Georgios Kasapidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are losing a great opportunity to introduce an integrated system for the introduction of tuberculosis into the national health system. Under the responsibility of the government, which chooses a single plant, which has indeed a medical use, hundreds of others are excluded that could have been incorporated into a more general description of what plant therapy is and how this can be incorporated into the National Health System, to give solutions to hundreds of diseases, but also to create all these necessary development conditions through agricultural production, rural development, processing and marketing within the country of all these raw materials which have either a medical or medical use or food supplements. This is a great void, Mr Ministers of Government, and it cannot be restored in words and vows that it will cover a huge amount of the need that really exists in the treatment of such substances and much more in terms of the development perspective. Here, you literally feed rabbits with rocks. This is a bill that, as most colleagues have said, is sceptical and ambiguity about such a serious issue that has a positive and negative impact on both our Greek society and our economy. It had to check the negative effects of the use of cannabis in medicine in a clear and rigorous manner. There is also the conclusion of the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which you obviously did not take seriously, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, it concludes that ‘in the light of the above,’ it analyses all these reservations it has and the competent authority, ‘it would be appropriate to describe in more detail the scope of the conditions and conditions to be delegated’. This joint ministerial decision described in the bill calls for the Scientific Committee of Parliament to be more specific than the law, because there are many risks that we cannot avoid in this general description you have in the law. The development dimension also raises a question to the dear Minister for Rural Development, as regards farmers who are interested in cultivating. What will you tell them about the final product they are asked to produce and deliver to the market? In what quantities, at what prices, with which investments, at what cost of production? These are unanswered questions, which is why my dear colleague, Mr Papadopoulos, has thrown the ball into the seed. We've all solved it, only the introduction of seed has hurt us! Clearly we must start with the propagating material. Not only on cannabis, but horizontally on all aromatic, pharmaceutical or noble plants. Thank God our country is one of them. It is the richest country, in this geographical width of the planet, in biodiversity, in genetic material that can find expression in both medicine, medicine and food supplements, with many other synergies in rural development, medical tourism, the promotion of these natural resources through our unparalleled natural environment and our historical heritage. Unfortunately, you do not evaluate such a way as to incorporate the possibility of characterising certain driers using medicine in the traditional way - through traditional use, that is - even though described by Directive 24/2004 of the European Union. You have also not taken into account the presence of the European Medicines Agency. We reclaimed as a country - and we did well - its offices here in Greece. Unfortunately, we lost it. His vice president is a Greek professor at the Pharmaceutical School. He has made a hundred and seventy monographs that can be used as herbal remedies. Of seventy, at least one hundred fifty are herbs of our country, either selfish or endemic. We can have an advantage, provided we make use of it by integrating it into this framework that I have told you that it is missing. So what the draft law owes and unfortunately does not do so is to support effectively the positive effects on health by means of actions in agriculture, with targeted applications and use of medicine. Unfortunately, it's a big gap in this bill. So it is the intention of the government, even in future, Minister - since you do not want to - to change your mind to change the procedure of this legislative initiative - to bring in a draft law which defines the introduction of tuberculosis into the national health system. Here there is ready material that we can discuss in committee, with concrete proposals that are exploited by the six and a half thousand genius plants in our country, with the appropriate choice of at least four hundred, five hundred, which is officinalis, pharmaceuticals, which is not the cannabis that is sativa, edible. This is ready material that comes from the past, from our historical heritage and tradition, from Dioskourides, from Hippocrates and the later, Galenus and the others, who have such deep knowledge of the medical and pharmaceutical use of these plants that we expel it. And not only does the Western world slowly adopt it, but Asia, India, have established the National Health System, the so-called 'yunani', from Ionia, from Hippocrates, and we close our eyes to these initiatives that work perfectly in India and China and go to discover the wheel. [[At this point the doorbell ends the gentleman’s speaking time is ringing. Plenipotentiary]] These are some proposals which, unfortunately, you have not taken into account, Minister, because you have avoided consultation. However, so that we do not miss the opportunity, since the door of plant treatment in Greece opens, even in this limited way, I ask you and I propose that you bring back such a legislative initiative, because, as you understood, from all the wings there are positive suggestions and wishes to support this initiative in order to do something really development. It is something that the Agriculture Minister will also be interested in seeing, that is to say, the synergies of all these pharmaceutical plants through an integrated production reconstruction plan, for pharmaceutical aromatic plants. To be selected from the thousands of four hundred sixty-three who are endemic and do not exist anywhere else in the world, that is to say, they are natural monopolies, and if they are organized agriculturally and economically well, they will be economical monopolies, but not at the hands of some large multinationals, as will happen with cannabis, but they will be in the hands of the local people, as is the case in my own country of Kozani, where sixteen local communities, communities, live exclusively or supplemented by this pharmaceutical herbal medicinal product, which does not have that indication yet, but is potentially.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. Another twenty three villages in Chios live almost exclusively or complementaryly from this endemic, unique plant in the world for which they have conducted clinical studies and are now pharmaceutical by prescribing. There are such studies - and I close with that, Mr President - of Greek plants, which, unfortunately, you also do not take into account, but only limited your interest in cannabis. Why didn't you consider the iron, the mountain tea, for which the Germans studied Alzheimer's? You said, ladies and gentlemen, he'd need us. Have some mountain tea every day. The Germans say so. You have not taken into account the fact that the Italians cultivate it and make anticancer medicines which have the greatest benefit in society, in vulnerable groups and in greater developmental content. Also, thyme, for which a recent study of Medical Athens and medicine says thyme honey is directly anticancer. So there is a body of such clinical studies, Minister - you are a doctor and you understand what I am saying to you - who are untapped. There is a lot of material - and I close with it - that we are prepared, from the standpoint of the New Democracy and with our President who believes in this prospect, to support such an initiative that will unite us at least into this downhill, where unfortunately the Greek people are looking to find a hope from somewhere to catch and say that we can achieve something better for our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the Athens Student Organisation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next speaker is Mr George Psychogios from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is neither the first nor last country to attempt with this draft law to integrate its medicinal cannabis and products into its medical system. In fact, all the states of the European Union except for three - Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania - have already done so in some way. This is also provided for in Resolution 30/1 of April 2006 of the United Nations General Assembly, where the directives on national policies on availability and accessibility for controlled substances - drugs from the World Health Organisation were adopted. At this point we have to say that this issue has been debated for about two years, Minister, has dealt with public opinion, and recently you have had an event in the U.S.S.A. where you presented the relevant bill. He's neither lightning nor coming at the last minute. Of course the New Democracy colleagues should also look for their colleagues in the People's Party and see how they vote in such bills in their countries and in the European institutions and then discuss them. The government of SYRIZA, therefore, for the first time, recognizing the global prospects for cannabis medicinal products, is carefully attempting to change the legislative framework. It is about meeting a social demand and regulating a reality. In July 2016, a first step was taken with the establishment of a working group at the Ministry of Health, the conclusion of which highlights the pharmaceutical value of cannabis. Then came its transfer from table A to table B of the Drugs Act in June 2017. It was the minimum necessary legislation to allow products of cannabis medicinal products to be legally produced and marketed in Greece and this draft law further regulates their domestic production. In September 2017, forty-six Members of SYRIZA had noted, in a relevant question to the relevant ministers, that the conditions of the state monopoly were suffocating. They do not serve the needs of patients, do not ensure the availability, accessibility and reasonable cost of products. They do not contribute economically and do not exploit the development prospects of cannabis pharmaceuticals, attract investment, create new jobs and, of course, strengthen exports. This was something that was also found by the bodies that came to the House, but also at the development conference that we recently had in the Peloponnese, where people from the Chambers and Producers asked for the bill to be voted on. Also, the resolution of the forty thousand people on the decriminalisation of the drug cannabis lodged with the Minister of Health called for our understanding and effective actions, "let us stop being illegal just because we want to live". That's what patients were saying. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must think very seriously in this Chamber of people who are cancerous, are positive, suffer from multiple sclerosis and who are trying to deal with their problems and their living needs, while also suffering retsination, stigmatisation and danger of being arrested at all times. The solution chosen by the Government therefore is to combine the import of preparations with a model of production by individuals under strict state control, as all business is demarcated, regulated and strictly controlled by the State. It is worth noting that the Ministry of Health, which is the expedited Ministry, is already working towards the introduction of specific regulations. The aim is to provide specific medicinal products through e-prescription, patient register, treatment protocols that will be created. These databases, which will link the disease to the medicinal product and treatment, together with the scientific research it will start, will contribute to the acquisition of the necessary and additional knowledge that is currently missing due to the uncontrolled use of the cannabis medicinal product. We know very well that we still need a lot of work and we are here to monitor and create the appropriate institutional framework. At this point I would like to put another dimension on the subject. In a recent interview by the Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party in the newspaper "EKO" by Geronimo De Sousa, who supports the Portuguese Government, the following question was raised: that the line separating the Left and the Right is basically employment relations. But it's not just her. The Left owes people who are invisible, unseen, marginalized and stigmatized, to bring them to the surface and to give them rights. This government has brought many such provisions to Parliament and implemented them in practice. You will allow me to mention some of them. The universal access of uninsured persons to the health system without discrimination, nationality for second generation immigrant children, the cohabitation pact and gender identity for the LGBTK community, the abolition of Type C prisons, the provisions for minors and patients of LGBT in prisons, the treatment measures as alternative measures for penalties for persons with mental disorders, the recent decision of the OAS where they have the right to register as refugees, asylum seekers, abused women and homeless persons. Of course, besides this, we must also mention the bachelorship for foreign land workers, which was not on your day and we were driven to Manolad. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close by saying that we are here and we are listening to society. That's where we come from, that's where we're accounting. We are aware of the difficulties facing us very well and we will continue with this logic and work and legislate for the benefit of the social majority, because that is also what our policies and our principles are stressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and four educational attendants from the University of Patras Experimental Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Katsafada has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the moral obligation as a young man in principle and then as a Member of Parliament to speak today about the compared legislation in that it is a piece of legislation that puts the new generation at risk, but also to inform parents, who will unfortunately face dangerous situations through this bill. But I am sorry, Minister, for something else. I am sorry because I see that as long as the government realizes that nothing is coming out of it, it will become increasingly dangerous for the country and for the citizens with such bills as the one you are tabling. Unfortunately, it will take place in the spasmodic acts of dubious utility and functionality, such as the specific bill we are debating today. I want you to believe me, I'm pretty diligent in the terms I use. It is clear that the use of cannabis for pharmaceutical purposes is a very serious case, ladies and gentlemen, to handle this government, which, unfortunately, is constantly showing us examples of curiosity, irresponsibility and dangerous improvisation. That's the bill you filed. Five pages, Minister. With this bill you are not telling us about the need for drug cannabis, which the New Democracy and no party disputes. You tell us how you will produce cannabis, which will be used for pharmaceutical purposes. These five pages are. In the first place, therefore, this bill should have a broad and serious consultation. Did that happen? Oh, no. Why didn't it happen? "Because we did not have time to do this," the government says through the relevant Minister, a response that shows the lack of responsibility and seriousness, even when a draft law was drawn up in July 2016. Suddenly, then, this bill comes to Parliament without a proper consultation and concise procedures. I hear the SYRIZA colleagues - and I am indeed concerned, because only 12 people have asked to take part in today's debate, I expected that the number of SYRIZA colleagues who would participate - but also government officials to argue in favour of the draft, stressing that, with the possibilities available to produce cannabis, there will be strong investment interest and even investors from abroad to invest in this area. I cannot imagine that you are too desperate to use such arguments, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. First try not to hamper investments, which you have found and have been ready for implementation or other investment activities, and then you need to strengthen investment with the cannabis sector. Although the way you legislate, what I imagine is that you are probably creating a framework in which you are addressing other types of "investors". First of all, Minister, all the operational and regulatory framework of the draft law is not regulated by the provisions that exist within it, but will be governed by joint ministerial decisions, which will be adopted in the future. That is what a government has been saying, which within thirty-two months has been unable to adopt the ministerial decisions on the activation of the electronic issue of building permits, when the electronic system was already ready when you received the power. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a bill with only three articles on which two other ministerial decisions will be needed. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So what prevented you, in addition to the roughness and purpose, from incorporating the relevant arrangements which will be provided for in subsequent ministerial decisions in the articles of the bill? Unfortunately, however, there are other questions. Firstly, what will be the procedure for issuing licences for the cultivation of medicinal cannabis? The explanatory statement refers to strict criteria. Can we know who she is? Twenty-one years of age or the white criminal record? Are these the criteria that you only set? Secondly, there is no reference to the spatial conditions for the installation of the units. There are no criteria for where all of this will be done. So could we, Minister, have such units next to schools? Could we have such units next to sports spaces? We'd like an answer. Thirdly, how is the control and protection of these installations ensured? There are remote areas, as you know, where either there is no police force or the existing police structures are subordinated. How, then, can control be seriously ensured? I'm a congressman at the 1st Piraeus. Do you know, Minister, that the security department throughout Piraeus has only one security patrol that moves? A shift is coming out. Do you want to tell me that there will be sufficient police to control these units throughout the Greek region? Fourthly, what quantities of hemp can be produced? How will they be available? So these, Minister, are some serious questions which should be answered. Fifth, a storage and storage limit is fixed for five years. So I ask how this check will be carried out and who to see if these stocks will remain. And what happens next when they cannot be sold or sold? What about those stocks after five years? Sixthly, there is also talk of export activity as regards cannabis produced on Greek territory. The specific question now is whether these exports will be channelled to operators and companies for medical and pharmaceutical use or channelled to companies active in methodical use. So we risk having very unpleasant results as you can see, Minister. We risk having an uncontrolled and massive - unfortunately - crop with total loss of control. We must be bold in politics, Minister. SYRIZA youth has spoken of decriminating cannabis. Several of your colleagues in and outside Parliament have spoken of the decriminalisation of cannabis. It would be better if, instead of discussing cannabis, you had the courage to have the courage to have the courage and to have come to have an important debate on cannabis. That is the reality, Minister. I am listening to my fellow Members - I told you at the beginning of my position - to talk about the usefulness of cannabis medication. Who questioned that? We sit down and tell you it's dangerous how you legislate. We come and tell you that you open ferries to all those who can produce cannabis without control and create a problem in Greek society and you tell us about the benefits of cannabis medicine. Sure. Sit down and talk to us about the benefits of cannabis medication and you have not opened a serious debate, as the previous speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Kasapidis, did, for various other Greek plants, which have beneficial and therapeutic properties. You obviously don't care about that. Only the cannabi is of interest to you. We must, ladies and gentlemen, on these issues, in a country that is experiencing this very hard economic crisis, against a youth who is disappointed, in a youth that experiences unemployment, experiences persecution from its own country, to be serious. We must be serious and shield her. To shield her, Minister, I understand one thing today that you are incapable of doing so, so the political situation for the country will have to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Gregory Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I was going to start my speech otherwise, but I cannot go into the dilemma to comment on what I heard from the previous speaker. Don't talk about seriousness. If you were serious, Greece would not make it to the memorials. Let's go down. You're talking about whether greenhouses will be next to schools. The draft law speaks of four acres or more. Have you seen many greenhouses beside schools? You're from Piraeus, too. Tell me, how much does he have in Piraeus?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u128	What do you think? In the periphery...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u129	These are not serious arguments. It's not possible. In a urban settlement there'll be four and ten acres and the other one will make it a greenhouse and won't make it a building?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u130	Where are the schools? In the square?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u131	What are you talking about? Have you ever seen them being alone in villages, in farmhouses, miles away? Looks like you're living somewhere else. Anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Provisions on the Production of Cannabis Final Products'. Today we are discussing the legalisation of cannabis medicinal products - and I would like to inform you - for medical use and not for entertainment purposes. At yesterday's meeting of the committees where the social partners came, we saw that the overwhelming majority were in agreement with the draft law. We have heard the OECD representative agree with the medical use of cannabis and propose a national record of doctors who will prescribe cannabis preparations. In my question to the President of the Panhellenic Federation of People with Sclerosis against Plaka, he told me that it was twelve to fourteen thousand of the patients in Greece who have this problem and, of course, he is asking as soon as possible for this bill to be legislated so that they can have access to the medications of cannabis and not try to import them from abroad. Some patient clubs suggest giving the right to self-cultivation. The wars, however, of the bill claim that this will allow use for entertainment purposes as well as for medical purposes. I therefore propose that the present draft law or the CRLs, which will be adopted for this draft law, should be given the right to those patients who are judged by doctors who are treated for free of charge to receive preparations from the drug cannabis. Enterprises authorized to cultivate cannabis will be obliged to grant up to 10% of their production to the Greek State to meet the above needs. I also propose adding to this draft law that the shareholders of public limited companies, as well as the workers of these companies, have not been convicted of drug trafficking and trafficking offences other than those of other crimes. I believe that there must be very strict conditions for those who are going to be able to cultivate cannabis. In listening to the Members of the New Democracy I conclude that they have a positive view of the draft law, but they will vote against it. So I suggest that they reconsider and vote for the draft law, because I am sure that you will shortly be in agreement and then we will have every right to remind you of your current position. Two are the reasons why everyone has to vote on this draft law. The first and most important reason for me is that we will give access to thousands of our fellow citizens who need cannabis preparations to relieve their illness. The second reason is obvious: the creation of new investments in our country and the creation of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law we are debating today on the production and processing of cannabis medicine in our country for the purpose of producing final medicinal products, we are basically responding to a constant request from our fellow citizens, who are unfortunately weak. The scientific community, specialized researchers, but also the World Health Organisation have concluded that cannabis sativa L, with a high tetrahydrocannabinol content, does not belong to opiates, which the Ministry of Health took into account and implemented by transferring cannabis and resin from Table A, Table B of the Drug Act in June 2017. Scientific research demonstrates the possibility of giving it to a number of diseases and diseases, such as osteoporosis, fibronyalgia, in case of cancer and the symptoms caused by the treatments, mainly chemotherapeutic treatments, autism, epilepsy and multiple sclerosis, as well as lastly considered to be the only medicine in autoimmune diseases. Its effect is analgesic, antiemetic, anticonvulsant, anticonvulsant, has oxidative effect and helps reduce intraocular pressure. For years on a global scale, and not only in our country, patients have been seeking to legitimise drug cannabis preparations. Basically, these people want to stop having an iniquity or irregularity status in these kinds of formulations, so that they do not have to resort to foreign markets, to matters of dubious quality and origin, and indeed, while they are very expensive. Many countries have acceded to the creation of an appropriate legislative framework for legal formulations of this type, but also to the possibility of producing and disposing. We, unfortunately, are unable to protect these people even from the possibility of being arrested, because in their efforts to deal with their illness and their everyday life, criminals can easily be called criminals. So, in July 2016, we took the first step, with the establishment of a working group on the medical use of cannabis in the Ministry of Health. Then came the transfer of the cannabis and its resin from table A, in Table B and today, with this bill, the domestic production is also regulated. We are therefore trying to make a significant contribution to the rights of patients with chronic diseases. Because we believe that the patient cannot under any circumstances be characterised as a criminal, but is a citizen with rights. In fact, I would like to mention the resolution of the forty thousand people on the decriminalisation of the drug cannabis lodged with the Minister of Health two years ago and to whom they said: 'We look forward to your understanding and effective actions, so that we can stop being illegal just because we want to live'. Our intention, therefore, is to support all those who need our help, that is to say, to satisfy a social demand and to regulate a reality. This draft law, therefore, has emerged from our attempt to meet the basic needs of patients. In this debate, however, we have noticed that there is also a huge investment interest. We therefore believe that it is our duty to regulate the issue of both cultivation and processing of the plant for pharmaceutical use. The draft law provides, with strict criteria, for the possibility of granting and authorising vertically-integrated processing units which, through the cultivation of hemp varieties, will also produce finished medicinal products. Licences shall be issued strictly and for vertically integrated units only, with a total area of at least four acres. They will be systematically monitored and in cases of breach of the terms and conditions they will be able to be revoked immediately by the relevant Ministers, Overall, that is, we create the right framework so that the benefits to the economy and the state of productive investment in this sector are multiple, with the first benefit of creating many jobs. Our country has those elements that favour such investment initiatives. It offers, in other words, reduced heating costs due to climate, high intensity and sunshine duration, easy access to the European market and small research and know-how costs in relation to other European Union countries. The pharmaceutical use of cannabis is a rapid growing economic sector and in our country it is expected to exceed EUR 100 billion over the next five years and can ensure thousands of jobs. Looking at the numbers worldwide, the market for cannabis medicine in 2025 is expected to reach $55 billion. The market in cannabidiol products for medicines, food and food supplements is expected to grow by 700% by 2020, exceeding $2 billion. And finally, the cannabis food market is estimated at EUR 200 million, while the corresponding European at 40 million and has a steady growth trend in recent years. We see, then, that by exploiting our country's comparative advantages we can create an investment climate of confidence, which will bring enormous economic benefit. Colleagues, without fear, without preservatives, we are introducing legislation on the cultivation and processing of medicinal cannabis to cover first the needs of people suffering from diseases who can be treated with these medicinal products on cannabis, but also because it opens up a huge investment field in which we can as a country lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u135	Friends and opponents, politics, in addition to inefficiency, corruption, rousfetti, the party state, in addition to the atheists who are transferred from party to party, of course always going to the largest one, or call you Kuveli and make the rest of your political career as a substitute for Panos Kammenos - suffers from hypocrisy over time. Politicians who have their personal lives, their choices, their passions, are in one direction and try their public image, their public word being in another direction. We lived with the Symbol of Symbol, we lived with the gender identity, we now live it by discussing cannabis. I expected more Members to dare take a position compatible with their actions, compatible with the lives of their constituents, and compatible with evolution, Mr Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u136	I haven't done anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u137	Obviously! I say this because you look at me very interestingly, which is why I have addressed you. I didn't have you in my mind when I wrote this. But because you looked at me very interestingly, I talked to you. And I'm going to go a little further. I think that local societies are laughing at the outrages of some parliamentarians against the hashish on the occasion of this bill. They laugh, because people in local communities are very acquainted with each other. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, cannot remain anachronistic here as well, blocking anachronistic approaches. We must protect the Greeks from the illicit trafficking of dangerous substances. We must collide with the drug promotional circuits that are devoid of illegal trade. Bold and responsible people ask us. Watch out for the Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry of the University of Athens in collaboration with EKIDAP systematically detects the waters of Saronicos and the urban sewage that ends in Psytalia. What's the conclusions? Drugs and drugs in excess. Many antibiotics, many antidepressants, drugs without, limits, but that's not what we're talking about today. Watch out, the interesting evidence the researchers make about cannabis. Our urban waste water from Athens, which ends in Psythtalia in the 2015, 2016 and 2017 analyses, testify that about 12% of the Athens population systematically uses cannabis. Each week it is consumed in Athens from 380 to 450 kg of cannabis products, that is every day about 60 to 70 kg. That's why I'm talking about hypocrisy. As you will be aware, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that cannabis cultivation in Greece was interrupted at the beginning of the 20th century following pressure and demand from British diplomacy. If the Greeks did not stop the cultivation of hemp and the export of hashish - because they were interested in stopping - the British would no longer buy Greek grapes. Today we are on the reverse road. The northern ones are looking in the South cannabis of good quality, biological and not genetically modified. The market for medicinal cannabis in Europe is now touching, some tens of billion euros a year. In Colorado, U.S.A., which is highly produced cannabis, we have a 30 000-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hedging drug, because already more than half-states in America have allowed it to use drugs, while four States allow entertainment. In all European countries, the possession of a micro-quota has been decribed, in Belgium up to three grams, and in Estonia up to seven parties five grams and in Spain the user can cultivate the micro-quantity he consumes. And now it's time for Greece to decide what to do. The river has said it long ago: we must allow the use of cannabis. We must think of the thousands of people, the patients seeking relief and less pain, we must give them dignity. The scientific medical teams, set up everywhere in the world and in Greece, now come to the same conclusion: the benefits are more of the side effects, which clearly exist, in a number of diseases, such as epilepsy, cachexia, anorexia, HIV, chemotherapy nausea, and necrosis associated with multiple sclerosis. And, of course, it is important to alleviate from pain, from neuropathic pain to chronic pains associated with serious diseases. So we must give doctors the right to decide. When doctors consider that other medicines cannot help, they should be able to prescribe cannabis medicinal products as a preparation, as oil, as a flower, which the patient can obtain from the pharmacy by covering the costs of the insurance funds. It has been happening for over a year, since January 2017, and in conservative - in our minds - Germany, to set an example. Patients there can be supplied by cannabis extract or dried flowers of the plant and public funds of course cover these products, and recently German police officers, like the Greens, have asked for the full decriminalisation of the use of hashish in their country. Personal culture for medical use you know that it is legal in Canada, in seventeen states of the United States, in Germany, in Belgium, in Spain, and in several other European states it is simply a pit. Mr Minister, today's bill should have a relevant provision for personal culture for medical cannabis use. But Potami, despite the shortcomings and weaknesses of the project - and has many weaknesses in the bill - will defend this first step and we propose that after a year of trial application we discuss methodically and with evidence of the decriminalisation and the recreational use of cannabis by adults. Do not keep our eyes closed in front of uncontrolled and illegal hashish trafficking. Decriminalisation - experience from other countries has shown this - will in particular help children, who are always attracted by the forbidden one. Scientists conclude that cannabis use does not cause more problems than systematic alcohol use. I am not just talking about the consequences of the organization, I am talking about the social consequences. I would remind you that alcohol-consumption traffic is the first cause of death in the ages of forty years. The legal use of cannabis will therefore not cause problems, if we are careful, studied and controlled. Let me report one more clue. In the states of the American border with Mexico, the legal medical use of cannabis, which has now passed, threw the robberies by 20% and reduced the homicides by 40%, as drug cartels are constantly losing ground, constantly losing customers. So what does progress say to us? I, too, dare to speak and unfortunately there are no other leaders here today to speak and see their views. What does progress tell us? Legal, controlled trade, negligence of use and occupation for adults and, as I have said, personal farming - in Ireland the limit for personal farming has been set on five plants per user - with strict rules to prevent minors from accessing and, consequently, the use by minors. Because here we have to keep our ears and eyes open. I discussed the needs of my current position with a DEA officer. The expansion of schools is very great and the ringing of circuits has become very difficult, as students themselves are moving small quantities. But no problem will be solved if we close our eyes in reality. No problem will be solved by putting an officer out of every school. If we don't care and let a lost chance each time and let others pull the snake out of the hole, the problem day after day will grow. Unless, of course, some want to be Auslonite's caricatures in that movie that kept shouting "spirits and morals". So, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, I would expect that more Members from all the sides of this House will be taken seriously, without the political cost being feared in this regard too. Greece needs the social alliance of the progressive, informed and bold. And the river will continue to strengthen and provoke it, boldly and responsiblely, as I have told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that, although very little, we will support the issues raised in this draft law, in the way Mr Barriots and Mr Psarianos have said in two speeches completed by the President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, in two speeches. But I want to make two - three other points on other issues, and I will also come to the essence of the draft law. Firstly, when it comes to reshape, there were a lot of surprises, for comedy, for gigantic comments. Beyond what has been heard, I would like to say to the National Representation that the way in which we can characterise it and be very clear is that it is a reshape of embarrassment and absolute poverty. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you need to realize that the weather has passed and most of the cage sands have passed at the bottom. You're the least left. What you are doing, even with regard to intra-government formation, will be judged on the polls, where the country is driven at a speedy pace and, in any case, in a few months' time. The second point I would like to make is that I am now reading something in the press about privatization of the "ELELANDS", 51% of the shares and the passage of the administration of "ELELANDS". Another time, about fifteen days ago, I have said here that the Minister responsible must bear in mind that he is already beginning to have problems and political problems with the law. This must be careful. Since it seems that this news is gradually becoming translated into practice, in the thoughts developed by the Government and the "ELELANDS" I have asked for a record of what happened in terms of results with other privatizations, which we have supported or which we have also made. Did he achieve the standard? Is it winning more of the Greek State than taxes? What's happened? In your hands, an experience is gathered. This experience is needed by the National Representation. My third introductory point is that I now read that the Preliminary Examination Committee on Health and NOVARTIS begins on Monday at noon, 13 days after Parliament's plenary session. Is that how you're gonna take it? Why this week did not it be established in a House to move forward? Keep in mind that since Monday her work must go openly and soon - I mean go quickly, not stay for a while. The work must go quickly. You don't have unlimited time. You will not discuss the matter without the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Why are 12 days lost now? However, since Monday, you will be dealing with our proposals to cover the work of the committee live from the Parliament's channel for the full examination of matters, without limitations. Infidelity must also enter the table, come to light all and the presence of witnesses there, as well as all the former ministers and Prime Ministers concerned. There's gonna be work there. You're not going to cover up everything and make it a ball. There's gonna be work there. Fourthly, I am obliged, because when he first started - and indeed speaking for more than 10 minutes last week about the Tinos Foundation, which we saw here as a legislative initiative coming from Members, and we discussed it - the majority parliamentary representative, Mr Xydakis, stood with great attention for 10 minutes on the subject, commenting on something that I said in my short speech, but saying other things. Because this House has voted to abolish my own legislative intervention, I consider this to be an open matter. In the debate I had since the vote in Parliament on the matter, I understood that the arguments of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative were not correct. They had problems of logic and historical order. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, for the completeness of my remarks - because I had only raised a point of order, I had not gone ahead - to say the following. First of all, I would like to repeat with two phrases that the Charter of the Church, as currently in force, is an attempt by the House, which actually validates what comes from the Church. The House won't tell the Church how it will be run. The House simply receives with the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs what the Church proposes to it and weighs them against the obligation of the House to respect the fundamental rights and all the other issues that are the obligation of a government and a parliament outside the specific issue it regulates. I raised this issue, that this was not done as a procedure and that the Charter of the Church was amended without the procedure being followed. I've been answered a lot. In particular, however, I have not been answered. Now we're going to the specials. Mr Xydakis says - and I have tabled a text, which I have promptly urged me to take. And thankfully I did, because I saw that what he says about a covenant, that it is - it says - a testament of the vet since 1823, which we cannot intervene. And it says that my own legislative effort has been an interference. I took that document and opened it. Indeed, on the first page, my colleague is absolutely right. That's what he says. However, on the second page the terms of the first page are interpreted. This is not about owners, as they translated the owners, nor about a covenant, because the sacred temple or the foundation - from where you want to catch it - was not private property to be disposed of after death with a will, as my colleague understood. From 1823 until Otto came, I think three or four attempts had been made. The four Commissioners, firstly, decided on the issues of their operation and adopted them in the form of a statute, which was amended three times. That's what this is about. From 1832 onwards, as a supervised body by the Greek State, the matter was regulated by law. And my speech followed that logic two centuries later. What logic did it follow? Not that from then on, until my own intervention was empty. Legislative interventions were sometimes made. And my intervention involved ministerial activity at this level on a proposal that came from below. I didn't think about it. How should I know? The Church suggested it to me. I considered that this is not indifferent to the other issues that this institution has, I felt that there is no fundamental rights issue and I said that the road to this House is open. And that's what I suggested. I took responsibility and said that this must be done. I didn't have any MPs calling it my place. I said it myself. Because to be afraid, if we think something is right. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there was a proposal from Members - it was supposed - but the government had drunken it. The theoretical coverage of this effort was wrong, which I would point out and stress. Furthermore, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Xydakis, very much of his speech outside the legal and legal texts, supported it on the need for these issues to be co-operated with the citizens of the Church. Only he forgot to tell us that, through the amendment, the representative of the Church in the administration of the institution ceases to have the right to vote. But we're saying more, we're doing more in practice. I wanted to raise these issues. The dialogue will remain open. This amendment became the law of the state, but not for long. In any case, there is one issue. I am also waiting for my colleague, if he wishes, to express his counterpart to what I am saying today in addition to the point of order. Let's go to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barriots, Mr Psarianos and Mr Theodorakis, President of the Potami, said that we are voting on it. Yeah, we're voting on it. But we must support this vote. I said in advance, Mr Ministers, that I heard only Mr Apostleus, who, Mr Apostleu, criticised the New Democracy. And I wonder why you don't vote for it. I heard Mr Vlasi this morning, and I did not understand that he was having a substantial disagreement. In any case, the government must know that what it brings here today is a small step and not courageous. Anyone who has courage is facing the cannabis issue directly. In the 1990s, I had a text in the 'NEA', I tabled it, entitled 'Narcotics and laws', where I was openly placing myself. [[At this point the Member of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I also explained in the literature how wrong our legislation is. Steps have been taken. The years have passed. But today was what Mr. Barriots says. He is not punished - in court he is not punished, while the law provides for punishment - the user of a small quantity, the user of a small quantity, but as his colleague says nicely. In trials he goes, his problem becomes a personal problem with his social space coke. Do you have the courage to change what's wrong? You're changing it. You don't say to your electorate: "Out of intervention" to understand that you have made an intervention and you haven't changed the essentials in the end. What now is predicted here? In a fearful way and with a bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, which is a terrible act, it is oversized. We will see it in the next few days, of course, when this law is implemented. Two articles have the law and you have an intervention in Article 1 which is unequivocal to the courage and initiative you take Article 2. If you see the restrictions referred to in Article 2, you will understand how Article 1. One cannot live in Article 1. Please also see Article 2 to understand. Anyone who has courage to do something does it. He doesn't do it in a quarter of that. He's taking the initiative, and he's moving on. We, as a party, expressed courageously. It is not only today's three speakers, but Mr Papandreou is also yesterday. I share Mr Papandreou's approach absolutely. And I wonder, you addressing the Greek society, entitled 'We have intervened on cannabis', what will you tell them when they understand what you have finally done? At political level, you're lying to this range and you're lying to her. You don't do what you say. You're saying bigger things and more, I'm bold enough, but in practice you're too scared. You want to do something? I remember myself as Minister for transplantation. I've had too many hierarchs across the street. I went ahead and made the law. I don't understand if I'm right. If I'm not right, I have to listen to what other people tell me and weigh and conclude. Where I'm convinced that I'm right, I'll move on. I don't care if anyone's having any objections. I'll try to convince him in the procedures provided for by the laws and the constitution. In opposition to conscience, in a feared Greece, in the 1980s, I was the man who drafted the draft law of the late Gerasimos Arsenis. And what didn't sound at that time, that they're supposed to be traitors of the country, etc. And that the service will be abolished in the army. They heard a lot of nonsense. If you have courage, you do. That minister had courage and we did it. If you want to do something, you're not afraid, and if you think what you're doing is right. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft law has the features that I have mentioned and which so many executives of our side, centre and centre-left have supported in this House. In the morning, I heard my colleague Vlasse of the New Democracy saying: 'Yes, my child, but everything goes to ministerial decisions'. It's not wrong. In fact, for the Ministerial Decision of 1 paragraph 4, the Scientific Research Directorate tells you that the authorisation is in trouble. I'm not standing in law school. The other guy will tell you you're privatizing. But I have a duty to comment on it and to see it. However, ministerial decisions are a good method for the moment, because too many issues of this problem are technical, it is detailed. They need ministerial decisions, but we must not go to the extreme instead of the House being accounted for, the Ministries with huge powers. Because what Mr. Barriot is saying is right. What's that betraying? That you brought a draft law with rapid parliamentary procedures, and we see later. That's good, my colleague said it. Law and we see. "Law and see" is not good practice. Good practice is that I have conceived it, I have the courage to deal with it, I bring it to the National Representation, I give my battle here with those who object, I pass it if the majority want it, and then I resolve the individual detailed and technical issues. This is where we get back. It's a law-authorization. Critical topics are taken after administration by ministerial decisions. It is right to grant authorisations, but it is wrong to be the whole body and the issues of its great draft law to these powers. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not forget that one step is taking place. One small step, scared but done. We are voting for this by encouraging both the relevant process and voting for it, because there is an expression of the draft 'government majority' law. It's not just SYRIZA, it's ANELs. If it were not the government majority as a whole, I as a person who has shaped the policy that we do not vote on anything that comes in minority, I would not agree. If the government is expressed in minority terms, there is no law of the government, but there are some ministers who say something. Since there is a total intervention by the government majority of SYRIZA and ANEL, the opposition, in so far as it has a positive opinion, has no reason and no hesitation to express it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, may I have the floor on personal grounds, why has there been a personal report?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u142	But your name was just mentioned, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u143	I'll be very financial in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u144	However, we have reached the point simply to mention the name of a colleague and to be regarded as personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u145	No, I don't want to abuse. I never do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mr Xydakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u147	Mr Loverdos referred to this lifting of his own amendment, which I described in detail yesterday in the debate as a return to the legal, normal and customary order of the relations between the Church and State. So I described it with great patience and great references to the historical background, the historical background. However, the political question is as follows: why, while the 1976 law of the Government of Karamanlis and the charter, as formulated by 590/1977, are making it abstractly and clearly and exempting the pan-Hellenic Tinos institution from the status of the church institution and keeping it for two centuries, a public pan-Hellenic institution, why is this amendment doing so in ecclesiastical? It doesn't make any sense. Did it come up, or did any big debate occur at the Sacred Synod, resolutions came to the Ministry of Education - in 2014, I say in Mr Loverdos' amendment - that this great debate was held to make a focal point of change in the statutes and the law governing the institutions? Oh, no. On the contrary, a major political result was produced. All the people of Tinos rose up - all the people - who built, believed and co-created with the clergy the tradition of the foundation of Tinos for two centuries and became terrible incidents. It breaks through any homogeneity of clergy and people. All parties were across the street. In the original amendment, Mr Brutsis, a member of the Cyclades, was involved. He pulled out after that. At the end - politically speaking again - not even the PASOK voted, no one voted. Only the members of the River stood up and Stavros Theodorakis stood. That's the truth. It was not broken up, but the unity of people and clergy comes back with this reintroduction to the regulatory, moral and natural order of things, and that is what we have done. Only the junta had changed the status of the foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u148	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u149	I want to clarify this so that the Greek people can hear it and hear it from all the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u150	Please, Mr President, take the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u151	However, Mr Loverdos, let us agree that it is not our problem today to go back to the Tinos. We're talking about another matter. However, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u152	First of all, this debate does not in itself involve any reproach. They exchange views, but they exchange opinions from people who think something, something they think is right. Yes, Mr Xydakis, the procedure I followed at the time when I was Minister of Education was appropriate according to all the authors of Church Law. The Charter of the Church is a law, colleagues. It's a law. The House is voting for him. However, the House never follows a procedure from the tops we were going to talk about. The Minister decides, the House thinks about it and votes on it. There is a proposal from interested parties and, in this case, the Church of Greece is interested. Indeed, in 2014 I had this proposal. This procedure has been done. There are the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u153	From the Holy Synod or the Metropolitan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u154	Please. I had the relevant documents then. Today it's the opposite. And the proof that something problematic exists is that neither the government partner nor the Communist Party of Greece voted for it. They went to 'the present' one and the other, I think, also in 'the present'. So there's one thing, Mr. Comrade. Let's see it one more time and consider whether you're right or not. Finally, what comes from your legislative initiative is that you are going to make this Foundation a municipal area, an extension of the municipal authorities. That's what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u155	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I am tabling legislative improvements. It concerns matters of safety and propagating material. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can I get started?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, he speaks to your step-by-step colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u162	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense for the next day of the reconversion to take place. Another sees him fat, another tall, another low, another full, etc. What I cannot understand and explain is this bullying that has started since yesterday in the face of Fotis Kouvelis from the whole of the counterpopulation. Perhaps because, ladies and gentlemen, this is so annoying for you. I'm coming to the bill. It is true that it has taken decades but also thousands of scientific research to convince a significant part of the modern Western world about the therapeutic properties of cannabis. Recently the World Health Organization has announced that there is sufficient evidence to make effective use of cannabidiol for various forms of cancer, epilepsy, Parkinson and Alzheimer's, Huntington and Kron's diseases, heart complications, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, bowel inflammation, and diabetics. In addition, recent research has shown a positive effect on HIV patients, as well as on psychosis, anxiety and depression. This is how cannabis medicine has begun to occupy a perimeter position either as basic treatment or as a very powerful analgesic for a number of diseases. Unfortunately, however, in Greece, we do not belong to the group of countries which have worked in this direction. On the contrary, even today some forces continue to respond appallingly to developments, science and progress. So to be clear: Recognising the pharmacological properties of cannabis and the need to facilitate productive investment in this perspective does not mean depreciating the addictive side effects that its euphoric use can have or naturally approve of it. Today, however, we are not talking about aspects of addiction or infringibility. What we are discussing is the purely scientific theme of the pharmacological properties and therapeutic indications of cannabis. What the government proposes and which is a reality for all members of the European Union, except for three - Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania - is the use of cannabis products for medical purposes, and the arrangements for the creation of a framework for productive activities on cannabis medicinal products and also by individuals. With this bill, which meets a broad consensus, as shown in the debate with the institutions, the objective is twofold: First of all we want to ensure self-evident, that is, patients who need evidence from these products more easily, at very low cost and maximum safety, be able to obtain them. The second part concerns the opening up of huge economic and employment prospects for our country, as there are ready-made investment propositions on the seas. This is because Greece has - and other colleagues have said - comparative advantages compared to other countries, reduced heating costs, high intensity and sunshine duration, access to the European market and lower research and technology costs. I will not go into what is happening in other countries. It has been said by several colleagues. On the investment side, the solution chosen by the government is to combine the import of preparations with a model of production by individuals under strict state control. In this way, on the one hand, we enjoy the benefits of removing the state monopoly, on the other hand, all business activity is demarcated, regulated and controlled by the State. In particular, the bill provides that natural and legal persons may produce and transport, store, process the permitted varieties of hemp with a view to producing medicinal products. Within Greece the products will only be available at the state monopoly, through which patients will be granted, while exports from two special customs offices, Thessaloniki and Piraeus will be allowed. In addition, only packed products will come out of the premises, while strict quality standards and standards for cultivation and production are being established. For this reason, closed greenhouses are provided for production to be fully controlled and effective, while the production line will be strictly limited and certified by local police departments. It should also be noted that every year all conditions and conditions will be re-checked. Finally, with regard to linking the cannabis production to the agricultural sector, to clarify the following: this activity is not a traditional agricultural activity, and that is why the licensing framework is particularly demanding. It requires high technology and investment funds, but the Greek countryside will benefit from the creation of many, perhaps thousands, jobs, while at all times we will seek to enable cooperative schemes and producer groups to move on to such investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law outlines the framework for creating a new market, with benefits for both thousands of patients and the economy. The government was well aware that it is a one-way to open up the manufacture and use of cannabis medicinal products and that is why it had moved forward in previous years in a number of preparatory actions. To arrive today to discuss this bill needed wide consultation, insight and will to take advantage of the comparative advantages that our country has. I believe that a road is being opened today. I am sure there will be a lot of improvements in the course. We expect ministerial decisions with interest, but it is a path that we need to open it without prejudice, without risk, but seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with two clarifications. The first is that it must be understood - of course more about the people who are listening to us - that the bill does not concern itself with the decriminalisation of the use of medicinal cannabis. This has already been done. The question we are dealing with is the insurance and the legislative framework that has to be in place so that it does not become uncontrolled production, trafficking, cultivation and storage of cannabis. The second clarification is that the New Democracy is not against the use of cannabis, so that we do not get misunderstood. The problem is that this legislative framework does not exist to ensure that there is no uncontrolled use, cultivation and trafficking, as well as export of course. I would like to refer to specific issues, because these have been exhausted by our rapporteur, Mr Vlassis. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to respect our status as MPs, in whatever party we belong, we cannot vote in favour of a bill such as this, whatever it is about to regulate. And I'm explaining. The government cannot pass a bill regulating issues relating to public policy, such as the production and marketing of narcotics and all implementation issues in government decisions, particularly here in CSR. Because there, that is, in matters of application, all the substance is hidden. In short, the government cannot ask us in a white-collar authority, firstly, because that is not correct, that is to say, Minister, correct legislation and its practice so far shows that it is not worthy of this kind of confidence and, secondly, because it is forbidden by the Constitution. Because provisions of substantive law are introduced in the joint ministerial decision, which is forbidden. Anti-constitutional will be the one KYA because, if you only remove the issue of the area to be cultivated and the grower's age, the one who gets the permission, all the other issues are dealt with by a ministerial decision. This will cause you a problem and you will see that it will be judged as unconstitutional. The substantive provisions which should be introduced should be clear and restrictive within the text of the law. At least do so by a President-in-Office's decree, to have a non-substantiated, but effective control by the Council of State. A second point which I would like to raise is the question of why, from the permits, that is to say, the tampering with Article 1(5), you have not excluded the offences, the offences of those who violate the law on drugs. In other words, while you have here all the infringements that concern us if anyone has been convicted of a felony or of any punishment for the offences and offences which have no value in the substance of these cases, such as the infidelity of a lawyer, oppression, infidelity about the service, breach of duty, I would like to ask - and I would like an answer, Minister - why you do not exclude the offences relating to the violation of the drugs law, namely - and I am thinking in particular of the possession of drugs. It is a question that needs an answer. Furthermore, you should answer - perhaps the Minister for Health - what if this cannabis, Mr Minister, is exported to a country which produces a controversial preparation that has been authorised by one or two countries of the European Union alone - but we may also export to a non-European country - but this preparation is not approved by the EOF, by the National Medicines Agency. If this preparation throughout Europe is perhaps considered to be a drug - I am speaking in theory, it is something that can happen - you think that our country should be able to export cannabis to that end? It is a question and I would like an answer. Otherwise, I won't waste all the time. I wanted these three questions, Mr President, to put the rest of the time, if there is a set-aside, I would like to give him to talk to Mr Vorides later. Please for the three issues. I would like an answer to the CFD, for example for preparations in European countries. It is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Megalomoustakas has the floor, and then Mr. Michelonanakis follows, and then you are, Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been amazed basically since the day we received the thirteenth-page bill, as we have learned to such an extent that the amendments are, perhaps even greater. Today, for example, we have a seventeen-page amendment. We believe that this is exactly what shows us and how seriously you have studied this important issue. Everything is now regulated by joint ministerial decisions. All those who have made this step, apart from those who are part of the co-government, have clearly said that this is wrong and that only seriousness does not give us the bill that you brought us, which is a very important and serious bill, but which does not come in the right way. As we see it, it is a draft 'lady' bill, which is a precursor to the legalisation of the use of Indian cannabis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u167	What did you say about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u168	It is a bill 'crowd'. It's clear to us. I saw the reaction of your MPs, but also of Mr Apostleos, when Mr Theodorakis came down from the Step, who was very honest - although we do not agree - to express his opinion and spoke of decriminating the use. Most of the SYRIZA MPs and the Minister applauded him. So Mr Theodorakis' attitude was very honest, and you should do the same and not in a two-page bill, which does not need a particular analysis, to see speakers reading their poems here. In other words, at some point in this Chamber we really need to show the seriousness of the matter, to make it clear to the Greek citizen what we want and what we want. It is very general what is written in the bill. We're talking about the police, which will supervise these sites. How will he do that? How many police officers are currently in official? And you're telling me they'll be kept security for not having the same rights and jurisdictions as a cop. And I will ask you this: if there are three major hits against these companies that are working on Indian cannabis, will you not then grant policemen there? Aren't you going to burden the already burdened House? Divisions are empty. Our roads are unguarded. Do you see it right? Should safety not be defined somehow? Are we ready for these investments? Let's take a look at it. What will be the benefit and the cost for us? There are no other issues or areas that we need to develop! The study you show is about casinos, these investments, how the legal "fruits" will come. That's not the point. The people are growing up with all this and reacting. She can't accept it. Under no circumstances should this bill be the first step towards the decriminalisation of Indian cannabis. That's clear. If you see an OSCE survey published, Greece is in the last position of cannabis use and has not been decribed. Do we want to change that? I hear too many of the speakers talking about the positive effects and how good cannabis does to us! Don't get confused. For pharmaceutical reasons, yes, to be used. It's very right and it's already being used. The quantities for pharmacological use are already allocated by state control. There's already this. Also, what will prices be? Will it be cheaper for the patient and the state budget? There's no study that tells us that. We do not know what will be the paradoxes, which will be the cost of production. So how do you want us to come and support you or even vote against? How do you want to have an opinion on this bill when you're not giving us anything at all? And you don't give us why you don't have one, or why don't you? You're talking about reducing costs. You're just saying that. You've said a lot. You have also talked about moral advantage and we have seen what your ministers have done. Can we believe you? We can't believe you. Is there someplace on paper? In fact, I regret what I have seen, that is to say to support the opinion on the decriminalisation of cannabis. Because that's what you did to the point. That's what you did! So that we don't get confused and that we don't always know the Internet," hemp has 50% more tar than a simple cigarette. In other words, when we have such a big anti-smoking fight - and we cannot, of course, put conditions even here in this House and I am not the first to say so from this Step - we cannot ask for anything similarly bad and to support it. And I don't know whether it'll help the Greek economy. The conditions - and quite rightly are those - that one must observe to set up such a business are too many. Costs are too high. We have not formed such a cooperative movement in Greece, where it will be able to give work to farmers in Greece, to the people. You know that, and you all in here that the big pharmaceuticals, whether Greek or foreign interests, will establish their companies and benefit from them, will gain the greatest profit. Is that what we're asking? Do you think it's of interest to the Greek, who can't study his child, who sees his trained child go abroad to work if the big pharmaceutical company gets it? Do you think the Greek citizen cares about how much profits NoVARTIS and any "NOVARTIS" will gain? Is that what you want to come in? Is that your moral advantage? Do all SYRIZA Members think that this bill came as it should have been in the Greek Parliament? Can you say clearly that it is positive? Can one of the MPs - beyond what the party has given you to follow as a line - go up on the Step and say that it will be positive because it will benefit Greece so much, so many will benefit patients from its use? I cannot, I have not heard any of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u169	The committee has come up with the opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u170	I was not in the committee, Mr Colleague, because I did not belong to that committee, but I did. Don't get confused. And the greatest evil of all - I shall repeat and I shall close - is that this bill - by following the attitude of most of the co-legislators or, above all, of the SYRIZA, because there is no-one at this time from the ANELs - is a precursor to the decriminating of the use of cannabis. I have heard Mr Theodorakis talking about how many wheels there are because of alcohol consumption. Why, there will be no traffic due to the consumption of cannabis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u171	That's what heals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u172	Oh, just don't get sick, heals!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u173	Darkness!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u174	We must therefore be very careful, always take the social good, the conditions currently prevailing in Greek society, and on that basis we must decide not on the ideology of each party. Our country is above all parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Micholonnakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that almost half the countries have regulated the production of hemp and the final production of hemp products. As regards the timeframe, on 30 January 2016, the United Nations General Assembly in its resolution adopts the directives on national policies on availability and accessibility for controlled substances of the World Health Organisation. And that says a lot. In July 2016, the working party is set up by the Ministry of Health for the medical use of cannabis. And that's where work was done. In June 2017, the transfer of hemp from the table ‘A’ to the table ‘B’, as we doctors say. There are four models in Europe at the moment, as far as the market for cannabis medicinal products is concerned: there is the model of imported authorised preparations, for example Germany, there is the model of self-agriculture, for example the Netherlands, there is the model 'Cannabis', such as in France, but the production and disposal model under state control, such as the Czech Republic. There is also one 30% of the states that combine all these four models. The solution we are proposing is to combine the introduction of a model of production by individuals under strict state control. We must stress this: under strict state control. Natural and legal persons will now be able to produce, transport, store, process cannabis of the kind of Cannabis Sativa L with a tetrahydrocannabinol content greater than 0,2% for the production of cannabis medicinal products. No awards are excluded, no contractors are excluded at all stages of production, and this activity is unchanged. So there's security valves coming in, which are there. In Greece, products will only be available at the state monopoly and exports will be made by Piraeus and Thessaloniki, where there is certification at these customs for legal drug trafficking. It shall also be prohibited to import and export hemp products from individuals. As a doctor I know that cannabis medication helps greatly in the autoimmune disease. As a cardiologist I know that it has clearly analgesic activity, it acts in seizures with anticonvulsant activity. In chemos it has a clear antiemetic effect, in cancer patients, especially at the last stage, it has a serological effect, it has clearly been with statistically significant antiepileptic activity and in ophthalmologists, you all know, by reducing intraocular pressure, it also has a therapeutic effect there. It needs to be updated and reformed the framework of the state monopoly, the organisation of services, the role of the EOF. There are huge prospects in the economy. There are also huge prospects for investment in employment too. What will help with this? It will help the climate of Greece, it will help the reduced heating costs, sunshine will help, our access, which is easy as a member of the European Union, to the European market. Of course, it needs high technology and investment funds. And in this way, new jobs will be created and we will be able to implement the green growth that we have brought to the fore. They will be able to act, as the Minister has said, and there is already interest in cooperative schemes and producer groups. With all this, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, the benefits will be great for both patients and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Makis Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us make it clear whether we all agree on some basic things in this Chamber. Hashishi is a drug, cannabis is a drug. It's forbidden. It shall not be used, its marketing shall not be prohibited, its cultivation shall be prohibited. Have we come up with this? Are we in agreement with this? Because since the morning I've heard something about legalising use.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u179	Says who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u180	I'm not telling the government. I'm saying it sounds in the Chamber. I'm curious because that's not the government's position. It is that this remains illegal and narcotic. It is quite clear. There is no question of legalising its use. That's what I understand is the government's position, but it suddenly opens up a conversation like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u181	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u182	From speakers. I didn't say the government. I've said it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u183	All of the counterpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u184	From you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u185	It was heard by speakers in the Chamber, by our colleagues. Can I say it again? I didn't say the government said that. That's the third time I've said it. But it is important that this debate is somewhat linked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u186	That's what the government says. Mr. Chironis has said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u187	Like this. It is important or at least the way it is now represented - Mr Fotella rightly - that the government's official position. But it's got a relationship with what's connected. That's what I'm saying. Because in our minds, apart from that, we have to understand that there are risks. Because if we do not believe that there are risks, then the whole approach is understood because it is done, because there is this approach. And that is if we consider that there are no risks. But if we think there are any risks, then let's go see what's going on. Firstly, because I heard something here about the World Health Organisation. I don't do the doctor or the specialist. I never did, even when I was a Minister of Health. But I'm reading the basics. I'm not the expert. But I do not want them to tell me that the World Health Organization has said that everything is a boomer. Because he hasn't said that. I shall therefore read you from the World Health Organisation website. The post is on 13-10-2017 and is about a post of Expert Committeeon Drug Dependence, a commission of experts on drug dependence and talks about cannabidiol. It says that we have accepted several applications from Member States on the question of the use of cannabidiol. It makes a specific distinction between THC tetrahydrocannabinol and says that this is a addiction, it is toxic, it is extremely problematic - it is the amount mentioned, more than 0,2 that it says here - and it says about cannabidiol. And he says, "I've done research, I've thought, I've had meetings." It concludes: ‘The ECDD, the Committee of Experts, has therefore concluded that the present information does not justify any relevant usage planning and postpones any such thought on further research since May 2018’. What are you talking about in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u188	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u189	It was stated as an argument, "What a good and good thing that the World Health Organisation has said this too, that it is fine to use cannabidiol for drug use". The World Health Organisation has said the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u190	He didn't say otherwise either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u191	So let's calm down. No, he said otherwise. He said that we currently have no research and evidence to say that and we will see it in May 2018. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u192	For the THC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u193	I'm talking about cannabidiol again. For the THC, there's no conversation that she's out. It's for cannabidiol. So, here, the main issue is what you want this whole thing. You're saying it's for drug use. What can it be? To come, for example, to a company and say that I want to make a preparation, to use cannabidiol in this medicinal product and to get the approval procedure of the Medicines Agency and to need some sort of supply, to have such a demand for a preparation. Yes, sir. So this is the procedure in the EEO that applies to all medicines. It shall not apply specifically to those persons. It applies to all medicines. They will pass the approval procedure of the EOF. Good! But here you come and raise the question of production, how this is produced. Isn't that right? So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we going to do? If everything goes well, in theory, there will be a company that will ask for something to use in order to build a particular pharmaceutical preparation with the legal procedure. We are now forgetting the debate on use. This use will be the legal use by a pharmaceutical company. Because I hear something else about balconies, private use, and write it privately. I hear something like that. Those aren't there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u194	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u195	I was listening about the balconies. They came to the committee yesterday and they were talking about balconies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u196	They're yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u197	They were saying that relief not in the context of a preparation, but in the context that we will now take the hashish and make relief. So we're forgetting her. I'm clarifying them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u198	And Mrs. Cabadia said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u199	I'm glad we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u200	The government didn't say it. Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u201	We agree, we agree. So there are no such things. Let's go to the rest. So, let's go to the point that you're coming here to organize the issue of production and you're setting some conditions: What kind of conditions do you have? I read them: "Have...", he says, "...four acres. Keep the cultivated area enclosed to be closed. Provide conditions and conditions for safe storage of the area’. I now come to say: what is the main problem in this process? Here comes the other guy, he starts growing. Where are you telling him he can sell? He can export in a way that you describe and tell him that he can sell only to the state monopoly. Right? That is what you say, for the supply of the State monopoly and its disposal by the State monopoly for medical purposes or for their export. Question: Who is following the quantity cultivated? I got ten acres. Who knows if ten pounds or twenty pounds or thirty pounds? Who knows where these were stored? Who measured their storage? Who knows how much of that was sold? Who knows how many of them were destroyed? Who knows, and how does he control it? What do you think of this in here? How about this thing inside? Because if you don't say anything, don't work. We go to category I, so I started from there, that it actually opens a story, licenses are issued, and everyone will come and say, "I, you know, I've taken out ten pounds" and will have made thirty. Twenty on the outside. Who controls this thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u202	IF.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u203	Where does EOF control it and how?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u204	According to the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u205	Leave them "according to the law" and show me the order. Tell me how the FDA has accounting warehouses to which it controls each producer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u206	We'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u207	No, you're going to talk to me, tell me, 'cause I'm reading law, something a little legal, I know, this thing I'm telling you is nowhere. Not even as a provision of authority I will not give it to the Minister to make sure. Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u208	It takes it to 'and other relevant topics'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u209	All right, all right. So, here, there is actually no control mechanism, there is no legislative control framework, there is no control of quantities, but you are ready to start authorisations. Let us say that we want to make competition in Albania, which is dealing with basic drugs in the Balkans, to admit that it is our intention to do so and to make it clear. However, I cannot now believe that in such a matter someone is so naive that the major, which is it, does not come to put it and ensure it before it is put to the House. I'm so sorry. So, when I say that this is not the nice innocent little thing that someone came up with and said, "Now, you guys, we need a drug use because she may want any company to make a preparation and organize it," but in fact, behind it is heavy, heavy ideological and linked to specific perceptions of cannabi use, that's actually. But let me tell you something and I shall end, Mr President. I'll tell you a story and I'll close. I had a court of law, ladies and gentlemen, these days, heavy, difficult, a big case involving children, company and parade by this court, as witnesses testified thirty - thirty - thirty - five children. When I say kids, I mean eighteen, nineteen, those who can testify as witnesses, not smaller. Adults but young. All of them - shocking - from areas like Gerakas, Pallini, Sweet Water. It was about a drug-related homicide. All the drug users from 16! What about the answer we have to give to a drug-deported society is the uncontrolled cultivation of hashish? Uncontrolled culture of hashish, that's what you're legislating today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Christos Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I claim that this bill is taking a completely responsible step in the right direction. Here's how the explanatory statement begins. He says: "Modern studies at European and international level accept the therapeutic properties of cannabis. In this context, the tendency to establish patients' access to medicinal cannabis products and the dialogue to regulate the scope of the production of finished products, their control and licensing, their availability and medical use remains open and considered within the scientific community, given the specificities of both the production process and final products, as well as the open prospects for medical use.’ Why do I start with this? Because how such a serious issue - and I am going to try to be by the book just - is introduced by the explanatory statement with these very words, it shows a responsibility and a perspective. And I'm going to be a little more specific. The opposite of what we've been accused of is happening. Why were we accused? We have been accused that for ideological reasons which contain either steam or we are obsessed with this bill. That's the core. We have been accused of those who have been in power for so many years and have not taken half a step that for ideological reasons or atmospheric reasons we are bringing this bill and, on the other hand, we have been accused of bringing it because we have an evil plan, which will lead to where people think or want to point out that it is supposedly going to lead, that is, to free recreation. I claim that you have not carefully read either the bill or the scientific report that the committee has put forward the proposal to set up this bill. And be even a little more specific. First of all, when we talk about such matters, we understand very well that these are multifactorial issues, which concern justice, laws, etc. to ideology. That's the way it is. These are issues with a wide range of issues. We are not talking here about all the matter, and it is not the place to discuss all the matter here. The introduction of the bill, the explanatory memorandum defines this because it actually says that it is an open matter to the scientific community. It is an open issue, but it has a development. And we do the elementary thing, we come to match this development. And I do not understand how, on the one hand, 'We live in Europe' is seen by this scepticism either on the other side or on the other side. So what does the liberal Mr. Mitsotakis say about all this? I have no idea what the clear line is from the side of the Officer's Response is. I hear things, but I don't understand the core of who they are or rather I understand. The core is the core of the various ideologies and divergences - I will say so, in this way, I will not use any other terms today - which at this stage have prevailed on the side of the Officerial Opposition and of the New Democracy. To be a little more specific, I and myself - let me - have a more specific and experienced and scientific knowledge about this issue and I would like to share it with you, to think about some things accurately. And it is very accurate, extremely precise, the finding, the recommendation for the medical use of cannabis by the Scientific Committee headed by the chairman of the EOF. Let's go see them one by one. I shall speak a little about them and I shall leave them to the most competent people, because there are issues there. I will say two - three things, but I want to make a few things clear. Firstly, it is clear that the use of cannabis causes dependence. The kind of dependence and its degree and gravity are one thing that is being discussed in the scientific community. Basically, it's a psychological dependence. But there are opinions that even speak of physical dependence. Secondly, it is also clear - and this is not a lot of people know about it, but I want to say it from the Stephen of the House - that we as organisations have an endogenous cannabinoid system. What does that mean by simple words? There are certain receptors, there are endogenous fastenings - I try to be precise according to the report - there are enzymes that are responsible for their biocomposition and deactivation. In fact, there is an extensive cannabinoid system in various organs and tissues, and this shows how important the role of this system is in the homogeneity of various physiological functions. I urge you to read this report carefully and especially the people who have a knowledge so that they can read it. However, I am saying this so that we do not forget that, as is the case with other medicinal products, colleagues know - as is the case with other herbal products, these are to be matched by certain systems that already exist endogenously. I'll go down. Does he have therapeutic properties? Of course it does. In fact, in the specific work that has been submitted - this is a public document, it is not something that I have discovered - there is a review of the randomized clinical studies that so far exist in literature. There is also an indicative bibliography. I will also testify to you from a search I made on PubMed and some articles, to see a little more carefully, where it is recorded with a lot of precision without exaggerating, without adding anything or removing anything, what randomised studies say. I do not want to repeat it, many colleagues have said it. Some things like some other things are clear. And it's on a course of study development, examination, etc. Now, is the cannabi side effects? Clearly, it has to be clear about that, too. In fact, I am reading to you what the finding says, which is a more specific subject of my own scientific involvement: "Basic restriction even on the medical use of cannabis remains the possibility of potentially dangerous psychiatric symptoms (developing addiction, psychosis, cognitive dysfunctions) and therefore the registration and reporting of adverse reactions in pre-engineering clinical trials and post-engineering procedures become absolutely essential. It is also important to inform the public and to incorporate it that the use of cannabis may increase the possibility of schizophrenia and psychotic symptomology, as well as that the use of cannabis at an early age has been combined with a significantly increased likelihood of similar symptomology during adulthood." These are the data that we currently have in science and that we need to talk about - we need to have a serious debate, but - and the scientific community present on various issues that have to do with many aspects that have been heard here today. With these data provided, which is very clearly described in the report, which I invite you to read and study, what are we going to regulate here? Because we are not generally talking about all of the matter, nor are we talking about how we should regulate criminal or not in this bill the issue of our dependent people. That's not what we're talking about. We are discussing a very specific thing. We are taking a step, putting an exception, so that we can also give our country the possibility, which is a production option that must be used, to produce a product which will end up in the use of cannabis. That's what this is about. That's the bill. You want to talk about everything else? Let's talk about it. We can talk about them, though, seriously. And this step is extremely important at this juncture. As I said, it's a responsible step, it's a studied step. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need another minute. I do not want to open up the debate now on what we think about addictions, drugs, one or the other, the treatment of users, etc. But it is not the subject of today's debate. I have too much to say on this. But I wanted to make it clear, firstly, a few things about cannabis, some basic knowledge that we have today. I wanted to make it clear what this bill is talking about, and of course, I am very open and personally, and at whatever level you want in the Committee on Social Affairs and elsewhere, to discuss, but with sufficient capacity, many other issues that coexist with this issue. That's what this is about. I will say one more thing, because there has been a report by the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. This is what is happening with the opposition today. That is, on the one hand, an ideological position, which has this dual character, namely, that it accuses us of steam, and on the other, it is trying to scare the world, and we are going to make a responsible regulation, on the basis of specific criteria, based on specific provisions of the law. I think the Justice Minister will talk about them. I don't want to say any more. We're neither disgusting, nor scared. We're responsible. We are taking a responsible step, with full knowledge. We are also giving an important opportunity to the country's production process, but also to be able to demarcate myths around this issue. We're perfectly precise. I invite you to reread the draft law and the recommendation of the Scientific Committee and to discuss where we are not precise on the basis of modern data. So, I think that's what I tried to do, as much as I could in my time, to be clear. A word about the preliminary committee because it came up with the matter. I would like to say from this Step forward that it is very hypocritical to those who built Article 86 and the 'Ministers' law, today, to play differently, I would say. And I say this because we in the preliminary committee will do what the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament say. Nothing less, nothing more. The rest, the preliminary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Konstantinos, wants to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u213	I will talk about the legislative improvement and make two comments on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u214	So you won't talk again. Deal. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to table a legal improvement, together with Mr Blonde, on the age limit for the possibility of working with this subject. There is no reason, there is nowhere a limit to the twenty-first year of age. All people have been adult and are responsible for the law since the eighteenth year. Therefore, this report is abolished by the legislative improvement we are tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u216	Is it abolished or made eighteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u217	The provision is abolished and the eighteenth is eighteenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u218	That's in mere justice whenever it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u219	No, because this is where it needs professional attention, increased legal capacity. You know that, Mr. Voridis. Profession, you know. I wanted to mention, Mr President, some of the objections that have been raised, rather some of my colleagues are not very careful on the provisions, although I am sure they have been read - on the legal conditions for engaging in this activity, particularly under the conditions laid down for some who have committed offences, have been convicted or have been subject to legal proceedings. It states: First category, for those who have been convicted of a felony. For any felony. Secondly, any penalty for the following offences: For theft, misappropriation, common misconduct, fraud, extortion, forgery, forgery - listen - infidelity of lawyer, bribery, corruption, oppression, infidelity of service, breach of duty, as well as any crime of sexual freedom or economic exploitation of sexual life. This is an extensive level, as far as the crimes are concerned, irrevocable penalties imposed on those offences are concerned. Thirdly, when we have a final injunction on all the felonies and on the misdemeanours I have read to you. Don't repeat it. Fourthly, when they are of detainee legal support, in full or in part, under subsidiary legal support, in full or in both cases. So what do we see here? We have an extensive framework, which one must approach with one - I would say - seriousness, because the same offences are committed to the legal conditions that a citizen must have for him to be a civil servant or a civil servant in the general sense. So if the government is being blamed at this time for not having a stricter framework, I say to you that we have the strictest legislative framework as it is in cases where the same conditions exist for a public servant. Therefore, the legislative framework and the conditions are particularly strict and I think there is no question of further tightening it up. Is there any other count of crimes that should be committed? I don't think so. Because since we have all the felonies...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u220	Proceedings of breaches of the Narcotics Act?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u221	Who are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u222	For own use. I'm talking about an idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u223	Excuse me, Mr. Voridis. If we go to such a situation, then we have to get to the point where crimes are being committed, when there is in particular no longer any question at all. What you are saying to me - you do not know better than anyone - there are cases of serious trafficking and trafficking in drugs, but when they are made by a user, they have a criminal penalty. So here, why is the law coming and doing this? He does so because he wants to give a margin to someone who was under the influence of drugs and dependence, precisely so that it does not have the effect, he is throwing him out of the felony. Can we come and tell him he'll be deprived? Of course not! So these conditions - I say to you - which the law requires to be incorporated as a civil servant into the administrative machine, we put them to entrepreneurship. There is no stricter framework. So I think any other approach is wrong. What I would like to say once again, unfortunately, is that we are debating here in this House a bill which is about how we get all those positive things from cannabis and get the benefits for our fellow people who are suffering for medical purposes. All the other things that are mentioned in relation to legalisation, liberalisation, the intent trial made by some colleagues, I believe that they are not just out of the bill, but testify to something: that we have no objection to the bill and we invent something in this Chamber and, indeed, under a rule of fear. What you said, Mr Voridis, by closing your speech, should give you particular consideration. First of all, it is a claim which you should consider again, because it is against what you might wish to achieve. Second, he's disrespectful of the bill. But I'm coming back to first. It is a claim that you should not put forward, because if you were to tell us that under the existing legislative framework deterrence of the use of drugs is proven and fully understood, I would understand it. In the debate we are going to have on these issues, however, to say that, with the current legislative framework, sixteen children are drug users, what does that mean? It means that the existing legislative framework has failed completely, because if it were effective, you would not bring us this example from the plenary step. I therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill has all those guarantees for us to have a productive activity in the country, which can result in a product produced for the benefit of people who need it for medical reasons. That's the bill we're talking about. Everything else is a trial of intent and a terrible pretext because we have nothing to say about the bill. Be honest when we talk. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u226	Mr Vorides, I honestly tell you that dialogue is very interesting, but I cannot let it evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I will not let him evolve. I'll make an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u228	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u229	Just to close the unity of the argument, I'm sure Mr. Contonis understood my argument. My argument is obviously not that everything is wonderful and blooming in the present situation. But it is that a legislative environment is actually being formed here, which will make a difficult situation much worse. Unless - I turn it to you now - you have an argument, but you do not present it as a government, that, for example, decriminalisation or, as I say, what is now happening with the legislation, namely liberation and uncontrolled - in my view and I have explained how - culture of hashish or hemp at the moment, it will improve an already difficult situation. I say it will get worse, that we should go to the reverse. I'm just clarifying my argument. I'm sure Mr. Contonis understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u231	Minister, I honestly tell you that dialogue is very nice, from the few dialogues, but how much is it going to go?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I will not go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that if we were to enter the debate, Mr Voridis, your second argument, then you would really be right that the bill is more than what he describes. However, the bill does not concern much more. It concerns the cultivation and under the strict checks carried out in the draft law and those which will also be provided for in the joint ministerial decisions, which will be published, because you know that these things are provided for. It is therefore not uncontrolled farming, as you have said. It is the cultivation, which is provided for under the terms and conditions of the law and under the controls provided for and which will be laid down by acts and joint ministerial decisions. Finally, Mr President, because I have missed it before, I would like to say that the legislative restrictions that I mentioned about the felony, the defects, the speeches, etc. concern a large number of people involved, the omnipotent partners, the members of the administration of an anonymous company, the managers and so forth, precisely to have the workers, because there too can infiltrate something illegal and immoral, an illegal and negative behaviour. It follows that those provisions of the law render it absolutely unobstructed by such cases, which, by stressing and in the State of fearful syndromes, you mentioned on several occasions, those who consider that the bill opens up other atrocities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Comrade, let's go in a row. Look, Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Fotillas expects that long before they take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u238	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u239	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kontonis actually gives green light to businessmen, who have committed violations of the drug law, even if it relates to crimes. Because I have carried out experts on dependents and on large quantities, I know that there are cases of trafficking in a large amount of drugs that are finally punished by the perpetrators for a crime or have even passed unpunished. I believe, therefore, and I repeat that it gives green light to such entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u241	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u242	There should be a provision in this regard. When a person has been a drug offender in the past, it cannot function as an entrepreneur in such an undertaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u243	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, let me clarify this in order to answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u246	Minister, you're not helping me at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u247	I said it before, but he didn't listen to me. If you want, I repeat it in twenty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u248	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I said this before, referring to the speech by Mr Vorides. You didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u250	I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u251	When we say all the felonies, they're all the felonies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u252	You didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u253	Watch out. For what you said there may have been citizens' convictions involved in trafficking, which the sentence is a felony, but which is what is being done? Because they were ex-users. So if these people have been cured, there is no reason for the public not to enter - that is why these things are not being persecuted under the strict conditions of membership of some people in the public body - nor to engage in a business activity, because it would then be stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u254	That type?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u255	We should barely want these people into a process of rehab and there is no question. If there is no real question, then why are you invoking a conviction given under these conditions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u257	No more work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u258	You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty-four students and students and four teachers from the Dutch School of Education CSG WILLEM VAN ORANJE (BILEM BONIE). The House welcomes them. Thank you very much for coming to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues are following. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Jason Fotillas, Ioannis Shahinides, George Lambroulis, Elisabeth Scoofa. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u260	So, ladies and gentlemen, some issues are becoming central to revealing the attitude of all of us in the achievements of scientific knowledge, medical studies, clinical studies, interventionist and not in the way they are implemented for the purposes for which we should have in mind that everything we do is to make life easier for the patient. Imagine the Greek Parliament discussing the use of opioids, let us all know that opioids are hard drugs and discuss whether they should be used in the acute myocardial infarction, in the acute pulmonary oedema, if pethidine, even in its use at home, can be used to treat cancer pain or even in its vaginal kidney, because we are giving recipes for use at home too. Imagine, on all these issues, that we have not taken care of under what legal status, in which ways, in what ways, the distinction will be made between what is a criminal offence - drug use continues to be a criminal offence for too many - and those that helps the patient, in order to deal with issues in which, if you read the report in detail, it would see that, after a series of studies carried out, we have reached conclusions from the world literature, from studies which Mr Voridis questioned on the basis of what the World Health Organisation stands for. I have seen, ladies and gentlemen, that you have not all taken the same position. Most of you have been shown to be the pharmaceutical property of cannabis products. I think this issue differentiates us all about what we are legislating today. What makes this bill is to find the legal ways in which the whole process of production, of organising the activity, which will lead to a final product, of storage, of controls, must be done. We agree with all these standards, which the draft law sets out, which will become law, because I have seen the attitude of most of the political forces here. What we are providing for under Article 2, paragraph 9, is that we give the EEO the approval of the production and circulation of the finished medicinal products of hemp, the hemp varieties with a hemp content exceeding 0,2% for medical purposes, with the specifications, conditions laid down and to be laid down by a decision of the Minister for Health on a proposal from the EEO. This makes clear under what specifications final preparations, in whatever form, can be given for the use of patients and of course under specific medical instructions. For us, it is certain that we need to move to a register of patients who need cannabis use products. It is certain that we need therapeutic protocols, which define for these various uses under which conditions doctors will write a specific quota, a specific quantity, a specific method of administration, so that there can be no question of what is stored, how it is stored, what reaches the final product and how it is moved to the use of patients. These are, therefore, issues on which I think Parliament is mature to go ahead with their legislation. Here I think we should avoid distortions, which exist as to whether we are now allowing cannabis to be used for other purposes, because some of the positions made in the committee, and now they are aimed at decriminating the use of hashish as a whole, cannabis and marijuana. This is an issue that throws the ball off the field. No provision of the draft law describes issues that would give us thoughts of decriminalisation. This is another conversation. We have all listened very carefully to the former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, to put Mr. Theodorakis on a number of issues, but these are another debate that the Greek Parliament will do under certain other facts, when we will come to have clear suggestions, clear proposals, so that this will come to prepare for society as well, in order to make all the dialogue that it needs, so that we can draw conclusions. To avoid boredom, what it is doing today - and I think that the Greek Parliament can move on to these steps that we are taking today - is to serve patients' needs. Groups of patients who are serving are clear have been described from multiple sclerosis to many other categories of patients who need it. There are known to be comforting properties which are not questioned by all clinical studies. The legalisation of this draft law will enable the needs of the sick to be met. So that is, dear friends, which leads us to ask all colleagues to see you in whatever way and to be in the position you are in. I am specifically addressing the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. I have heard how many of you have made proposals for improvements to the draft law. Instead of keeping this, you say withdraw the draft law. These steps, that is, which define a promotional draft law, you say to withdraw. Do you then come to a dialogue on what is progressive and anachronistic, what is reform and what is obsession, on some clichés, which will lead to the fact that New Democracy is a force of reforms on mature issues, after exhaustive dialogue - and we have heard the actors - or that it is an obsessive party in conservative clichés and insists on them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Iason Lightlas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, first of all, let me inform you that here outside the plenary session in Peristlio, it is taking a walk over - under the morning of Mr Caranikas. He's very anxious and anxious. I don't know why. In the meantime, we also hear some information - we do not know if it is true, of course, you will not tell us, nor do we only adopt them - that Mr Karanikas has already made the first agreement on this story as a representative of the Ministry of Health - I do not know how this results - with a company. It's probably not. But tell us if that's the case. From there on, let the man come in and watch. Adviser to the Prime Minister is also the inspiration of the bill. You thanked him for the valuable help he gave you to make this bill. Why do you have him whispering in the hallway? Let him in and watch. To start with, to avoid misunderstanding: there is not a single member of the New Democracy who is so narrow-minded or unaltered that not all the patients for whom the scientific community, medical science, have found that they need these medicines. Not today, but yesterday they should have access. But we think about it and we really believe it. Are you doing this? Are you thinking about the patients? Let's take a look at it. First of all, at legislative level, these people are covered. You didn't need this bill. They have been covered by the Joint Ministerial Decision, which you brought in 2017. So we are talking about a technical level, that is, they can have more direct access and perhaps at better and more affordable prices. So that's what's going on here? If this bill is passed today, its first results will come to the best in one, in two years. Is that how you think of them patients? Are you sure you're going to cover for them in a year or two? Yesterday you should have covered them with pharmaceutical preparations, which science says are good for them, not when this investment is over. So it's not about these people. It's over. You don't care about patients. Let's go down. Is this an investment? Let's see it because we're not against investment. We are in favour of investment, of legal investments, and we always say that. However, I cannot comment that for three years you have not brought a single investment and suddenly the investment brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL government is the investment of the "boat". Because this is the only investment you bring to three years of governance! Really, we should invest. But we must do it in safe conditions. We're talking about a drug. You say that in the explanatory statement. It's addictive, hard and dangerous. So any investment must be done on secure terms. Whether it is done by the state or by selected few individuals - so that we can control them - who will fulfil all the conditions in a form of PPP, say, always under the supervision and cooperation of the state. Is that what's going on here? Really, what market are we going to do? Can you tell us that? We will not, of course, address the growing countries. They grow. What can we sell them? Even those who haven't legislated. I'm not sure this whole investment is so terrible. I don't get any of this from somewhere. And is it true, even now, that we do not know what the grower should do after all? Should he make the medicine? Because if you have to make the medicine, then beyond the cultivation, you have to have a pharmaceutical industry next door. So not mocking the world and the farmers for newly ingenious entrepreneurship now. For others, this is the job. If you don't have to make the medicine, but you just have to make a fodder distillate or the fodder fodder itself without any treatment, then, if you'll excuse me, but we don't talk about cannabis medicine, which doesn't exist, medical use exists. Cannabis is one of the people who smokes, what those philosophers call it, anyway. This is the cannabis, there's no one else. So to say what the real purpose is, to see it. We say that the purpose is at the end of the day to legislate and free all uses of cannabis. That is the purpose. If this bill is passed as it is, Greece will be the only country in Europe and the world that will produce legitimate mass cannabis cultivation. Neither the countries most open to these issues, the Netherlands, let's say, Colorado, Arizona, who have legislated and used entertainment, did not think about this. Well, you've really finished it. You probably didn't finish it, you'll end it if you tell us tomorrow, because you can do it, except for the truffle, we'll grow coke. The second panel is the coke. We'll grow poppy. We'll grow opium. "Bizna" to do. If there is a 'bizina' in the same table, that's all. Why only the fodder if there's a biscuit? I say this because Mr. Xanthos in his inter-ministerial interview, when asked about the bloomer, said that "we are considering the possibility of coming, selling the bloom, without any processing, as will be the case with the tree." That's another thing you're telling us. What are the conditions? Mia! You should have closed the eighteenth, as it turned out to be. It was twenty-one, now it's eighteen. Whoever is eighteen can cultivate cannabis. It's over! There's no other condition. With what Mr Kontonis said, he actually imposes his place. So what did he say? That the child who's been convicted of a drug felon, but for legal reasons, the offense has been turned into a crime, can be cultivated. It is like saying that we will catch a child eighteen years old with the finger inside the vase with honey and we will tell him "Take the vase home and keep the guard from touching it." That's what you're telling us. Moreover, there is no precondition beyond who - we said, eighteen years old - where this work is going to take place. So tomorrow we can see in a village next to the school a messy crop? Next to the church, a messy crop? Next to houses in the house of houses, a hassus farming? That's what this bill provides for. I don't know what's coming with the CIA. I don't have any trust, but what we're seeing today is that he can be anywhere. Nor is it a precondition that he can produce it. There is no quantification. In other words, I could think that I, as a grower - an investor, should show a sales pact with a large private company abroad saying 'I want two tons and I give you the permission to cultivate two tons'. That's not it either. On the contrary, overproduction is provided for in the bill. It is planned to set up a stock. That is, perhaps tomorrow we will have thousands of crops scattered in the country and thousands of warehouses filled with hashish. And what control mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, will it check whether there is a hindrance, if there are any leaks, if there is a black market with diffusions of the chassiophys throughout the country? We're told the police station will be in control. That's where they laugh or cry, anyway. I don't know. Everyone interpret it. Paragraph 6 of Article 1 excludes the Committee on Drugs. Why are you blocking her? Since you yourself say in the explanatory statement that this is a cruel, addictive and dangerous drug. Why are we blocking the Narcotics Committee? Mr. Voridis, listen to what we're told. It's, you know, accurately, this investment. Anyone can't do it, so there won't be so many. In other words, the government, which has decided how many licences we have to give to the channels and said that the market cannot deal with this and we have to demarcate it, says that how many chaos there will be in the country, we can allow it to be regulated by the market on its own.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u264	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll only need a minute. All of this is accompanied by a festival held a month ago in Tae Kovon Do under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the Ministry of Economy and Mrs Duru, the self-government. Inside Tae Kevon Do, I'm going to testify to the relevant ones - there were stands selling seeds to plant, machines to cultivate hash in your home - internal crop machinery - there were narciles, pipes and others. You were buying these and next door was the Ministry's stand and you were buying these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Comrade, finish now because we went to Tae Kwon Do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u266	I'll just be a minute. In the meantime, there are statements and not only from parliamentarians, but also from ministers. Here is Mr Tsironi's statement: 'Let's have cannabis on the balcony and pay a paradox to the state'. Mr. Chironis says that. He won't let you do your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Fotella, we went to 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u268	This is Mr Balaura's documentary interview...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u269	Check it out and we'll get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u270	Mr Balaurras says that 'I propose the Netherlands system and the Spanish system'. In addition, Mr Apostleou, Mr Papandreou spoke yesterday in committee. When Mr. Papandreou finished, you warmly applauded him. Mr Papandreou said we need to liberate and decriminate all the uses of cannabis. But you - because you're bringing the bill, I'm not bringing it - you say it's a dangerous, hard-pressed drug. Mr. Papandreou said this was a harmless drug. Why did you applaud him? By mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u272	I'm hanging up with this. I say this because a confusion has arisen here. And you know why this is confusing? Why else would you bring in, and you'd like to bring in another piece of legislation? That is why this confusion has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u273	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u274	To close, I want to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u275	But, Mr. Colleague, you've been closed five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u276	I'm hanging up. It's interesting. Listen to it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u277	Everything I hear is fine, but it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u278	Even the countries that have legislated for the medical use of cannabis proved - I will submit it in the Minutes - and California, the first country, where medical use was legislated, the recreational use by adolescents increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u280	As far as those who legislated for the entertainment use were concerned, all those before they had put it into a five-year public consultation and had held an information campaign in all places.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. Mr Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u282	I'm closed. I want to say a phrase. Mr. Ministers, I don't know if you really want to stay in history as the ministers of the toast. We don't care. However, we cannot allow it and cannot allow it to be for the Greeks, such as the ones that look at us from the galleries. We promised them jobs. You promise them business with flakes. Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u283	Are these serious things you're saying about the foams?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u284	Ms. Big Housekeeper, please. Make dialogue with my colleague outside the Chamber. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor. Please, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Today, in this draft law, we have seen a changed New Democracy completely from what he said to the committee's authorities, in order to vote against this draft law. From the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Manda, it has been heard that there should be a demarcation. We're totally in agreement. It has also been reported that there is an open issue with the scientific community. That is wrong, because there is an open issue on all fronts, Minister. And to clarify: You talk about people in need, about patients. Do you have a picture of the number of these patients and what exactly is it about? And if there are patients who really need cannabis medical use, why don't you import and enter the crop, namely entrepreneurship? From nowhere, neither the way of storage nor the weights are guaranteed. From nowhere is there any provision - even if there is a geoponor in this House, I challenge him to climb the Step and to determine the quantity that a tree can produce - for the production per tree. It's from a few grams up to two and a half pounds per tree. So where is the quantity guaranteed for each ‘producer’ producing this cannabis, since under the contract it will be able to sell what it has signed the contract and the rest of it will be stored without any control being possible? There's a problem here. It seems clear that you are using this draft law as a pretext. Otherwise I told you that if you really wanted to help people who suffer, as was heard in the committees and today in plenary, people with multiple sclerosis, people with various forms of cancer, people with various forms of epilepsy, you could enter the medicine and give it to the state itself. Why did you get into this process? It's really a business that looks like it. You did indeed express a concern, Minister, yesterday. You said investors have come, they've opened VAT and they're waiting for how and how. Here we see that our country will become a paradise of people who will depend on cannabis. What do you want? After the chassos festivals, shall we have chassostism? I come to the amendment with a general number of 1503, which we will also vote against, because it concerns the medium-term which was signed in May 2017. This amendment, at a time when the area of public health is swayed by scandals involving political persons and government officials of all the parties that have delegated the country, comes to widen the field of competence of the relevant Minister for Health on the supplies of health bodies and at the expense of the relevant jurisdiction of the EMCDDA, even adding to the exceptions to the competence of the EMCDDA the supplies of the health institutions that are part of the operational programmes of the National Reference Strategy (ESDP) and financed by national and Community resources and those financed by European Structural and Investment Funds (EDF), the European Economic Area or other specific co-financed European programmes, as well as those included in the National Public Investment Framework Programme or those financed by registered appropriations under FIE 5115 and 5117 for fund managers. We are also voting against Amendment No 1504 and Amendment No 114. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today - I cannot tell you fellow Members because none of you are dealing with us in this way - this morning, in the debate on the current questions, there was a departure from the Minister, while he had answered and was present. I would have to see from the Minutes if, before Minister Kotzias left, he had declared a loss. Challengingly, while he had answered the second question concerning his ministry, while MP Antonis Gregos had tabled a relevant timely question with the Greek minority living in Skopje, left the House. One question arises here: Kotzias is also a non-parliamentary. As far as I know, however, what applies to non-parliamentarians also applies to parliamentarians. It is therefore important to include it in the intervening issues and in Article 2, which reads: 'The proposal to postpone the debate on any matter is considered an incidental matter'. It has committed another infringement, as shown in the general provisions of Article 75, where it states ‘to avoid actions which harm the smooth conduct of operations’. Let's go to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. In paragraph 4 (d), the inappropriate conduct of words or works refers to the lack of respect for the Bureau, the seriousness of the work and the mission of the Parliament and the condemnation of the Constitution and of the state institutions by words or works. Let's go to Rule 80 to see how many articles in the House's Rules of Procedure the Minister violated today. There it mentions the reproach for parliamentary behaviour. Let's go to Article 131, which reads as follows: 'as the relief of the Minister is understood as a government mission abroad or internally, as well as participation in meetings of collective governmental bodies and meetings with representatives of European and international institutions internally or externally'. They should answer us with which of these articles the violation he has committed. A timely question was tabled, which he probably considered should not be answered. We should take parentheses out of here when we make reference to political atrocities and simply refer to punctuality, because that is what has to be done. No one mentioned the fact that there were no guilty of the court's decision on the stock exchange scandal that destroyed Greek society. No one mentioned the fact that as today - if anyone could celebrate it! - the structured bond scandal broke out, which was about three years ago 2005-2007. The Greek State issued eight structured bonds worth EUR 1.8 billion. There's been a remodeling. There is one question here. One of the current Members of another party put it yesterday on a show. Really, the choice of Kuveli is punishment on the Kammenos's face? Because Kouveli's statement in 2012 was "the alliance of the Left with Mr. Kammenos's support, we do not understand it and we do not discuss it". Tell us, Lords of Government, six years later, what exactly did it change? You can tell us how this is to be done - within introductory words - 'collected' by Mr Kouvelli and Mr Kammenos. Yesterday, during the debate on another draft law, we had reports from parliamentary representatives of various parties in cases of violence. We demand - we are not calling for a response to the generalised attack on society by para-states, where the authorities are provocatively absent. A few days ago, an unprecedented attempt to terrorize the Greek people has been launched by the hooded fighters of the extreme left. The pretext for this wave of terrorism is solidarity with the terrorist bomber, but the real cause is the bad situation in which the political system is found. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] We have already had an attack that was carried out by a group of hoodmen under the nose of the police at Ermos Street in the center of Athens, a few steps from the building of the House, as well as an attack, next to the police, against the Golden Dawn offices in Heraklion, Crete. There the para-states set a ladder in the presence of the police, smashed the entrance with axes and let them completely destroy the offices of the Golden Dawn. Report was made yesterday by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to extreme right-wing violence. Because I was a special speaker in yesterday's bill, and I was here, he looked to our side and showed me. So I'm telling him that a month and a half ago I was talking to a local organization in Piraeus. Seventy hoodmen came from Exarchia with motorbikes, escorted police, and destroyed the entrance to the eight-story building. Fortunately, we didn't mourn victims. SYRIZA should take a position that condemns violence, but rather selective. Imagine seventy people with lots, bats and naval flares attacking a Member of this House. Tell us you: If you had a speech of your own MP at SYRIZA's offices, and this attack was from chrysalis, what would you do and how long would you say 'the fascists, the bad ones, the bad ones, I don't know'? Whether there is violence and you condemn it, as we do, wherever it comes from, or your violence is very selective. So we had attacks. Inside them, however, there was also a "light" attack on your own offices in Cesarean, where they broke the jam and threw a cliff. Huge catastrophe! Yesterday, as I told you, in Heraklion this morning, it became what happened, in Ermos, it became what was done with the shopkeepers, who are feeling the protection of the citizen offered by your government. There was an attack, an invasion by the "Rubic" at the Special Anticancer Hospital of Piraeus, another attack by the "Rubicon" - and what I say yesterday, the day before yesterday, and the day before - at the offices of "NOVARTIS", where there was a similar post in their own media and they did so to protect Mr. Samaras. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There was also an occupation at the University of Thessaly in Volos by anti-powered, again in a sign of solidarity. At the Polytechnic anarchists took responsibility for the molotov attacks against platoon MAT. Theatre School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki was occupied by anti-powered, again in evidence of protest, slogans in the center of Ioannina by an anarchist group, again in the context of the wave of attacks taking place throughout Greece. In fact, in a statement they are being written provocatively - and here I am wondering if a prosecutor will be seized - that blood will be spilled. What have you guys done? Your youth, as well as your party officials, visited the Halloween Prisons. That is your policy, but keep in mind that the guards are aware and I have told you repeatedly that, if you do not have a mind to treat us as appropriate, with the same democracy we will treat you when we take power in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. My colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. The Government is taking further steps in the promotion of all necessary measures to legalise the cultivation of cannabis for medical use by natural or legal persons, excluding from this process the State monopoly. In fact, the whole project, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, was heard in the committees and in this Chamber today, through the propaganda bill, is invested in the arguments of productive growth, profits, jobs, economic benefits for the country, making the Government's interest clearly in ensuring and in this field of activity and, at the same time, in creating investment opportunities for drug monopolies, since, as the government claims, they are going to rush for investment. Thus, through the draft law, the Government's overall argument, as well as the growth criterion promoted by business groups, that is to say, growth translated into profitable companies for capital, which requires low wages, flexible labour relations, land-uses convenient to investment, low tax on large capital, state investment support, etc., growth of profits of which monopolistic groups are fruitful, rather than those that produce this wealth. Thus, in the direction of facilitating investors, obstacles are removed and the existing cannabis use framework is elasticised. For example, as I mentioned before, the state monopoly is excluded. Cannabis in the second table will not be required, for example, or if you wish, the opinion of the Committee on Drugs will be excluded. In the case of the final product of production in the bill, however, no reference is made to the title 'final products of medicinal cannabis'. Really, what are the final products? We ask: What will these final products be? And we say this because the cannabis plant contains - and you know very well - hundreds of different chemicals, of which about a hundred different cannabis species, which are of course the most active substances in cannabis. And precisely on the basis of the existing experience of the use of other drugs, such as opioids, in the medical clinical practice, the available scientific data on cannabis and substances derived therefrom, whether physical or synthetic, draw conclusions. The herbal cannabis, due to the large number of active substances it contains, for the vast majority of which we do not know the effects, interactions or side effects of each of them, but also their various combinations, cannot be used as a medicinal product in itself. Secondly, specific active substances isolated from cannabis or produced artificially could, of course, be used for pharmaceutical, medical, comforting purposes, where existing medicines are not sufficient. Thirdly, the basic condition that we put in place and say that it is the treatment of active substances as medicines through clinical studies to determine their indications of use, their pharmacokinetic characteristics, their safety profile, their interactions with other medicines, in order to provide them with the greatest possible safety and efficacy. Fourthly, an important condition for the implementation of these and ensuring the safety of patients is strict control by the State itself of production, processing, disposal, administration of such medicines with strict scientific criteria and medical monitoring of patients taking them. Thus, while for medicinal products containing specific cannaboids, tetrahydrocannabis, cannabis have been studied around their medicinal properties, their safety, etc., it is not the same for the use of herbal cannabis, which is mainly based on empirical data, which followers of the use of cannabis plant support, which is of course an anti-scientific and dangerous concept which calls into question all the progress of science and knowledge gained. At the same time, with this argument of assistance, an alibi, the European Union's government's policy on how patients will cost even less in the state and business groups, while at the same time developing the resignation of the claim to exploit the enormous potential of science for the benefit of patients and, at the same time, showing cannabis as something good, something innocent, especially - we note this - in younger ages where these perceptions find an easy step, using, for example, entertainment cannabis to grow dramatically. I would refer you to the information they make public in the United States. Also, the so-called modernistic proposals for self-development that have been heard in the committee or heard, if you want, and in the wider dialogue, are not only reactionary and unscientific, but also dangerous for patients. They recommend cheap but dangerous for patients substitution of major deficiencies in public primary care and reductions in benefits, as well as reductions in state and insurance costs. The aim is to caging and accepting by the people of the European Union's strategy, capital and governments to reduce State responsibility and assign this responsibility individually to everyone. However, a solution cannot be the return to nature and to cultivate each one alone the herbs needed to treat various diseases that he can deal with. These anachronistic and anti-scientific arguments may particularly affect a number of patients with severe years and painful illnesses seeking a solution, much more when these patients are faced with the misery of public health establishments, the commercialisation of services, the almost total lack of public health units and services to support themselves, but have their families the opportunity to support them, since all these are costs for the state that transfers it to themselves, so that they can deal with it. It is precisely these conditions that deprive their freedom, which cannot, of course, be replaced by the freedom to use cannabis without the scientificly appropriate terms and conditions. In conclusion, the Government is not interested in the production and marketing of safe and quality preparations which require standardisation, quantitative and qualitative analysis, compliance with the principles of pharmaceutical science, etc. Even the least it could do, clearly defining medicinal products, substances, excipients, etc. and their specifications, it does, rather than by medical wrapping, in turn sets the ground - and through the bill - in the direction of total decriminalisation of cannabis for personal use. On the basis of all the above, we are voting against - as we have said - this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mrs. Skoufa has the floor for seven minutes on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u289	I'll start with three little comments: The first concerns the posting of Officer Opposition. It is an impression, in fact, that while in committee yesterday, the special speaker said that you were voting in favour of the bill in principle, that in short you agree or that you intend to vote in favour of it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u290	It was with reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u291	In any case, because I do not have the Minutes in front of me, he said that in principle the new Republic agrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u292	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u293	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u294	...which means that there was virtually no disagreement yesterday with regard to the medicinal properties or, at least, scientific research on the demonstration of the medicinal properties of cannabis. The objections which were raised yesterday in committee mainly concern the fact that, in your opinion, the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is handy and not well known and that it places a number of important issues in upcoming ministerial decisions. Today, after the euphoria of the speaker from the Golden Dawn, we see that you have shifted to a rather conservative reason in order to raise the most conservative reflexes of Greek society. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased I have a question: Do pharmaceutical companies operating in Greece or having their subsidiary headquarters in Greece have on the market medicinal products containing some form of opioids such as morphine or pethidine? I think so. Have we ever seen at the premises of these pharmaceutical companies in Greece what draconian security measures are taken, how many surveillance cameras are there? And very well they do and these draconian security measures are taken. Now, in this bill we are out of place or wonder how security can be ensured in the original product production and processing facilities until we reach the final cannabidiol products? Clearly we have to wait for the ministerial decision when it comes out before the necessary consultation etc. But it is not unprecedented for Greece to have medicinal products which contain, say, even a small amount of sedatives. Third point. Now, I shall refer to and use the minutes from yesterday's sitting in committee and refer to what Mrs. Despina Macridakis said, which is the first Vice-President of the National Medicines Agency, our well-known EOF: "Thank you very much for the invitation to participate in today's meeting for a very important, in many respects, subject. The use of cannabis for medical purposes has been largely proven - it has not just been proven, nor has it been proven, it has been proven to a large extent - and it has been very much discussed lately. The World Health Organisation has recognised a number of therapeutic and relief properties of the plant, while at the same time the scientific documentation on analgesic, anticonvulsant and antiepileptic action supports its positive contribution to the treatment of many diseases." It is a very careful wording, from a distinguished, otherwise, scientist in its field. I should like to say that, according to research carried out, cannabidiol, CBD, is indicated or effectively influenced by various forms of illness from which our fellow citizens suffer and lead a life almost inviolable. What are these diseases to which cannabidiol may have a beneficial effect, produced from the cannabis plant? In cancer, epilepsy, Parkinson and Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Crohn's disease, heart complications, multiple sclerosis, rheumatosis, inflammation of the bowel, diabetes and nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weight loss and weakness caused by chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy and hepatitis C. Ladies and gentlemen, although I wanted to refer to the individual articles, I will only refer to the general framework that is in force. In a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 30 April 2016, the Directives on national policies on availability and accessibility for controlled substances of the World Health Organisation were adopted. According to this resolution, governments need to minimise the negative impact of restrictive measures taken for control and safety reasons in the availability and cost of controlled medicines. Already, as we all know in this Chamber, but we are doing that we do not know, most European Union countries have legalised the use of cannabis for medical purposes. Something similar has been institutionalised in most states of the United States, Canada, Australia and elsewhere. I will briefly say that the articles of the bill provide for authorisation only to integrated management units, i.e. in vertically integrated production units. And in order for the people who are listening to us, the product from plant cultivation to its final packaging will be in fenced areas, with the highest safety measures and will not come out of this plant, except in the form of a final product. What about this final product? Either it will be placed on the internal market for patients through the State Monopoly again and hence the control of the Ministry of Health - which will naturally have been recorded, for patients' register, as the Minister of Health, Andreas Xanthos said at the committee meeting, with specific prescriptions, with specific protocols, with specific dosages, by specific doctors - or it will only be exported as a final product and exported from two very specific gates, namely Thessaloniki and Piraeus. After all this, I believe that on complex issues, to which medical research may not be fully advanced, but there are indications or most of the indications are referring to a positive effect of certain substances, we should be very careful and very methodical and very very scientific. On the contrary, because this issue concerns the health of our fellow citizens suffering from serious illnesses, darkness and prejudices can be fatal when it comes to human life. On the contrary, the methodical and careful scientific approach topics that were previously considered taboo can, if not save lives, at least facilitate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a good month. I believe that the New Democracy has made a turn by adopting what the Golden Dawn said. Perhaps he does not want to lose the voters, the very - very joining this side. With regard to today's bill, I would like to say that very many colleagues have said that it is a rough bill and that it has not been studied. On the contrary, it is a scientific research that lasted for about a year and a half. Now, with regard to some of my fellow Members who have said how they will be kept, how the guarding and counting will be done, I would like to say as far as the guardian is concerned - I have been covered by my colleague - that the permission given, as the bill says, will also have the specification to come and be controlled by the police to have his permission. Every year this licence will be renewed, so it cannot meet the conditions. Again, the guard will be assigned to a conditioner, cameras, to be guarded. Each businessman, in order to preserve his product and commodity, has the security he has to pay for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u297	Say it, Mrs. Big Housekeeper!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u298	I, too, as an entrepreneur, broke in, but I paid security and security, and I broke in. So what happens now? The police will guard the citizens or each other's business? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u299	What article does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u300	What article does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u301	Please, ladies and gentlemen, we will not open a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u302	He says, gentlemen, he'll pass, like when he opens up...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u303	Please, ladies and gentlemen, respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u304	Like when you open a hotel unit, he tells you to have fire safety. The fire extinguisher's passing through and running a check on you. From that point on, you're obligated to reconstruct, to do anything. They won't bring you a firefighter next to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u305	Yeah, but here we are talking about drugs, we're not talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Fotella, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Fotella, I'm sorry, now I'm going to take you where you're talking about production and how it's controlled. Mr. Secretarys, the operation will be either individual E.E. either O.E. Or S.A., they'll keep books III class. They'll have books of goods, warehouses and destruction. And with the simple farmers, we can't control their production, we don't know how much they're going to plant and how much they're going to produce? I've been accounting. The accounts, why do we find out? Are they uncontrollable? What's the IRS doing? I would ask you, Mr Fotella, to say 'uncontrollably and uncontrollably'. Tax does not come and tell you: "Give me the books of the warehouse, give me the goods, give me the ruins." You have to keep them, Mr. Lightla! You may be a doctor and not know them, Mr. Vorides might be a lawyer and not know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u308	I'm a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u309	That's a good lawyer, that's the worst. In law, too, they do a few economics. When I was going to Panteion, we did legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u310	That's how no one's stealing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u311	Well, let's go down. What you said doesn't apply. The competent tax office will be required to carry out audits, as it does in all companies. Taxi can get in the refrigerators and run control. I don't want to say company names. He's in the fridges with 20 degrees below zero, and he's running a check. Can't control a business what it produces, what does it export, what trades? Where are we? In the jungle with Tarzan? That's how you presented it, not even in the jungle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u312	To be honest, now you are persuading me with your arguments!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u313	I'm telling you? Sure, he won't keep books? Even individual company that can keep category II books will not have the right to keep category II, will keep category III.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u314	The truth is, you have arguments!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Fotella, please don't cause. Let it finish. Ms. Big Housekeeper, go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u317	Meanwhile, the Justice Minister said something. He said that businessmen, even the board of directors, would be controlled. The bill goes further than that, it says that what is true in the ab - if you have not seen it - will also apply to the owners of businesses, that is, the staff should not have been convicted. He won't hire any staff who will be a drug addict. It should have the same standards for hiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u318	He could be a drug addict. A drug dealer can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u319	Not to have been convicted. I read it very carefully. It should not have been convicted of a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u320	You're wrong. Not even for a felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u321	The obstacles to cases (a, (b) and (c) apply to workers and workers in areas of cultivation, installation, processing and cultivation, storage, and to means of transport used for transport. Do you know how many smuggling is going on with the trucks? Won't we be able to control a product that should have maximum safety? The trucks caught at the customs offices in Evros, etc., that bring in smuggling, heavy drugs, can't we control them? What are you talking about? You want to see the glass half empty, not half full. You got all the backwards and said it was all backwards. It's not backwards. This is for pharmaceutical purposes and we will take advantage of it, because it will give jobs, will make farmers new people who will deal with them and scientific and geopolitics, as they have dealt with aloe, will encourage exports and even seeds are banned from buying and resale, only for use. Don't see it all black. Because the paradox will pay and jobs will be opened, the plants will not work on their own to grow, and taxes will collect the state and VAT will be collected and it can put an end to, as we have in tobacco or drinks, so that seminars can be carried out and universities can do research. Well, don't see it all black. You want to see them black. It's not black. There's black and white. You made it grey.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u322	That's black!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u323	It's a white man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Skiathos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River. Mr. Amyras, your president has spoken. You normally have six minutes. There will be a relative tolerance, because I understand that you are prepared for more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that today plenary is indeed a creative plenary. We have many arguments on one side or the other, or a third look without tension and creatively. So here's one first proof that cannabis brings us closer. The first is that. Secondly, you will allow me to make some comments. Dear Mrs. Big Economics, do not invoke the tax to say that there will be a guarantee of revenue. I would remind you of the enormous tax evasion, the limited potential of our tax systems, the smuggling of tobacco, the paramilitary trade and a thousand and two. I just wanted to mention it. Now, there is a global assumption that the war against drugs has failed miserably, and now it is the doctors who are responsible to lead those calls that will reform policies on drugs. Those aren't my words. They are words of the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, and of the UN Office for the fight against narcotics, which says about the global assumption I have told you, the failure of the war against drugs: 'One in twenty adults worldwide, that is, about four hundred million people in ages between fifteen and sixty-four years have used at least two times an illegal drug'. Yes, sir. And where we had the United States of America leading the fight and war against drugs, the issue of indian cannabis changed completely and led the movement to legitimise cannabis, for pharmaceutical, medical use and euphoric use. Twenty-eight states have legalised cannabis for medical use, eight more for entertainment use and the largest state in the United States of America, California, which first gave the green light for the legalisation of cannabis and for medical, pharmaceutical and euphoric use, has a great impact on all other states and federal laws. Why am I telling you this? Because Americans are practical people. Anybody who associates with Americans knows that when the American finds himself in front of a problem, he'll look to solve it. What was their problem? Their problem was that a large proportion of people in relation to the Indian drug cannabis were forced to go to dark - to say so - cannabis to find this active substance, which will ease the pain of being cancerous or for some other diseases. So what did they do by legalising it and putting it under control on legal channels? Immediately within one year they had - if you have your god! - their states and the federal state $13.7 billion revenues. The $6 billion was from the taxation of cannabis products for drug use and the €7.7 billion from the savings of money needed to strengthen the anti-crime prosecution forces around cannabis. Where'd that revenue go? This revenue went to health, education, sport, art and the building of schools. He tells you, since we cannot control someone's desire to take drugs and indian cannabis - I am talking now about entertainment - at least let's check them in such a way that the person who wants to self-destruct is legally paying part of these money back to him in the same sense as social protection and medical care, but also for other socially beneficial purposes. I told you that in the city of Orora in Colorado revenues are going to build schools and to take care of the homeless. I put aside the view of Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trido, who says to defeat the black market and keep all citizens safe from illegal dealers. That's where he put a special tax on a dollar on cannabis sold legally at 10 bucks per gram. However, globally there is a change in legislation. Now, let us come to the Greek case and to the draft law. Here I must stress that there is a need for protocols in Greece so that doctors have the first and last word. Let's trust the doctors and the scientific community. So I read in the opinion of the medical team: "The relationship between clinical benefit and adverse events is favourable..." - this relationship is favourable, that is, is in favour of the final benefit for cannabis use for medical purposes - "... for a series of diseases, such as ache, epilepsy, anorexia, HIV, chronic pain or for multiple sclerosis." Here, I would like to ask the ministers why there is no export. Mr President-in-Office, here I would like your attention to two - three clarifications about export orientation. Why not export?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u326	You're allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u327	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u328	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u329	Excuse me, is the export of the extracts also allowed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u330	Final products.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u331	I'm talking about extracts. You're talking about finished products. We need to know what these final products are. Shouldn't a list come out?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u332	Pharmaceutical products.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u333	Let me give you all my remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u334	Minister, keep notes and in your speech you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u335	Secondly, should there not be a list of approved diseases to be treated with cannabis for pharmaceutical reason? Because, as you know, there's also a finding in your ministry. There was also a decision, I suppose, last year, that you had created a committee that would make the finding, to see what diseases are that are going on around the use of Indian cannabis and its beneficialness - if there is - result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I ask: why not export the extracts, but only the final product? What are these final products? What are the approved diseases associated with? Finally, we believe that the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes is positive. We are also saying 'yes' to the decriminalisation of use for euphoric reasons. And I'm going to address my dear friend, Jason Firela, the lawyer. Dear Jason, if you were to ask me in the street: 'Smith, to take drugs', I would say 'No, of course not. Are you crazy? They won't do you any good." But if you ask me, "Softly, I have the right to choose for myself, even the way of my self-destruction?", I will tell you that you have every right. That is the notion of liberalism and with this liberal look we see this draft law and we therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u336	That's about all the drugs, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u337	No, you're just talking about this now. That's all he was missing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kefaloyannis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. I will, as usual, begin with one comment on the latest developments and reshaping. I think we all know that a government reshape is a leading moment for the country's political life, and that, otherwise, it is a new and hopeful reboot that enriches the experience gained by the government with a new quality. But if anyone wants to say a phrase about the last reshaping, I think he would say that he would finally say that he was giving a term and setting Mr Fotis Kouvelis! And somehow I think that whatever serious comments one could make about the changes in yesterday's government pattern, as the spoon from yesterday has been taken by the citizens through social media, who did not have to stir up their minds too much to echo the timeline and especially Mr Kouvellis' choice. And we do not know, obviously, what was more burdened by the crisis of Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, and led him to this choice. Is it because of the pedestrian and miserable management of inner-party tendencies within the SYRIZA, which did not allow anyone else to accept being a substitute for Mr. Kammenos? Is it perhaps that national defence is not a matter of secondary importance to the Prime Minister and his close circle at a time when the aggressive Turkish attitude has taken dangerous proportions? Or is the Prime Minister's patronage in executives capable and trusted to run from limited to license? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's reform is particularly teaching for all of us. Governments testify to their decline when recycled in increasingly smaller circles of skill and trust, when they fear or simply cannot be renewed. And Mr. Tsipras now seems to have lost all contact with reality by choosing a man who he had called a 'policy courier'. As for Mr Kouvelli, I would very much like to know how a former party leader of the Democratic Left feels - who had even been proposed to become President of the Republic - who, as of today, has been a member of Mr Kammenos. Mr Kammenos - to remind you of this for the Minutes - has recently called Mr Kouvelis 'the lord of the pillows'. Mr. Kouvelis once was a representative of a moderate and reasonable Left. And even from Leonidas Kyrkos to Antonis Samaras many invested in his mild refreshing leftism and his supposedly institutional commitment. As far as I'm concerned - and I'm ending here - his history obviously doesn't erase and maintain my respect. Unfortunately, however, 'the deprives the first', as our people say, and unfortunately the same applies to him. Those of us who have not had any trouble at all, and those who have been fighting since the first moment for the European perspective, understanding the real historical problems in recent years, should finally think about what a mild and general reason means and how authoritarianism and institutional decline can sometimes hide the composting of an unreasonable morality. And now I come to the bill. I would like to make a comment in principle. If I judge of the positions, both the rapporteurs and the representatives of most of the parties, who voted in favour, today's bill I think it gave the opportunity to many, it has been offered - it says - a way of showing a progressive, liberal opinion. The dividing line created through the discussion in committees over the past period is about this: Do you want to or not to use cannabis, which has been scientifically documented as having therapeutic properties? It has even been heard by some that, on the basis of this draft law, the liberalism of the New Democracy has proved to be unscathed, as the fear of voters and conservative reactions is supposed to have established our position. They have even made the debate and the ethical dimension of the matter. We deprive ourselves - they claim - of a patient - and with a severe illness - of a medicine he needs. Many patients - claimed someone else - resort to illegality. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, the questions one by one. The first question that needs to be cleared up. Is the plant today characterised as a drug substance or as a addictive substance - such as the specific law - of which it is now known as a medicinal cannabis medicine? And of course the answer is no. It is the same cannabis, the same hashish - as our people say - which is used either for pharmaceutical purposes or has psychotropic properties and is characterised by the law - now that we are talking about drugs. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Today, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking in this bill about the use or not of cannabis for pharmaceutical use? And here's the answer is no. The debate today is not about whether there should be any use of cannabis for pharmaceutical reasons. If we want to credit something positive to the present government, it is true that there is a KHS, that is, a joint ministerial decision, since last June - which the Minister has signed - with which the road to the circulation and administration of cannabis medicinal products has opened. Can a company come from abroad today and tell the EOF that I have a preparation that I can make available if the EOF approves it? Of course he can. If you have any objections, the Minister will tell us where there is an objection. Today we are only discussing cannabis cultivation, which can also be used for pharmaceutical use. There is a legal framework. You yourself created it. So the debate on whether or not we are in favour of or against the pharmaceutical status of cannabis is not about this bill. We can have another kind of conversation, but not this. And we're placed for this thing, and we're clear. On whether there are completely different opinions from others, or whether there are scientific studies on this issue, we can have this debate. Today, however, this bill - for Greek citizens to understand us - is not about the use of cannabis for pharmaceutical reasons. It concerns the cultivation of hemp, the same plant that can be used as a narcotic and for pharmaceutical purposes. We are talking about cultivation and not for use or use. As far as this draft law is concerned - and as I said, we are not discussing the legal use of cannabis - we are only discussing the production of finished cannabis medicinal products in our country. And here, Minister, we need a clarification: what do we mean by a final product? Because I understand that in this Chamber if we ask ten colleagues what is a final product, they will give you ten different answers. It should be clarified, because we do not know what we will vote as the final product of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u340	If you are going to vote, we will tell you in great detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u341	With great attention, Minister, I expect your clarification. But if you don't have hopes, we're not going to vote on the bill. But it is good for you to clarify what you consider to be a final product. And here strangely most of the colleagues in favour felt that the bill was rough and unclear. The fact is that we are actually having to put ourselves on a draft law for which we do not know anything about the framework that regulates the production process. And for us, ladies and gentlemen, it is a major one. And, of course, it concerns us enough and how the House can monitor in a democratic way and assess this legislative initiative of the Government, when almost all the regulations required are referred to in a future joint ministerial decision. It tells you, Mr Ministers, and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. In particular, comments on Article 1(4): ‘Since the terms and conditions of Article 1(2) of the draft law are set out in paragraph 1 of the bill, there is a need to consider whether the addition of others may be the subject of legislative balancing’. So what's he telling you? That what paragraph 4 of this article may not be the subject of a joint ministerial decision, perhaps it is the most correct legal interpretation - a presidential decree and most likely that this provision should also be suppressed as an anti-constitutional provision. It's something the Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you so that you don't find yourself surprised if this provision falls into a courtroom. And I ask: is it secondary that there is also no commitment to the amount of production and how is it absorbed? There's nothing in the bill. Does it not concern you what is going to happen with the quantity produced in case it is not absorbed by the state or even by export? Is it not a cause for concern what will happen to the quantities that are unavailable? Should it not be checked that this quantity, which is produced, is also true? For example, one farmer may say that I produced a 'x' quantity, because I had a catastrophe and eventually produced two 'x' quantities. This is something that, unfortunately, we will not be able to control, Mr Ministers, and indeed they will also ask for aid through ELGA, that it has a disastrous production. Double, then, profit. So that is enough for us, and only for the bad legislative initiative to vote against the current draft law at first hand. And that is why we are not discussing today - I will repeat it for once - the use of cannabis and for pharmaceutical reasons. Today we are talking about cultivation. It comes in a rough way, in a bad legislative way, and that is why we are voting against it. And it may be that in the eyes of some people this attitude is lacking in progress, but believe me in the eyes of the overwhelming Greek society is not lacking in consistency and seriousness. And that's for us. It's the big one. I would like to focus on the issue of development expectations, which we have heard both in plenary and in committees before. In fact, some reports hosting statements by government officials and ministers, talking about very large investments, of the order of hundreds of millions and billions, appeared. Indeed - correct me, Mr Apostle, Minister for Rural Development - you told BLOOMBERG that these investments could be more than EUR 1.5 billion. In fact, Mr. Tsironis spoke of 1.5 billion, 2 billion. And "AGEY", the government newspaper, spoke of over 2 billion. I'd suggest we get the data a little. I have heard many of my fellow Members mention the example of Israel. Israel, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the data that it has created - and it is supposed to be an organised country - a country where research and medical bodies have been trying to produce this process on a commercial exploitation - the first two years in which it has implemented this provision has invested, not profits, 50 million, or 1.5 billion, or 2 billion, which the government is currently invoking. All this at a time when this state, Israel, supports both research and scientific efforts, and finances research, clinical studies on cannabis. After a number of years, that is, after eight years of efforts together with the start-ups which have been created, at the moment in Israel the whole added value is 250 million and not billion, which have been heard in this Chamber and in the committees. I'm on it. In the Netherlands, the only country in the European Union that exports lawfully cannabis, only one producer is currently active. So is the Czech Republic. In Cyprus, only two companies are licensed and for a limited period of 15 years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So let us keep a small basket and stop mocking Greek society that suddenly the investors of the billions will come here and we will suddenly get out of the crisis through this industry. We must see the real facts, bring a real framework which will also create the right conditions for these patients, who really need it, and let us not increase the expectations of Greek society that through this industry we will suddenly be able to overcome the crisis. I conclude with the amendments, Nos 1504/114. Unfortunately, it also continues in this bill from the government's point of view the usual bad legislative practice of 'tsubama' in an amendment to heterogeneous provisions, with which one might agree with others. If the amendment is broken, we will be placed differently. Obviously, we agree, for example, with the creation of an institutional framework for non-interventional studies, how much more so when Greece is, unfortunately, ubiquitous in pharmaceutical research and annually, approximately 200 million are lost due to bureaucracy. We reserve, Minister, a reservation in Article 1(6), which gives the Minister the power to regulate all specific issues of non-interventional studies by decision. The same applies to the regulation of Article 4 on intangible recipes and intangible references, in which of course we are positive, but we cannot agree with the provisions of Article 2 of the same amendment. I do not know how many people you have noticed in here, but we are talking, for example, about a procedure of settling between EEIGs and MCCs, with returnable amounts due by the MAGPs through the claw back and created not only in the same year but also next year. I think we are obviously assuming that there will be such debts without knowing what the financial data for next year are. It creates us an ambiguity of the whole thing. If the amendment does not break, i.e. if it does not come into separate articles, we are rather oriented towards 'the present' in terms of this amendment. I shall close with the last amendment No 1503/113. We disagree to the extent that it amends, without changing the philosophy of Article 27 of Law 4472/2017, with which we had disagreed and voted against from the outset. I think that today's amendment is simply a confession that this law, No 4472/2017, in terms of supplies, has actually collapsed. So we are voting against this bill for the reasons I have put forward, because we really need to have a real debate on the issue of the use of cannabis and pharmaceuticals, but this bill is not about this debate and we commit ourselves as a next government, if it remains the way it is in this context, to change it, to bring it to its right dimension. If it remains that way, of course, we will abolish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. We will continue with Mr. Kelles from New Democracy. I would like to inform you which speakers have left. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC, will follow Mr Kelles, Mrs Inglezi, Mr Gülekas and Mr Vésiropoulos. We shall thus conclude everyone's first-time speeches and the list of speakers. Then we'll see who wants to be second-guessed, and from there the Minister will close. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the legalisation of cannabis production for pharmaceutical use and its final products. The cannabis by common ministerial decision since June 2017 has been classified in the list of substances B, which contains substances with a high risk of abuse used for therapeutic purposes, but which are under the exclusive control of supply, circulation and disposal of the State. Therefore patients may have wider and easier access to this drug for medical and therapeutic purposes. But is that why you bring the bill today? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? Because you don't have some studies. What is the demand for this medicine in Greece? How much demand does he have from Greek patients? What needs are there? How are the cannabis to be used? Ladies and gentlemen, is healing use of cannabis? Clearly not. What's he using? Analgesic, mostly cancer patients. Are there enough painkillers on the Greek market? Pabola, from light to stronger. Let me be a doctor. I don't know about that. See what the official report by the Hellenic Society of Pathologists says? I read: ‘The existing data in no case are an argument for the use of cannabis in cancer patients. In fact, in many cases they also have a negative effect.’ What does the European Medicines Agency say? I read: "They have no place in treatment today because of the lack of strong clinical data, and it appears that they may help to manage the symptoms caused by cancer." So do you expect it to be available for some other use, let me say euphoric - I say now - beyond agricultural production and the economy? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is completely handy, it is unclear, it is unprepared and it omits the most important part of the procedures in arrangements by means of joint ministerial decisions, which creates strong reservations about the effectiveness of the entire legislative project. That is why the relevant ministers must give answers today. Despite our insistence on the committees, we did not get any until today. In particular: How many permits will be granted, Minister? We asked the committee, but we didn't get an answer. One, two, ten? Is there gonna be a limit? If these licences are unlimited, who will control the production units? What will happen to the disposal of finished products? What will happen with the absorption of production surpluses? In order to come to the authorisation process and submit the relevant application, this says through CSR will be determined. However, it is not mentioned what the receiving authority and the rating authority will be. Will EOF be the Ministry of Health, will it be the Ministry of Rural Development and Food? Mr. Apostle, will you have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u344	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u345	Will it be the General Chemistry of the State? Who will collect this paradox? How much is this paradox going to be? Is it going to be every license? Is it gonna be per area output? Will it be one? Say it. Why don't you say it? So, why are you gonna know them and now you don't know them? Why now don't you know them and then with the ministerial decisions you'll know? I don't understand. Along with the application, you also request supporting documents such as the certification of the police department concerned for adequate storage of the premises and storage of the product. Right? And now you're saying that the police will come and check, after the investment takes place, because the investment will be made to get the money from the police, the investor will be adequately kept. What if he doesn't take the paper? Is the investment gone? Are the money lost? Is it possible with an application for permission to want the police attestation to be adequate? But if she's taken, she doesn't have to do anything. If he makes the investment, and he's not approved, he's lost the money. Isn't that right? If I'm wrong, tell me I'm wrong. And who will control the storage and processing units and the transport process? For the process of production and processing and storage there is absolutely nothing clear about, and there is no provision for spatial planning in relation to areas. Where are they going to work? Will they be away from schools? Is she gonna be next to schools? Is he going to be in the houses? Is it going to be in residential areas, other than inhabited areas? Because I heard before a SYRIZA colleague - I don't remember who he was - who said that in Piraeus he might have been next to schools. But is there an area of four acres within the Piraeus area to make such an installation? We're not that naive. Will the product exported result in pharmaceutical destinations or markets where it will be used for euphoric reasons? It is laid down that authorisation, i.e. authorisation, may be withdrawn. By whom will it be recalled? Directly from the Minister or will there be a specific authority? Is there someone else going to give her permission to call it off? We're not getting anywhere. As our rapporteur, in Cyprus, in the Czech Republic and Italy, pointed out, there are legislative frameworks that are complete and clear. In Cyprus, the law includes a hundred and sixty pages, and you brought us a five-page law and all the rest will be done by ministerial decisions. And why are you bypassing the Committee on Drugs, ladies and gentlemen? Now, with regard to rhetoric for the relief of patients, the procedures for prescribing and invoking finished products are not even regulated. Will they be accessible to patients? How will they be granted? And here's the void again. This will also be regulated by ministerial decision by the Minister responsible. So, that thing you've brought now, do you consider it legislation? In support of this, and because you refer also to the sensitivity to patients, a framework of action for informing doctors, pharmacists, patients and especially public opinion about side effects is missing in the bill. There's a side effect on the cannabis. It's addiction. It's the psychotic episodes. As a doctor, I'm telling you this. Shouldn't it have taken a period of clinical trials to make a statement by EOF and the Ministry of Health about the diseases and diseases on which this drug will be administered? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you have your mind, but the reason that you bring this bill with multiple points in blackout and in retrospective arrangements demonstrates that you are probably pushing the ground for the opening of the use of cannabis for other purposes than pharmaceuticals. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that with the legalisation of cannabis it is you who will leave the progressive footprint in the governance of the country, we are sorry, but we will not follow you. The legalisation of the use of drugs and trade at a time and in a country which is plagued by drug trafficking, we do not consider it to be progress. Furthermore, your sensitivity and your progressiveity have shown it three years that you are ruling, by further reducing pensions, subsidiary, by abolishing the CSCE, by increasing VAT and by confiscation of the property of the Greek State in the supreme administration. 'No' clearly, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u347	I was under the impression that Mr. Blonde was going to speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Xanthos will speak at the end after we finish with the list of speakers. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u349	Apart from what the bill regulates, it is natural or objectively or intentionally the debate is general. We don't have a problem. We have been placed many times on general issues. I'm going to put a code on what the JRC says about general drug issues. We say 'no' to all drugs, either hard or soft, as they baptize them. We say, 'Life as a whole and not in drug-dose doses'. We say that there are possibilities for young people to live first and foremost, but in general, workers, with happiness and enjoy human culture, rather than resorting to a fictional and false world, through the hallucinations of drugs, which the system pushes them the same way as the deadlocks it creates that prefers youth in the breast and not in the fight to overthrow the system. For this society, and for these ideals, where the economy will move towards meeting human needs and not the profit of a handful that is plucking the wealth of our country and of humanity, for this society we call on them to fight and close their ears to those who want either to plant hash or take their dose officially or informally. As far as the bill is concerned, what exactly does it do? Because there was a general debate here. In our opinion, the bill - and so it - releases the production of hemp and products for medical purposes, whether or not imported. What does the government say? He says: "We are interested in alleviating human pain, dealing with it. There are needs for patients who find relief..." - I didn't hear "therapy", but this can also - "to such products. We are therefore changing the institutional framework.' Is that so? Is there an institutional framework today for cannabis production for medical purposes and products from it? Yes or no? There's the previous law. Doesn't it give you the chance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u350	Introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u351	And production, with a state monopoly. Read it. Secondly, is there any possibility of prescribing such medicines? There's such a possibility. Is it expensive? There are problems, etc.Huh? Let's talk about it. However, there is an institutional framework and the provision is that only the state can produce and, of course, control this whole area. Why don't we discuss this framework if it wants to improve? What, then, does the government change with this bill? The government frees this sector and throws it into gambling and the profit of the 'paracists', the multinational killers. That's what she does. He's giving him to business groups. And, indeed, because these are the heights of the investment, stop mocking farmers that they can make cooperatives and produce the medical cannabis, which, anyway, is the common hashish, so that we can get together. It's nothing different. That's what you're doing. You liberate and the business groups, known already, are known before the bill comes, Israelis, Americans, Canadians, grandchildren. Why are they coming? To deal with the pain of Greek patients that the state cannot cover? Who are you telling? They come to invest in the excellent climatic conditions that Greece has for this production, the cheap workforce that your Government has advertised in the United States and elsewhere, in the working relations of jungle and modern slavery that you have together with the other parties creates with the memoranda and the laws you have adopted and in a context that you are helping them. I'll tell the rest. It is therefore an extension, which, of course, has great peculiarities, of the general political development, capitalist development, which promotes and not only serves but is also advertised by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and which agrees with all the other parties and argues about who will implement it. That is why the criticism of the other parties is not even a guerrilla war, it is harassment in secondary and triumphant parties rather than in essence. So since you say that it is about dealing with the problems of patients, which do exist and which, under certain conditions, can be discussed about them, why do you not go to state investments? There are vast state areas. Why don't you do that? Why do you not move on to vertical integration, that is to say to investments from the Public Investment Programme and elsewhere, in order to meet these needs? Because your policy serves the interests of capital. It provides way out to fast and great profit in pond funds. That's growth. And that's not all. As far as we can see - we cannot be in the discussions that are taking place - there are certain requirements of the companies that come up for regulations that the bill has for their benefit. In other words, while the bill is very clear in the conditions laid down by the capitalist nature of the investment - verticalisation, production, possession, transfer, processing, storage, etc. - the others have a deliberate ambiguity and refer them to ministerial decisions. One of the prisoners. You create better conditions - and we will prove it because - for the multinationals who come to invest in this area. For example, why are you taking out the Narcotics Commission to tell it both about investment and on the way? Why? What does previous law say? ‘The operation of factories treated with drugs products and preparations shall take place after agreement of the Committee on Drugs’, Article 11 4139/2013. Now why are you taking her off? Why should this committee, which has special scientific knowledge, not control the big business? Is it their requirement - which is very likely - or is it your facility and exaggerated zeal? And that's a matter. The term ‘final cannabis medicinal products’ shall be used. Why is the substances not clearly identified? Because you know that very well and better than me - I say about the ministers, but it is a matter of government as a whole, it is not just a matter of ministers - how many substances there are on cannabis and how many are considered, anyway, to have soothing properties or may have been or have been investigated. And the others are all under discussion, whether they are toxic or cause what has been analysed accurately, and our rapporteur, Manolis Synthrakis and George Lambroulis, who is a doctor. So what kind of room do you leave? General use of cannabis and this may lead to the sale of dried cannabis bags, as sold in the Netherlands and elsewhere, by the companies themselves, when you say 'final products of cannabis'. Because, as you know, we're talking about multinationals, I'll remind you of something historic. All America and all humanity were filled with posters of "BAYER", advertising "take heroin to escape morphine". Don't tell me you don't know that. We are talking about 'BAYER', one of the largest, colossal industries. Of course, this also opens up the way for the decriminalisation of a total of drugs and, in particular, of Indian cannabis. We have heard a lot of messages here. Shame on you! This signal is given to young people by some who unleashed'sweet' and tomorrow - why not? - "Take both your syringes and dose"? Is that the message? Are they harmless? It's a natural product they say. All natural products are. But they also have some specific consequences, which are well known. What does the experience of other countries, such as Austria, Italy, the United States of America say? It says that where the road was opened with medical use, etc., it was a vehicle for complete release. I also have evidence of today's CEDEFOP press report - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, and I do not want to read it - about what the American Committee on Drugs says and what it has. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They say some of the rapporteurs and others: 'But all countries go ahead. Are we going to stay back? Are we going to stay away?" What countries are they moving on? What are these progressing countries? The ones who think about the community as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u352	Expanded, Mr. Paphie. Of the largest European countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u353	But the Netherlands is one of the most developed and half the students smoke hashish from fifteen years old. The United States of America is the world's most developed capitalist country - and I have the data here - and it is 66% less than sixteen years old in drugs while in the Netherlands 42%. I have the official evidence. Greece, in this context and we do not agree, of course, is in the latter - not to say the latter - on drugs. So by comparing the developed countries and the data they have, what do these elements of the capitalist countries show? They show that where the road opens and the use is released - and the debate is only that it is good and that it does not have any consequences, etc., especially when it comes to the Indian cannabis - automatically raises consumption. There is evidence of this in Greece. When the debate was opened at that time - you tickle me and I will say it now - with a joint motion of Members of the New Democracy, Coalition and PASOK for total decolonisation, etc., it has risen sharply. As these words of innocence open up, and what does good and recreational, the worse the situation is getting worse. Finally, because I don't have time and I don't want to abuse him, is the Communist Party of Greece indifferent to them? There's a systematic symposium. Because his hair drowned, so are those who want to blame us, because they can't justify everything they do, they're lying to us. So what do we say? I'll read it again to inspire it. We say that the herbal cannabis because of the large number of active substances - these are scientific conclusions - which it contains, for the vast majority of which we do not know the effects, interactions, side effects with each of them and their various combinations - cannot in itself be used as a medicinal product. Our rapporteur Manolis Synthrakis and George Lambroulis analysed it scientifically, documented. I don't have time to analyse it now. Secondly, on the other hand, specific active substances isolated from cannabis or can be composed, even artificially, could be used for medical, pharmaceutical, comforting purposes, in cases where existing medicines are not sufficient. Is it clear what the JRC says or not? I say this because you blame us for not caring for the patient's health. And it cares about you who are in 'NOVARTIS', 'BAYER' and all the multinationals who are interested and cut! What do we say next? The main condition is to treat active substances as medicines, namely their isolation from the plant or their technical - chemical production, and to carry out clinical studies to determine their indications of use, their pharmacokinetic characteristics, their safety profile, their interactions with other medicines, in order to provide patients with the greatest possible safety and efficacy. You know, all that circulates that each one of himself finds the cure, it's darkening, returning to the Middle Ages and serving other goals than politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Palphie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u355	Fourthly, an important condition for the implementation of this and for ensuring, first of all, the safety of patients is strict control by the State itself of production, processing, disposal and administration of such medicines with strict scientific criteria and with psychiatric monitoring of patients who receive them. We know that such problems can only be tackled in another society as a whole. That's what we're fighting for. There are preconditions. But here, we're telling you. Why don't you make it a state monopoly? Investments in the agricultural economy, factories, etc. You'll tell me there's no money. How many billions of development incentives do you give everyone? How much? Take out the programs. How much do you give? Here the others are silent about all this. So why can't it even work like this in this system? As for the medicine. Why don't you make a state drug industry to hit the competitiveness of the multinationals who impose what they want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Colleague, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u357	Yeah, wait a minute. But you know we have secondarys, we have a lot to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u358	I understand it's very important. That's why you've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u359	I'm done. Three minutes, Mr. President. I'm not asking for more. That's self-evident. You do not, for you have made a choice to serve this system and even better than others. That's why the others go out on the tiles. You eat them the bread! You're more advanced and you make it faster and with fewer consequences. But you should know that the people take you crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Municipal School of Xanthi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Iglezis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on the production, control and disposal of medicinal cannabis preparations. This is a bill that comes to respond with sensitivity and sense of responsibility to the need to create a new sector for our country, for which in most European countries there is already institutional regulation. So today we are listening to an important social demand, to institutionalise and legitimise the possibility of domestic production and final processing of medicinal cannabis products. I stress the 'pharmaceutical', ladies and gentlemen, because no matter how much the opposition tries to lead to the debate on the release of the use of cannabis, the decriminalisation of the possession or the presentation of this bill as the 'dirty horse' for the uncontrolled use of addictive substances, it cannot succeed. This is because the debate on the bill brings us to the face, with questions in a completely different context, questions relating to the medical value of cannabis, by facilitating patients who can benefit from it, but also by developing know-how on conditionality, conditions and strict control. In a modern context of dealing with diseases and their consequences, but also using nature to deal with them, we cannot blind ourselves. Our country has the comparative advantage of having these natural conditions which favour cultivation not only of cannabis but also of other pharmaceutical plants. For the development and introduction of pharmaceutical plants and herbs in the country we have to discuss in full and thoroughly the next period, from genetic resource assurance to structured introduction to our medical system. I hope, Mr President-in-Office, that there will be relevant initiatives from the relevant ministries in the coming period. On the occasion of the cannabis medicinal product, however, it appears that we are facing an important challenge, which we are called upon to assess, if, that is to say, we are going to enable the productive forces in the country to shape and have an active role in the whole chain, from cultivation to processing and final processing of products and the placing on the market of preparations containing medicinal cannabis. As much as we do not want to see this as a heinous development issue, because it relates to very sensitive sides and is related to the healing of people, it has, in fact, a specific economic cycle, a circle of people who will invest in it, who will not necessarily be large-scale or pharmaceutical multinationals, but can be young farmers or cooperative productive schemes, a cycle of those under strict control will develop processing activities and will also place products on the market. From this cycle the primary beneficiary will not be exclusively any investor. Yes, indeed, there will be opportunities to promote productive investment in this sector and there will be development benefits in the economy and the state. Ultimately, the patient is actually benefiting, and that is our concern, that the patient who is in need of these products can have access to them more easily, safer and without prejudice, but of course at less cost. With the draft law we are debating today, natural or legal persons will be able to produce cannabis sativa, for the sole purpose of producing only finished medicinal cannabis products and of supplying the state monopoly for the disposal to patients and export for medical purposes. This is an important and necessary institutional step for our country, namely the integration of cannabis and its products into the medical system in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, to date the way in which the system of use of cannabis in the country was shaped could not serve the needs of the patients. The availability, accessibility and reasonable cost of the substances were not guaranteed. In addition, the suffocating conditions of the system in place did not allow development prospects to be exploited and cannabis pharmacy, attracting investment and creating new labour markets. By legislating today's legislation, this framework will be substantially amended and we will constantly seek to improve this system. Efforts are obviously not being stopped here and the greatest effort must be made with society, not so much with this part of society that the products of the pharmaceutical cannabis need to find relief, improve his health and have a better quality of life, because this part of society knows very well, but with that part of society that deals with these issues by prejudice. Informing public opinion is therefore necessary not only for the possibilities offered, but also for potential risks, because as is true of all medicines, we need to be wise in their use and information. In any case, however, we owe structured and delimited steps to open roads and to ensure the self-evident right of access to health to everyone. This effort can only unite us, ladies and gentlemen, and lead us to fertile paths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u362	Thank you to Mrs Inglezis and to the formality of time. Here, Mr Güleka, you have the floor on behalf of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous colleague said that we all have the right to free access to health. Sure. No one disagrees. That's not the point. To make something clear, does anyone say 'no' to the use of cannabis for medical purposes? Of course not. But it's already done. You do not suddenly come, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to implement a revolution in the field of health and enter the use of cannabis. There's the cannabis used. We're talking about cultivation. That's the point. This is the "baker". That is what concerns us. I hear many, as I have already said, focusing on issues that are not covered by this bill. What's this bill? This is a bill that has two articles, according to which you are talking about the possibility of cultivating cannabis, of the kind 'Cannabis Sativa L' containing tetrahydrocannabinol - I am a legal person, I am not a doctor, so you see that I am not familiar with these terms - more than 0.2% for pharmaceutical purposes. That's the point. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about a bill debate - and this is how we are a legislative body - I ask the ministers of the government: have you brought this bill to ask for the approval of this House or have you brought the bill to ask the House's mandate to you, to legislate further and outside the House with all the documents provided? Because it's all provided for in C.E.A. All of you refer to MSUs, such as crop conditions, controls, storage. So it's all reported to CRAs. And if you don't tell me that I'm too much, your bill is all two pages and that's what you regulate, ladies and gentlemen, this burning issue. This draft law shall contain the following in Article 1. I read: "Approval is provided by common decision of the Ministers for Economy, Development, etc.", "... by decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Economy, Development, Justice, Transparency, etc., further terms and conditions are laid down, in particular, concerning the granting of approval, the submission of additional documents...", etc. Below on the two pages there are four references to CFDs that are to be issued in order to regulate the issues you do not regulate here. In other words, "For the adoption of the above Ministerial Decisions, no opinion is required... "... and the EOF approves production...", but you say below "... as all of this will be determined by a decision of the Minister of Health on a proposal from the EOF." Ladies and gentlemen, these are all major issues, because we are talking about the cultivation of a drug, about hashish. Hashish is forbidden. If anyone here or out of here - because we have heard many of them, many of whom are partners in the party and in the government - dream of the neoliberalisation of the hashish and free access to the hashish, so that one can rejoice and buy hashish and our children may be able to be in this beautiful, angelicly fake world of drugs - your colleagues have said that - then say so clearly. But when you come here, you must bring legislation, with which to anticipate these major issues, because in advance Mr. Konstantinos took the floor, said: "Here, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you are conducting a trial of intent." No, we don't do intent trial. But come on, you can convince us that it is not, indeed, in your intentions - I will not say that you have a bad intention - to regulate them in such a way that they do not fully guarantee all those which are our own fears. How do we know? So, by giving you the approval in advance to take off the CPUs and then we'll see if the CPUs cover? But this is where we legislate. You don't legislate in the ministries. The Joint Ministerial Decisions are designed to regulate individual issues. Are all the issues that you refer to in the NSAs for you? I ask: Where will the hashish be cultivated? Near settlements? Near schools? Near churches? Near hospitals? Nothing. The C.R.A. will tell us. There's nothing in the law, we couldn't write those. Alas! It would be wrong to write to a law that this should be in a remote space that everyone cannot have access to. All this is not written in the law. These must be reported to the CRA. Also, when it comes to keeping crop areas, what do you say in your law? In the case where it says that the application is accompanied by a certificate from the police department concerned that the conditions and conditions for safe storage have been complied with in respect of the farming areas at the premises of the processing plant, the storage points. In other words, a police station, to say it fatter, a police officer, a policeman, a policeman, who is in Apokoronos or elsewhere, will be able within his burdened programme, in his duties, to come and do all this control and finally to certify that these conditions are met. Who? A police officer, while we are aware of the pressure that all police officers are under, and when we know that police officers cannot even do what is self-evident that they must act. The day before yesterday, the police and the police were here and they couldn't intervene there, and you trust the guarding and respecting all these conditions in the police bodies. I go further: Quantities. You're not saying anything. He'll be able - he says - to grow. How much? What? It'll be determined by a CIA. What will be determined? From what I've read, I may have been wrong. Mr. Apostle, you have something to do with the crops...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u364	If you don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u365	Allow me. Disprove me if that's not the case. I have, however, read that four acres may give a higher yield of even 30 thousand pounds, because I have learned the following. I didn't know them, I tried, too, and I turned to scientific writings, to see exactly what's going on in cultivation. The way I've been informed, it can be done twice and three times a year, this cycle of production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, if you'll excuse me very much, but should this not be defined here? You define only four acres. And who's gonna do all this? It will be made by a man who must have the strict conditions, to have completed his twenty - first year of age.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u366	Change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u367	And not to have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u368	Change that. It's eighteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u369	Yes, sir. It's eighteen. And even if he has not even been convicted of felony, not of defects. That is to say, a number of provisions are envisaged here. You say that approval, etc., is excluded from being convicted and you have things like blackmail, forgery, fraud, a lawyer's infidelity, bribery, bribery. If anyone has been convicted of a crime and has to do with the drug world, should it not be excluded? So, do we have to put this man, who happily escaped - if he escaped - from the drug world? Unfortunately, this is a scourge. Should you give him permission to cultivate the hashish in whose world he might have been involved? I don't understand all this. I also do not understand, at the end of the day, what you define as a final product, which is what it is. For you, Minister, in the ministerial decision - I am not trying to interpret you, I have read your statement exactly - you say that there is a chance that there is a CFO, that the final product can be the bloom, that is, the fodder, which will be exported or anything else. Finally, we must not know exactly what is going to happen, in what way? We really expect to know and we want to know, and all of this is planned to be regulated in the UAA. Not even presidential decrees, that is to say, which are subject to the control of the Council of State, but to a CSCE in general, as if it were an issue, which can, by a sloppy way, be regulated. It's just a cuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u370	Colleague, if you'd like to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u371	I will end in a minute, Mr President. There is curiosity, there is unclearness, there is generality. So basically three ministries involved - and others involved - have you worked out the bill to bring these two pages? Is that the cause of the three ministries, which you thoroughly considered the matter? I would like to ask the following question: why was there not a public consultation? Why did you bring this piece of legislation, you went through it with Parliament's procedures in a committee and did not even invite the institutions to table proposals, to listen to them, to discuss, to formulate a point of view, and in the end to say, 'You know, we have followed this process and what is wrong on the way, of course, we will fix it'? You come on your way, call the emergency agencies, and even the bodies you call, you get negative answers. What do the agencies say? Mrs Macridakis, the first Vice-President of the EFO, speaks of an institutional gap. What does the Athens Bar Association say, the country's legal world? He's talking about the need to set up insurance logs. We don't. It is not the bad New Democracy, which opposes the good government of SYRIZA and ANELs. That's what certain agencies call them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u372	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u373	I will end in a minute, Mr President. I'm last. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u374	Last is Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u375	I'll be right over. What does Mrs Marina Chiga say, the President of the National Council against Drugs? ‘Inadequate and not timely information’. All this, frankly, is putting us in great doubts about what you are after all seeking. I will accept what you said, Minister, that in other countries the framework is softer, in others it is harder. In Italy alone, the army cultivates hashish and in Austria only the state. In other countries there is more'soft' legislation. Indeed, it is, as you say. There is no two-page legislation in any country. No country! There is a legislation which at least provides for very detailed conditions, conditions, all of which we must have. I read the Minister of Economy himself, Mr. Papadimitriou, the Minister until yesterday, who at the Interministerial Council on 7 February, ladies and gentlemen, hear what he said: "The cultivation of hemp is a strategic investment for the government. The aim is to develop newly created entrepreneurship, the country's development prospects and course, new jobs." I wonder: Mr Papantoniou - of course, now he has left his post, but as long as he was in this position - did not feel the need to apologize, why has the investment not gone ahead in the Greek? You're cut off and cut off for jobs through the cultivation of the hashish, and the Greek one talking about thousands of jobs, you've frozen it and nobody talks about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u376	Put a perfect one, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u377	I shall conclude immediately, saying 'yes' to the use of cannabis, of course, for medical purposes. We are, of course, saying 'yes' in terms, but also in terms of conditions. We say 'no' to any vague regulation, which actually leads to the decriminalisation of the hashish. I am sorry, honestly, but we are full of doubts, Mr Ministers, because many of your partners - I repeat - have spoken openly to the government and to your party, to move forward with the decriminalisation of the hashish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this government has shown suffrage with which it is carrying out its legislative work. In all things, however, there are limits, even to clandestineness and irresponsibility. This is not understood by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Proof is the bill he brought for the production of medicinal cannabis. The New Democracy agrees with the use of cannabis for medical and pharmaceutical purposes, except that there is no insurance provisions in this bill to ensure that hemp production is not diverted to other channels. It is very simple, ladies and gentlemen, the bill in fact concerns the production of cannabis and not its use for pharmaceutical purposes. Some use the example of the Netherlands, in which cannabis use and trafficking is free and for entertainment reasons. Have you really asked the Greek citizens, if they want to follow the Dutch model which is the only one, when in most countries there is a perfectly rational framework that limits uncontrolled production and trafficking and focuses only on the use of cannabis for medical and pharmaceutical purposes? Of course you haven't asked them nor will you ever ask them, because you know the answer. That is why you may not have brought the bill into public consultation, as you have not asked them, nor are you going to ask them about your choices and your handling on the issue of Skopje. Ladies and gentlemen, in normal circumstances and if the country had a normal government, the issue of cannabis production for medical and pharmaceutical purposes could be dealt with with with the seriousness that needs to be done. The burden of this responsibility falls on the next government. We, however, have to highlight the dangers created by the gaps that leave this bill. In each proposal of the bill, in these three articles, in these two pages of the bill, the dubiousness and the lack of a safety framework are evident to focus on cannabis production and disposal for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. There are no provisions on the storage and control conditions for hemp crops and processing units. You told us this work would be done by the police. Do you know the index of subsistence of the structures of the Greek Police, especially in the region? Let me not mention the issue of licences for cannabis production, for which there are not only strict conditions, but rather the conditions laid down by the government do not give rise to any sense of safety and rationality. The producer or processor is bound to be eighteen years old, following the amendment tabled by the Minister, while the original provision of the bill was twenty-one years old. There is no restriction on the use of licences. Yet there are best practices in other European countries, including Cyprus, which you could adopt and adapt our legislative framework. I will only mention the restriction on the number of licences, but also the control mechanisms that operate in all cases. As far as spatial planning is concerned, the gaps and 'creative ambiguity' dominates here, because it is quite simply not clear whether such crops and processing facilities can be close to sensitive areas such as schools. There are also quantities issues. Why is there no limit on cannabis production, provided the needs for medical and pharmaceutical purposes can be recorded? Apparently, you don't have an economic study. Do you not realize that when a production limit is not introduced, when there are no clear and strict control procedures in the stocks, in the way and in the channels of production being absorbed, then we are leading to dangerous perverts? One thing which also remains unclear is to ensure that all cannabis production is made available for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. When the cannabis is exported, who knows what use this company will use, in which case the product will be taken? Those who talk about investments that will come in the field of cannabis production, what are they based on and how sure that with the framework they create, normal rather than other kinds of investors will come? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote against the bill for the reasons that both I and the other speakers have just mentioned. It is a bill, which only speaks of production, without terms and conditions for medicinal cannabis and not of the use in which we agree. The country has a limited and non-existent sense of responsibility. Even in the issues to which the right speech, understanding and consensus can prevail, such as cannabis production strictly for pharmaceutical and medical purposes, the government undermines this prospect, because it serves secret agendas, feeds on ideologies, invests every time in the humbleest instincts that exist. The answer will come from the citizens and will be very hard on this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. The list of speakers has been completed. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for eighteen minutes. The seconds will follow. The Minister has also asked for the floor for five minutes to make some clarifications. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u381	We had said from the outset, when this debate started, that we hope it will not trigger dreadful, overconservative, darkening and unscientific reflections. We're completely disgusted. Unfortunately, at least three political groups in the House have been with different starting points and different shades. But, unfortunately, both the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn, but in its way and the JRC, I think they triggered such a kind of debate. Now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, they are clearly in favour of the use of cannabis, that there is a framework and what this government wants to do more than that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that there was nothing until a few months ago. There was a law on the cloning hemp adopted by the previous coup d'état in 2013. You have not dared, gentlemen, to make one ministerial decision. With a strong political will, therefore, and at the initiative of the Ministry of Health, for the first time in the country this scientific and political dialogue was officially opened. A working group was set up with the heads of exquisite scientists who gave a finding and of course a joint ministerial decision came out of us. We have created this framework which also has problems in its implementation, but we have legalised patients' access to medicinal cannabis preparations. There was no such framework. So the New Democracy tells us that we have a vague, incomplete, clipboard, a gonatogram - I do not know what else you have said - because so many years after you have been sensitive to patient access, you have not brought a comprehensive bill, which is based on the specifications of other European countries, such as Cyprus, the Czech Republic, such as these examples you have told us? Why didn't you? So we say that we are of course taking a step. It may not be complete, it is not perfect, but it is a first important step, which takes into account the need for patient access, so it has the public health perspective in preparations proven and documented by international literature, from scientific studies, from good practices around the world that they have beneficial, comforting, comforting and under specific conditions and healing, and, of course, we are creating a favourable framework, delimited, clear and safe - of course, its details will be set out in the joint ministerial decisions - which will allow this field. It's a emerging world market. There is a huge scientific interest everywhere in all the countries of the world. There are ongoing clinical investigations into new fields of therapeutic action of these products. We therefore give the opportunity to this new landscape, in which for the first time, for the first time, our country is starting to monitor it and participate, to contribute and give a view of productive reconstruction, economic recovery, investment, employment, etc. We have been listening here for so many days, but with great intensity today, unbelievable dangers, unbelievable catastrophes that we are going to make the country an endless chasm, that the people who will be involved will be about narcotics of the Escobar type, that we have the logic of the ferry, the balconoport as the rapporteur said. What we didn't hear! We have explained it very in detail. This is the authorisation of a single vertically integrated unit comprising production, processing and final processing and production of finished medicinal products. That's what this is about. And I don't know what else you'll be up to, say, incredible things, that we'll have the police throughout the country guard these units. That's right, Mrs. Big housekeeper said so. It's clear, it says, the law once a year if there are security measures, i.e. cameras, security measures, possibly with security, etc. We can't just keep the country's police guarding production or processing units.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u382	Minister, let me make a statement for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the High School and Lyceum of Inousses, which is hosted in Athens, as part of an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u383	I am telling you, in no country in Europe - and I think all of the developed world - this has not been debated on these terms. It is tragic to discuss something that all countries, obviously with a classification, in a range of institutional frameworks, are trying to monitor modern scientific developments, newer data and the need to respond to a emerging market. It has never been done under these terms of warlords, denouncers. The others tell us that we're going to go through a narcocult, cultivate a narcocultu in youth and not fight for the change of society. The others tell us that, precisely because we have this culture of freedom, for ideological reasons, we are going to make the country an endless farm 'bamboo'. That is what you tell us, ladies and gentlemen, and you really want the world to believe that you are a serious party, which reliably demands the country's governance. That is why we believe that this is a progressive step, because it is precisely anti-popular and you have shown that you are the worst popular version of the right-wing party in recent years. We therefore say that a new framework needs to be developed and consciously. Because there is criticism: “Why is it not analytic? Why doesn't he have the details? Why are you hiding these from us?" The answer is very simple: because, precisely because it is a new field and, precisely because - and this has been proven by the experience of other countries in Europe, as someone told me the other day - it took twenty-seven times in a European country to have legislative amendments within the framework - we have a changing landscape, we need an authorised flexibility. That is why we are putting the central idea, the basic lines and, obviously, the secondary legislation, the joint ministerial decisions, the ministerial decisions, the details will be reflected in the next period in terms of both the part of production and the part of the final disposal of the products. I want to say two - three things, because there was a lot of talk about this story, about what is meant by 'final cannabis medicinal products, etc.'. We want to be very clear. What we mean is that we are talking about preparations, which are under the control of the EOF, and they may have different pharmaceutical forms with a final goal for the patient. That's the process. What can be these pharmaceutical forms? It may be pills, it may be oral impurities, it may be solutions, it may be extracts, it may also be a standard piece of the plant, packed, titrated with a THC content, with indications and instructions for use. That's what they do all over the serious and developed world. We're not going to invent anything completely different. So that's the process. Obviously the Committee on Drugs has no competence and role in the production phase. It still has a role, because it's just a special medicine, in the phase that's involved and finally approved and licensed by the EOF. Don't you have confidence in the IFO that he'll do his job right? Let me get this straight. The FDA approves the medications that patients in the country are taking. You have no confidence in the National Agency for Pharmacopoeia that it will check properly and with credibility these final medicinal products? What exactly are you questioning? There must also, of course, be quality and safety standards. This also concerns good agricultural practice - this has been mentioned by the Minister for Rural Development - and also by the stage in which the final medicinal products are produced, i.e. the quality standards that are maintained and controlled by the Agency in proportion to all medicinal products. That is the essence of the matter. Of course they also need good-use standards. I told the committee yesterday. For us it is very important that this should be reflected, and as clearly as possible, medical indications, although they are incredible and changed on the basis of the new research data and the question of electronic prescription, which we said we would proceed with along with other drugs and benzodiazepines by e-prescription, but they are now in two-line prescriptions. Of course there will be a register of patients, registrees, so that, really, we can be sure that these products will be directed to people, to patients with documented, scientific and medical evidence, the need for access to these products. Of course we also need to identify the specialities of doctors, who can also prescribe the inclusion of these medicinal products and of specific therapeutic protocols where they are to be determined, in which order can it be a choice medicine. We have come to doubt you and whether they do have these qualities. Mr Kelles told us: “There are analgesics very strong. What do we want with cannabis medication?", when the whole scientific world knows that there are cases of patients who are resistant to classical treatment and have a very strong therapeutic indication for these preparations. Also, of course, we need to inform health professionals, doctors and pharmacists, patient associations, of course, and society about this new possibility, the new perspective. This is the responsibility of the state, the scientific organs and the medical world to organise it better. Of course, we need a better organization of our services and our ministry, namely the state monopoly, the corresponding management of the Ministry, the EOF. We are doing a very systematic job at this time, adapting the organisational and administrative structure of our services to this new reality. There's no prescription guaranteed and guaranteed everywhere. We talked about it the other day. Now we're making the scenery, now we're creating the frame. There are no prescriptions for any use. We are trying to take into account the views of services, scientific bodies and, of course, in dialogue with society, with patient associations, with the scientific community, to make the best possible and safest control framework. Let me say that the bill was not surprised, because you said that too. If we were to bring it in the form of an amendment, one could say that you might also have a right. We met four ministers, we held a press conference three weeks ago, we presented it. Answers were given to journalists' questions. He got a lot of publicity. For technical reasons, there was simply no timeframe for formal public consultation for a few days. We did three Committees on Social Affairs. A hearing was held. There is extensive discussion and artwork and arguments. I don't think we went wrong, going through such a disastrous and dangerous arrangement is supposed to be in your view. Here I would like to say a word about the criticism of the JRC. Approaching the issue of dependency from the point of view of the socio-economic environment is obviously a consistent and fundamentally correct view. Dependence is a complex phenomenon. It is also a biological and psychological and social phenomenon. And you know very well along the path of history that addictive behaviours have been in societies regardless of socio-economic formations and regardless of regimes. It has to be decided by the JRC or this thing is a window to get into the drug world, so there is no point in this discussion on the further steps or it is something that is conditional, so it must be done under state control. It can't be both. You cannot say 'we want state production' and when private investors are given the opportunity to say 'is bad'. I think we really need to try to get the tons down. I do not think it facilitates the awareness of society and the necessary dialogue that must take place, this type of controversy which either serves ideological approaches or serves narrow micro-groups and anti-government reflexes. I believe that we really do not have a rough regulation to deal with. It may be simple, it may be short, it may not be extensive, but it is not rough. We have enough thought and balance between these wordings, which you have before you. I think that the logic, which he says, is totally concise, is in principle in favour of patient access, and I am in favour of the possibility of growing and producing products, but because I am unclear about the framework. I think it's absolutely pretextful. We therefore consider that we are doing a careful, clearly daring, based on the conservative reflexes of a part of society, which you now for reasons of self-interest, are trying to activate and exploit and capitalize, safe, scientifically documented, open mind and of course a controlled step I think that the majority of our country's citizens can understand this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Pallis has the floor for his dentistry. You've asked for a few minutes from what I've been informed, so I'm putting four minutes and seeing it along the way, if anyone needs more clearly, I won't interrupt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, speaking very little in my terminology of nine minutes and something, much less than many members of the Officerial Representation, I think that it is enough for me to have time and then for the Minister who has covered a large part of it. In summary, I will make a few comments. Invoice to the law of Cyprus, the law of Cyprus does not exist. You know that. Invoke a law and look at it, which has not been passed in the Parliament of Cyprus. So ask Cyprus. Patient's monthly lawsuit how much he pays her? So to get to know each other here. And in Greece of the crisis of recent years, tell me which patients may have a right to their health with what Cypriot patients are paying for their monthly treatment. Ask this once the law is passed on to Cyprus. I come to some comments by Mr Kefaliannis that there is a framework for patients and others. We made the frame. But in order to come and claim that there is a framework - and I am not only addressing the Civic Opposition but also the JRC - they have access to it, it proves that, in fact, you are not interested in seeing whether patients have been able to access the medicine through existing legislation. And we've spotted the problem, and we're saying it. Although we have brought in a framework, we have not yet given this possibility. On July 9, 11, 2016 - somewhere there it must have been - it was Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis' visit to Israel in the presence of Mr. Kefaliannis, Parliamentary Representative. He visited the startups - Mr. Kefaliannis mentioned it - and made the following statement: To take courses of entrepreneurship and innovation from Israel. There were businesses involved in medicine. You've been re-examined. No lessons but no lessons! Reformers! I continue with Mr Fotella, who, on 6 March 2015, was in favour of a question that he and Mr Psarios and Mr Danellis then signed on the river with Mr Psarianos and Mr Danellis - I do not mention the rest of them because they are no longer parliamentarians - who were in favour of the KYA not coming for the cloning cannabis. For “works with foams” he had said and it is a very bad expression. Then he did, because he was referring to another audience. Change of views goes with the public. I repeat a small phrase from my first position at the first meeting of the committees. Little piece. ‘Agreed chasikles, teeces houses, antisocial-to-criminal persons, classic stereotypes’. This is the stigma that each cannabis user carries. Now place a patient, a cancer patient, a seropositive, someone with multiple sclerosis. We said then that after so much constructive discussion - because our own effort was with the Minister and mine - to call them chaskelets, it means that you really believe that. In relation to the JRC, all I can say is that we live in capitalism. In that other society that you want to bring us socialism from the last century, you'll rid the factories, so I'm not afraid of you. They'll be state-owned. Two pages of reading you moved it. But you hadn't read it. The exclusive purpose is to procure the State monopoly, exceptionally, either for medical purposes or for export purposes. For the export you mentioned how they will do it, it is what the importing country predicts. We cannot define why they will be introduced. They'll be exported as pharmaceutical materials anyway. The Minister spoke of the police, I'm not talking about. Risk for illegal trafficking through units that they will produce more and extract it illegally, etc. Have you realised the size of these investments? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes from my first talk. You have realised the terrible goodwill that the product gains after processing and you think they are foolish and risk their investment, because the conditions that you have read on the two pages for the lifting of the licence are too hard, to risk being foolish to invest, knowing that the goodwill of the processed product is much greater than to do this illegal act. I guess they're the idiots who say that in here. You referred to churches, hospitals, schools, etc. Here is the political issue we have, your darkness, the stereotype you have built and put on the agenda of our debate, what you put on the agenda for the permitting of the homes of tolerance, if it can be near to a church, hospitals or school. This has been built for so many years in connection with the use of cannabis and you do not want to admit it. You twist a reality and it's all covered up. Say it straight. Mr. Voridis smacked it. Some other colleagues also questioned the therapeutic use. Say it straight! I'm ending up with two or three things. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. His logic of 'believed and unresearched' does not concern us. All of us, including those who react to the bill, claiming that there is no proper research and that clinical studies, are research, to see if everything we say is true. Information to the scientific community. Of course it needs to be made aware, and this is a very serious job that the scientific community must have. This is where we all have to work together very hard. I'm closing up, saying this. Drug-drug or drug-narcotic, its effect as a drug, being a drug and a drug, is related to the dosage defined by the physician, thus its effects. Our concern must be the patient's access to the medicine. That's why we're here. Now whether or not the fellow Members who vote against this bill, calling them "hascillars" patients, have their consciences quietly, will judge it along the way. Here we are, I'll see you. He's still busy. Some of them have shown availability and I call on others to help in this thing that is built in this country. So here we will be and we will see it, but we will be the government, gentlemen of the Officerial Response. Because with what you do, you will never see the possibility of ruling for many years. And when you come, if you come at some point, you will have found that the state's evolution in a modern state, unreturned to you, will not give you that possibility again, to rotate the minds of the world, to deprive the doctors' patron of the possibility of treating patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Palley. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 15th Elementary School of Katerini. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u388	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u389	I would like to table a technical improvement at the last minute. This is a very small change in formalities. It has no essential content, but it was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor. I'm putting four minutes on you, and you're handling it, respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. I wouldn't talk, but it was caused by what my colleague said by SYRIZA. The truth is that this morning it seems to me that we have been in different rooms. The SYRIZA ministers and fellow SYRIZA Members obviously understood nothing we are discussing here. They did not understand that, apart from their ally in the House - which, perhaps, in other words, they are holding, that is, the party of the Independent Greeks was forced and said 'yes' in this bill - you were essentially on your own. Even the PASOK that spoke up below was close to our line, that yes, it is very imperfect, very unclear, the bill, but they vote on it - for their own reasons, which we accept - to become a first start. You didn't understand that at all that you were and you were completely on your own. And on your own, you're in this society. We, as a New Democracy, as a power of responsibility, will repeat it once again, come from the first meeting which took place and raised reservations precisely because we thought you would bring a clear framework. You didn't. I do not come back to say the same thing again. They have been said here dozens of Members and you have not answered any of them. Once again, we repeat that we are in favour of using cannabis for pharmaceutical reasons. This bill says nothing about it. It speaks only of cultivation and production. And don't lie to the Greek people. It speaks only of cultivation and production. Of course, let us make it clear that you are putting all this in a context trying to tell farmers that they will suddenly open up thousands of jobs. You don't explain to them how hard it is to do this and what investment it takes. But you want to go to the province and tell them that if they get the chance, they'll win this investment. And can I tell you something else? No matter how well we are, no matter how much we want to believe you, the truth is that we have no confidence in you, precisely because in all matters, whether they are matters of health, education or national issues, you sell everything. That is precisely because we don't trust you, so we told you to bring in a framework. The frame didn't bring it. We live in what the Minister says. Let us hope that the intentions of both Ministers are as they say, that is to say, for once that we are wrong and you are telling the truth. You know, however, the prime minister's office first, Mr. Karanika, seems to show that others are in your mind. And you know we're here. And because in a year from now you won't be in your seat, know that we won't allow our homeland, Greece to become an endless plantation of chassis farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Vlassi. Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u393	First of all, we have heard a lot of exaggerations today. The last one was only heard a few seconds ago. I am really sorry about the climate, about hysteria, which is both hypocritical and essentially a pretext. I wanted to start my speech together. We all agree, with the exception of Lacetemones, that the use of indian cannabis as a medicine is imperative. I will keep it, because at the end of the day we must keep the positive and what we consent to if we are to take things a step further. So I'll stay there. We've heard a lot of exaggerations. I was the first to point out the weaknesses of the bill and that the problems are great. It shouldn't be like that. But when we talk about patients' rights, about social rights and individual freedoms, I think that his pretexts and business to find it saves us and good points to grow them and make them tragic to make opposition, it is something that we need to overcome. The current government has consistently done so until it becomes government and sometimes in misguided ways. We are now, unfortunately, seeing it from the Civic Opposition at times. But with this thing, we have to get it over with. So, since we agree that the use of Indian cannabis as a medicine must go ahead, we will do well, from now on, to leave the excesses and see how we can contribute to the joint ministerial decisions to be followed and the presidential decrees - which should be ready, which should be processed - which is to be drawn up. I believe - and I said this in the morning - that this debate must be open. We have to look the citizens in the eyes. When we think that certain things need to be changed for the good of society, we have to say it. Hide behind our finger, counting on how many votes we will lose from it and how many votes we will win from the other, I think we do not offer anything either in our country or in our role. I have - and I say again - the full agreement on the necessity of cannabis medication and all the rest of it must be re-examined and, above all, our attitude and our political practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, a very interesting debate has taken place with very important - I would say - a scientific component. However, some very basic conclusions have been drawn, which are of interest to the Greek people. It is surprising - but this is how it is - that the only party or, more precisely, a coalition of parties that are in favour of decriminating the use of cannabis is the Change Movement, Democratic Compact, PASOK, Potami. It is not SYRIZA and it is indeed an interesting development. The Greek people must know that. I shall briefly refer to two issues relating to industrial cannabis, the so-called 'hemp'. A very serious scientific inaccuracy was said by the river's special speaker. He said the content of the industrial hemp in D9 tetrahydrocannabinol is zero. That's wrong, it's wrong. It's up to 0.3%. On the other hand, SYRIZA MEP, Mr Balaurras, said that a new limit should be set for the industrial cannabis, which is 0.8%. Mr Balaur is not aware of the dangers involved. With our intervention Mr Kontonis has made such an amendment. What for? Water, for example, from the cannabis industrial cannabis that can be repackaged by heating D9 tetrahydrocannabinoic acid is converted to 70% tetrahydrocannabinol. Because of this children were poisoned in the United States, when some of the States dared to raise the limit on industrial cannabis. An irresistible scientific given should be made clear. I am speaking to the Minister of Xanthos, who is a doctor, and to him I address: there is no scientific study, Minister, of a random, controlled study showing that hemp has a beneficial effect on any disease. This is completely unscientific and you specifically referred to a strong therapeutic indication. To confirm what I am saying, you may not have read the relevant text of the World Health Organisation. Detailed statistics shall be reported. In the case of multiple sclerosis, it is stated that the use of tetrahydrocannabinol has a negative effect on the correct attitude and balance of the sufferer, i.e. not only there is no positive, but it also has negative effects. The specific text of the World Health Organisation is based on a huge study carried out by the United States Neurology Academy, which covers the years 1948 to 2013. There are thirty-four studies, eight of which are class 1, or very reliable, and show that there is absolutely no scientific certainty of cannabis positive action in any disease, and most importantly if we are talking about neurological diseases, such as Huntington's disease or Tourette's syndrome or epilepsy or cervical stiffness. There is no positive effect at all. I shall read from page twenty-six of the relevant World Health Organisation reference a very interesting village. It therefore refers to the final conclusion: "The cannabis movement as a medicine, which has a positive effect on pain, epilepsy, appetite, and many others with a multitude of neurological and metabolic diseases, is motivated by multiple factors. These include the inefficiency of medicines for some serious diseases - indeed there is no medicine that cures multiple sclerosis - and self-interests." That's what the World Health Organisation says. So don't talk to us about scientific committees. You have appointed them and have finally reached the conclusion you want either you Mr Caranikas or both. Therefore, the most controversial effect of cannabis on certain diseases is the therapeutic effect of cannabis. However, its side effects are certain in terms of both toxination and dependence. Approximately 7% to 10% of people will become dependent, although they are chronic and dependent on cannabis. In fact, we must not forget the psychotic assistance which may appear, but also the suicidal idea, Minister. These are scientifically proven. It is interesting to refer to the turnaround it has shown - because it has actually turned around - New Democracy in its view. As two Members have said, as you say in SYRIZA, this shift is due to the position taken by the Golden Dawn. We have no reason to concede. That's probably right. Mr President, this draft law is a matter for you together. But it is double the burden of the Minister of Health, who is also a doctor. I fear that you will create a new generation of dependent people, who are both chronic and dependent on cannabis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. The argument on the part of the government, as it concludes and is formulated by the relevant Minister, and poor is also annoying and wicked at the same time. Why? Why are you trying to substantiate a draft law that is on order of business groups in this sector, putting patients ahead of themselves. I mean, you are literally playing with the pain of patients. Do you know who your wickedness is? You and the various rabbits today and the past few days have tried to identify the position of the JRC on these issues, which have been expressed for many years and on the drugs issues, hard, soft, etc., but also on the specific draft law, positions which are also formulated at first and second readings and today in plenary - yet you are making the fools, as if you were not listening to what the JRC says - and you tried to identify us with New Democracy and with the criminal Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u398	You've gone too far!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u399	I would ask you this: does the New Democracy disagree with business in this hemp industry? Let's see the finest letters. Because the individual may disagree or be able to change the line New Democracy, probably because it accepts the pressures of its base or because you take the bite from the mouth, but on the main issue, on the question at issue, which is that the business groups, who will trade the pains of patients and not just in the course of the new generation, are going to say nothing and raise a tiresome confrontation, etc. And the criminal Golden Dawn, which also in the fine letter you don't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u400	Just get a little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u401	Get him!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u402	Sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u403	Tell him to watch out, they're not expressions!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u404	...he said very specifically that the investments that will be made, why, he says, should foreign businessmen be beaten and not Greek businessmen? So, in this case, in substance, in the present case, you all agree that, under conditions of less or more, this sector should be given to the business groups. So that's the reality. Attention, Minister, the JRC did not trigger the debate on the decriminalisation of cannabis, no. Take it from the top. From the first reading in committee, at the hearing of the bodies, all the "funners" have come out, running to applaud and reward their positions here. You yourself applauded them here, from the former Prime Minister to various members of the parties who have advocated the decriminalisation of the cannabis of its own use. Didn't you applaud them? In fact, today, Mr. Apostle of Steps said that very serious speeches were heard from the specific parties that spoke about the issues of cannabis decriminalisation. So who opened these? The JRC? And it's the JRC that has the horrific partners? Is your policy progressive and is it conservative of the Communist Party of Greece? Of course not. We are very clear that, of course, science, technology, clinical operations, can also use, show what cannabis substances can be used to alleviate the suffering of patients, but under very specific conditions and, above all, by the state monopoly. We told you: 'Behold Rhodes, behold and fuck.' State monopoly. We do not agree, because you have put us in a dilemma: in a state monopoly or in business groups? We are asking for a overthrow of this socio-economic system. Because with other power, in another society, with socialised means of production, without business, all these substances, the medicine in general, can be exploited unnecessarily for the benefit of people's needs. However, in capitalism, whether it is the state, the collective capitalist or the business groups, in alpha or beta way, sooner or later, one will help one another, with one main objective of the profitability of big capital. That's the reality and let's leave all the rest. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, some here have painted the draft law 'the result of a social demand'. No, it's a request from business groups. It's done on their order. That is why you refer everything to the joint ministerial decisions. Because you will stand sous the next day to their suggestions based on the master planns that will be presented to you. It will be those companies that are likely today making the production of opiate and poppy in Afghanistan. Probably, I say, are these companies too. In any case, all this will prove to be the case. That's what I had to tell you. Thank you very much. I would say about the amendments, if I may, that is very briefly. In Amendment No 1503 and in Amendment No 113, relating to an amendment to a previous EACH law, we will vote'residents'. This is a provision contained in the fourth Memorandum and we believe that the possible savings due to centralised procurement can have a positive impact on the fulfilment of the budgetary objectives. However, this does not mean upgrading health services to the people. Patients will continue to pay directly and indirectly and to cope with shortcomings in staffing, machinery and materials. In Amendment No 1504 and in Amendment No 114- is a pluralism - Article 1 we are voting against because it regulates so-called non-interventional studies involving medicines already administered to patients. This amendment regulates the status of studies in the direction of strengthening the involvement of entrepreneurs. That is why we are voting against. We are voting in favour of Article 2. We are voting against Article 3 because it is a favourable regulation for business groups, with regard to their obligation to reimburse sums they owe due to the application of the rebate. In Article 4 we are voting 'at present'. We believe that the implementation of so-called intangible prescriptions and referrals does not alter the increased payments of patients to medicines, cuts and increased payments to tests. If this pluralism is voted on in a single way and not in an article, we will vote against it. Otherwise, I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much Mr. Synergy. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u406	I don't like overreacting. I am the one who gave credit to the new Republic's rapporteur on the first day. And I was very tough. But, from then on, I have seen a shift and an exaggeration that I can't even repeat. He doesn't express me. I think it's wrong. I would like soon to say again that what we are doing is a first step in a difficult and huge effort and in an environment not particularly appropriate. That is why I am once again speaking again - and I believe that my words have taken a place - that what we are going to do must be done very carefully. We cannot throw into the mouth of illegal traffickers who need this medicine. I don't have to say that for once. As morphine, a very hard drug never spread - I have been prescribing it for thirty years when we have to - I think we have the opportunity to do the same for cannabis. I really believe that. Here, we are. But that is a step that needs to be taken. Those of us who at least have listened to the institutions and have no confidence in our minds will have to take this into account. It is really a terrible medicine for some stories, in fact, of the last type, such as multiple sclerosis. Let us not forget that repression strengthens. This is a fact. Prohibition - I will say, it is not my argument, I steal it - has never brought any effect. We know that liquor can cause blindness. Also, I'm going to say that the cigarette is responsible for eighteen cancers. And yet, he's on his way out. I mean, it's up to us, because we have a sensitive reality here in our country, in Greece. I will say again - and I am closing with this - that within at least my mind - I may also make a mistake, throw my opinion away - it is not for investment and entrepreneurship. In my opinion, it must be treated as a medicine that some people need. And as a state, we have to ensure this in a legitimate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Last of the rapporteurs and special speakers Mr Psarianos will answer. The meeting will be concluded by Mr. Apostleu. Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard what they say: "The minds are like parachutes. They function when they are open.’ The open minds in the civilized world are in the direction of unprohibiting, in the direction of bans and repression. It's on the way to the decriminalisation of the use of substances. Some, from the edges of the Chambers, have accused us of being 'Potami', for example, of being in favour of anti-prohibition policy and of legalising, of decriminating the use of substances. It's not sloppy. We are also in favour of the decriminalisation of the use of substances. It's over and out. I've said it ten times. Patent is the ban, which destroyed America's youth and society by its application, and the lifting thereof corrected all the nonsense that had been done: mafia, Al Capone, persecution, smuggling and all this mafia-like system. The same patent is in the drug ban system. But that is not what we are talking about here today. We are talking about drugs, which already exist in pharmacy. There are imported cannabis treatment opiates and other substances, which are much more drastic drugs than tetrahydrocannabinol with direct biological dependence on the organism. These are available in the pharmacopoeia imported. We have a historic opportunity to restore a wrong policy and implement cultivation, decolonisation, release the cultivation of medicinal cannabis and treatment for preparations of all types of disease and patients. That is what we are talking about, and that is what we are voting on. I would like to say again that the direction of the ban is completely wrong and produces exactly the opposite results from the anticipated results. When a user is forced to resort to smuggling, square plaza, illegal trafficking to take off his dose, drug or substance and be a user, he must find twenty, thirty, forty people to put his dose on the trick. If you are lawfully and freely able to take the medicine prescribed by the pharmacy, you will end the mad trade and the mafia. An American intellectual and then many senators and democratic MPs in America - I do not remember the first person who said it - said that those who are in favour of banning policy, or are foolish and ideological, or who serve smuggling interests and who are drug dealers. The totalitarian regimes in the junta and where there is a harder banning policy, there the profits are huge. There are many billions worldwide and the penalties are exterminating, much larger than those demanding the ends of the House, of whatever Parliament. If they catch you with a tiny amount in Thailand, Colombia, Bolivia, you'll be executed. Of course, you can move two hundred tons of treated cocaine because you have and you are oiling lawyers, judges, doctors, senators, parliamentarians, governments, etc. This trick is too old. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Cannabis was pretentiously banned by psychotropic activity and substance of tetrahydrocannabinol in hemp species with a high percentage. I didn't say the kick is zero, I said it was almost zero. In other words, you can smoke three plants "and don't understand Christ". And because we need to know what we're talking about, we need to have seen what everyone does and what happens. And they're some who speak irrelevantly, like they're talking about theocratic provisions, i.e. with office and gospel chips. This story has to end. Here in Greece we have to end it now if we want to be a serious European democracy, and we do not want to be Colombia, Thailand, and I do not know whether I are insulting some countries. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that we will vote on the bill, but we will not vote on the amendments, because from the outset we have said that we do not vote in irrelevant bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr. Psariano. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, may I have the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u411	You have the floor before the Minister, because the Minister must be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u412	Is there such a procedure, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u413	He has a right to a second. He is a parliamentary representative and can be seconded. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Minister, for the concession. The system's five-fashioned, the Communist Party of Greece, the long and useful hand of the system once again worked as an evacuation valve. The designations that have been heard by their special speaker are multiplier returning. But we are impressed by the attitude of the Bureau of Parliament, which you have not brought him back to order, Mr President, even though we have been provoked twice. If there are criminals in this Chamber, let some people look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes. I hope they're in the box for the answers you give.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u416	I will be brief, Mr President. However, may my colleague of the Communist Party of Greece allow me to say that when our main aim is to vote for a bill, which concerns the specific use of the finished products of the medicinal cannabis, for us the approach is that those who say 'yes' to this proposal will certainly applaud them and reward them. From there on, if people or parties on other issues, which are not issues related to the bill, have a different viewpoint, that is their point of view. So I really didn't expect a party that has a story like that. I think you understand. And now I would particularly like to address those of my dear colleagues who have come to see the release of cannabis behind this regulation. Honestly, do you agree with the production process to end up with these products? You agree. Please tell me what these weak points of this production process you have found justifying your opinion. So I say to you clearly: firstly, that we have a single authorisation - a single licence - which starts from the time the seed, the propagating material, comes out and ends up with a medicinal product. From there on, because they have sincerely heard 'what quantities', 'how many licences', one, the other, I have not understood: do you want technical approaches? Because I believe that every party and every place has the possibility of being able to approach technically with its advisers. We shall start then: the car which unloads the seed, the propagating material, is gone, it is directly into some such construction - it is a greenhouse and I will present it in the Minutes - where at least here in the production process there is no one, but there is no possibility of escaping something. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Let's see what production is coming out, 'cause some numbers sound crazy. I tell you that a acre - and I stress it - of this kind will get us eight hundred pounds of material, which will go to the next unit, processing, to proceed with further processing, so that we can reach the final product. You will tell me: What are the needs of the country and how will you calculate the operation of this unit, whether it is or not it is viable? Listen to me. Firstly, it is an issue on which other countries too - because they are currently in the process of liberalising the use of cannabis medicine - we have no evidence, because, in fact, so far, there can be evidence of the use of cannabis medicinal products when they could not pass through the legal procedure. So we're at the beginning. And it's not just us, it's other countries. The question is, in this case, what will eventually come out of this story. There will be a medicinal product, which at least in the part concerning internal movement - we said is the state monopoly, it is the Ministry of Health, it is all - that will go through such a process to end up with patients. That is precisely what we are talking about, not to read it, and we are wasting time. Also, with regard to what it is to go abroad, it is stated that with specific permits, from specific customs to the recipient, who will take it. Everything's controlled. So where do you find that through this process something will we get lost? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me tell you this, to understand: is it possible for an investor who has so much money to risk a closure of EUR 5 000 and a unit of EUR 10 000? I have not heard anyone refer to the provision which says that the first inspection to be found is to suspend the authorisation of this plant. Since, of course, there was concern whether or not the police could respond, I would point out that at the hearing of bodies the representative spoke of very strict criteria. And of course the guard - woe and woe! - it's a company case. Just, whenever the control mechanisms not only want the police, but also the rest of them, especially the ministries involved, at any time control this unit. Honestly, I don't understand you. Tell me where the weakness exists. We know - I told you before - that it is still a start. There are too many issues to deal with. Ministerial decisions will also be adopted which will start to specificize issues arising from the process, such as, for example, issues relating to whether or not the investigation is involved in this process. The public research centres, universities, of course, will find the way to participate in this process later, when we have a production of propagating material, seeds, etc. which can be used for the following period. But we'll see about that. That is why you see that, in order not to leave any room at all, we have reached a point to say that nothing can come out of these units at all. So why have you these days set up a whole set of scenes that we are driving to liberate the use of cannabis? I do not want to say any more because it is also a matter of time. But be sure that both through ministerial decisions and through operation we will have good results. And don't listen to numbers, especially in terms of quantities. You realize that with the production of eight hundred pounds of the acre, huge areas and quantities are needed. Of course I hope there will be investors coming to this process. We always think that the rural area will not only benefit, but will also be involved in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Minister. One clarification: it was not said by Mr Syntagakis 'criminal organisation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u418	Twice! Look at the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u419	I looked at the minutes. "You identify us with the criminal Golden Dawn." However, the expression is not correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u420	It's an attack!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u421	Let me finish. It will be deleted from the Minutes from both the specific expression and your "five phalanga" to keep a level at the end of the whole meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, when you are about to comment on them and bring them back to order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u423	You won't tell me right now. I understand that this is a very difficult process. Let this end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u424	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u425	That's right, Mr. Synchronous. You don't have the floor right now. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u426	Will you tell me what the representative of the Communist Party should say? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u427	I'll tell what to delete. I have the right to delete some expression if I think it should not be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u428	Can I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u429	What for? What do you mean? Mr. Synthyakis, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u430	Will you give me the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u431	Why on staff? Was there some kind of excitement to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u432	Excuse me, please contact me. You have your own microphone open and you don't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u433	I referred to something you said, Mr. Syndrome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u434	You're not giving me the floor while you have to give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u435	I do not have to give you the floor, because there was no surrogate reference to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u436	Open up, please, the microphone. Otherwise, I'll scream as loud as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u437	Are you yelling to be afraid of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u438	You had the sensitivity and you gave the floor to the criminal Golden Dawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u439	That's what you said, and I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u440	...and now you don't have the sensitivity, addressing me, to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u441	I said that the expressions should be deleted so far as the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u442	You're not going to erase anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u443	No, they'll be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u444	It is your issue, but we, of course, term as a crime at Golden Dawn. I don't understand why you guys are talking on behalf of the JRC!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u445	You have every right to do so, but not within Parliament. You can go out on Peristeri or out on the channels and make any...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u446	There are legal consequences...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u450	Don't I deserve the floor? Do I deserve the floor, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u451	Mr Colleagues, you are not entitled to the floor right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u452	Don't I deserve the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u453	You are not entitled to the floor at this time. The meeting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u454	Don't I have the right to speak on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u455	On a personal note, Mr. Synonymous?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u456	You also addressed, but you also...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u457	Did someone devour you, Mr. Synergy? What's he gonna say I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u458	Aren't you going to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u459	May I give you the floor for what? Tell me what you want to talk about. Here, you have the floor for thirty seconds, tell me why you want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u460	Because we're having a conversation with my microphone closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u461	Your microphone has been opened, speak up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u462	You are addressing me and the whole House from a position of power. It's a misuse of what you're doing as president.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u463	It's not abuse. It's abuse that you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u464	Let me tell you. We have no disquiet at all about calling Golden Dawn as a criminal organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u465	But you're not going to do it in here, Mr. Synergy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u466	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u467	Because here they don't fit such expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u468	Will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u469	Of course, when I think that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u470	Are you the advocate of the Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u471	I'm not the advocate of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u472	That's what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u473	No, I'm not advocating Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u474	And you're judged by what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u475	You're the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u476	Of course, I can be judged by what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u477	You're judging by what you say to the Greek people, not just the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u478	I judge the expressions. If I consider it inappropriate to have an expression...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u479	Allow me, on the occasion of discussing the draft law and because the Government and its various peoples have attempted to identify the Communist Party of Greece with the criminal Golden Dawn and the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u480	Do you continue to use...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u481	...we have made it clear, therefore, that they do not match us with their evils, because on the substance of the case and on the grounds that the criminal activity in cannabis production is in line with the Golden Dawn and the New Democracy with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL and not the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u482	Have you finished, Mr. Synchronous? Good. Please don't give us any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u483	Be serious, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u484	Please, Mr Aivatidis, let us finish the whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u485	He lost his temper, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u486	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with the vote, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 1 March 2018: Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned: 'Provisions on the production of finished medicinal products for Cannabis and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u495	The Health Ministry's draft law therefore: "Provisions for the Production of Final Products of Cannabis Pharmaceuticals and Other Provisions" were accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u504	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u513	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1503 and a specialist of 113 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u522	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1503 and a special 113 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted by a general number of 1504 and a specialist of 114 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u531	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1504 and a special 114 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u540	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Health Ministry's draft law therefore: "Provisions for the Production of Final Products of Cannabis Pharmaceuticals and Other Provisions" were accepted in principle and in articles. We shall now proceed to the vote of the bill and to the whole of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u549	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Provisions on the Production of Final Products of Cannabis Pharmaceuticals and Other Provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u551	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-01-S1-commons.u552	With the consent of the House at 19.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 2, 2018 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
