ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continuing discussion on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’. We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Athanasios Athanasios has the floor from the SYRIZA parliamentary group. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. According to an earlier French inspection survey, the Greek province had the lowest degree of provinciality. "The Greeks work hard in the field to send his child to study agriculture in Montpellier, finances in London, journalism in Wolverhampton," said the inspection - I remember it - which was at "L'EXPRESS". Yesterday, however, at least some New Democracy Members tried to deny this. They tried to vote, displaying an indiscriminate provincialism. The Greek province is beautiful, but provincialism is ugly. He's dangerous too, because he doesn't let you see beyond your village. See what? Something Pierre Moscovisi implied, but he didn't find any understanding. This budget is national. However, it is not only a Greek event. If some Brussels sources are valid, then we can say that this budget is, above all, a European fact. He ambitions to be a precedent, quasi-tried one, a kind of model for other countries, of course not in relation to data such as his surplus - not all are as indebted as we - but as far as his headlines are concerned. And what's his headline, his main line? The mediation, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it applies firstly, tall, it applies restrained, but it finally applies this principle, the mediation. Where's the mediation? I appeal to Moscovisi again. Note the 'and' clutch link. The Commissioner considers this budget to be "a proof that you can have reforms at the same time, which lead you to sustainable public finances and have a social programme and return to growth. You can, at the same time, create jobs and reduce inequality." This is what George Huliarakis described as the road between, "the road between", that is, the road between budgetary equilibrium and expansion. If you now see a broad concept of this road, this directional line, this kind of mediation applied proportionally, in the case of France and in the case of Italy, some will be surprised. Your recipe, gentlemen of the European People's Party's Party Officer, has broken up Europe. SYRIZA - Moscovisi recipe can save her. Who exactly will be surprised? Those in their passion for all sacrifices of return to authority decided not to count their words anymore. Its economy and budgets are judged on many levels, they are judged when they reach the markets, they are judged and when they end up in your body. In a budget there may be codes - stabbing and codes - suffocating drugs. Scientific analysis is also of great importance here, but not when it despises the simple, everyday man. When we say science, we mean a circle of contradictions, we don't mean every scientist. We do not just mean the possession of diplomas - and of many degrees - because, as it says in the 'MERE CHRISTIANITY', a great intellectual, C.S. Lewis: "There is no opposition to saying "John is an idiot and a university doctor." In my eyes, the eyes of a persistent amateur - remember John, who I mentioned before, and do not despise the persistent amateurs - this budget also shows three features: Firstly, it is sealed by that seal which has not been used so strongly for eight years: the seal of social sensitivity. Is social sensitivity bad? It's not moral. Rapid, raw, cold, scientifically ask: Does social sensitivity harm the current Greek economy? Answer: 'Social measures will contribute to the growth of GDP'. Who said that? He, the non-extremely loved one in New Democracy, Mr. Moscovisi. Do you think Mr. Moscovici counts without being seen in Berlin? Nein, leider nicht. Did you hear what the man said? 'Social measures will contribute to the growth of GDP.' What further would you have sent him if he had not withdrawn his candidacy from the European elections, Mr Mitarakis? Who are you, with the Greek or the lion? Look out! The lion votes, but it votes for the one who will devour him. Secondly, this budget has provided for what markets and inevitable markets will say. This states a great deal that this government is a realist government. In a country that has just overcrowded emotion and terrifying deficit of realism, this is a blessing. Thirdly, this budget is not a budget of happiness or of gold spoon. With respect to the 4.3 million VAT owed to the public, with respect to the lesser, considerably less, but still unacceptably many of our unemployed, with respect to the highly indebted households, we must state that the first major battles have been won and that, under certain conditions, they will be won and the remaining ones. Others choose to speak creatively and other destructively. They creatively speak of those who care for the state to pay half of the youth's insurance contributions up to 25 years old. Creatively, those who are considering whether the Cypriot "ESTIA" programme, which provides for payment by the state of 1/3 of the monthly instalment of housing loans, can also be implemented in Greece. Creatively, those who try to include as many as possible in twenty doses speak. Destroyingly speaks of those who see it all black, thus mourning the exit of their homeland from the Financial Adjustment Programme. They are disastrously speaking to those who even blame their fellow citizens in the European People's Party for concluding unholy alliances. You're very displeased. You are dissatisfied with the Moscovisi statements, the Junger declarations, the Solts statements, the Piat statements. You're even dissatisfied with Wilbur Ross' announcements about withdrawing his participation from a shipping company. When will you realize that you're isolated? What is hurting is that SYRIZA can, SYRIZA succeeds and that this is recognised internationally. This message you're trying to blur. I wish you "good luck" in your polling efforts. That's it. The Greek people understand who are right to describe the reality and who can do something radically to improve it. The people are judging. In democracies too, and the people have a responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Alliance. Immediately after that is Mr. Toskas, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport will take the floor, Mr. Vasiliadis. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with an observation that the seats of this House are empty. However, since the President of this House is here, I think he is neglecting any such remarks. We have heard too much over the last few days about the 2019 budget. The glass is neither half empty nor half full. We need to see which glass we choose every time to identify. It is the last budget for this government. It is also the budget that seeks to serve the illusion of the country's exit from the memoranda and freedom of management, supposedly, of a available financial space. It is a budgetary memorandum because it follows the commitments in the memorandum. He is also anti-developmental, he is socially unfair in many of his aspects and is taxly exterminated. Its main characteristics, ladies and gentlemen, are the redistribution of poverty and the cancellation of any prospect of serious growth and production of new wealth. Most of the citizens - to see the real glass - face a wide range of unemployment. The unemployed today are a million, according to official figures. At the same time, think that three hundred to five hundred thousand are the ones who are abroad. For citizens, therefore, there is nothing hopeful about it, and contrary to the basic choices of the government it is the poorening of the many and the economic downfall of the middle class. The 2019 draft budget continues a centralised policy, a tax adjustment to achieve the objective of a primary surplus of 3.6% of GDP, namely EUR 6.9 billion. We once again express our absolute opposition to the persistent pursuit of higher commitments from the country of primary surpluses, which obviously entails excessive austerity, which negatively affects growth, but also negatively affects the lives of citizens through overtaxation. As I have often said, if this money were left, the surplus that the State takes from the Greek taxpayer's pocket, everyone would know what to do better. The government's majority seeks the systematic tax bleeding of citizens. Although Greece is at the bottom of the euro area -12% compared to investment in both the public and private sectors - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is making sure that it confirms the obsession with the harsh austerity and is now turning this greedy reality into a budgetary regime in recent years. Thus, per capita consumption in Greece from 79% of the Community term in 2015 fell to 77% in 2016, to 75% in 2017, highlighting the limited potential for the disposal of income beyond what is strictly necessary. This is the reality of poverty. The government with its impoverished policy has made the world weaker than the crisis had made him poor. The expenditure cuts mainly result from new cuts for 2019 related to the Public Investment Programme, which is reduced by EUR 550 million over the medium term, in a systematic effort to get out the figures that serve the government's redistribution choices of poverty. I have the honestly wonder how the government understands and how it means to growth. With a reduction in public investment? By scissorsing investment funds? If it really has such ideas, I think even this 2% atrocious growth envisaged by the European Commission for next year is over before it begins. Continuous pursuit of primary surpluses above agreed levels of 3.5% of GDP will compress the private sector, businesses and households. This is how poverty is produced. And that's how poverty grows and deepens. The government with arrogance and arrogantness seems to ignore it or, worse today, adopt it. Further reduced by 523m euros will be in 2019 and the provision of public services to workers, with what this means for the purchasing power of the medium-sized class. In particular, they will amount to EUR 12.9 billion from EUR 13.5 billion in 2018. The budget once again reflects the philosophy adopted by the government at the level of pensions, which, despite maintaining the personal difference, continues to cut the pensions of young pensioners, supplementary pensions, CSR, widow's pensions. In 2019, a total of EUR 275 million is budgeted less than 2018. This is how the poverty of retired people is produced. Unrighteousness against the weak is therefore reflected in the so-called social memorial budget. In the 2019 plan compared to 2018, in addition to the reduction in pension expenditure, we find that the pharmacological expenditure, the cost of the EEAS sickness benefits and the OAED unemployment benefits are sang by 470 million compared with last year. At the level of financing and trust in the economy, the banking system today counts even 30 billion less deposits of households and businesses since the end of 2014, amounts that, apart from the valuable source for financing investment through the banking system, are also the most important indicator of the confidence of citizens and markets in the prospects of the Greek economy. In reverse, VAT revenues, income taxes on natural persons, are expected to be increased. Receipts from the personal income tax amount to EUR 11,1 billion since 10,9 in 2018. And here the increase comes out of income, at the same time as the coordinator of the Budget Office states that Greece is a champion in taxation if increases are calculated in 2016, in 2017, in VAT, excise duty. At the same time, the economy continues on the downhill path of unorthodox search for budgetary revenue. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I won't need a minute, Mr President. Your tolerance, please. The damage that the country has suffered over the last four years of your government is huge. Justice, education, health, social welfare have a negative impact on this budget. The sizes confirm the country's stay in a state of recession, uncertainty, continuous cuts in the citizens' available incomes. This is how poverty is produced. This is an economically inefficient, socially unfair budget. Citizens will continue to receive wage cuts and pensions and tax raids. It seems that all of this eventually does not bring any benefit to the citizen. By reducing purchasing power and bleeding their incomes, it is obvious that the government ignores the fact that the exit from the crisis passes through structural changes but above all from the production of new wealth from investment, from the stimulation of consumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u6	I'm done, Mr. President. Just a phrase. Today, household debt reaches 65% of GDP, which means over 100 billion euros. The gauging economy, the banks are at risk of being dismantled, and the country cannot come out for borrowing. That is the policy you are following. That is why we are going to vote against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr Toskas from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to make some clarifications. I would like to express my regret and, if you will, my indignation about what the President of the Police Corps said a few days ago. You know I'm counted on my words and I'm careful what I'm saying. But blaming charges, that there are traitors here who did not hesitate to trade in national matters, are beyond the usual classes exchanged in this area. Some in the name of a temporary benefit and influence in some regions to eradicate passions, but with opportunism they overlook that if no solution is found to the Macedonian, there is a risk that in future we will see "Great Albania" and "Great Bulgaria" and at the same time Turkey's influence on our northern borders. And see the instability that exists not only in our region but in Central Europe. Political problems remain unsolved when they disguise themselves in cultural terms, said Gramsey. Why do I support today's draft budget? For the first time after many years, the signs of recovery are visible. This development can be sustainable and fair. We are returning to growth more than 2%, although we have to have high surpluses of 3.5%. We have gained market confidence, we significantly reduce unemployment and we protect the most vulnerable and vulnerable. The insurance system, what the New Democracy wants to break down in favour of private interests, has become sustainable. It became a fund surplus. The country's new production model is based on exports, innovation and modern production methods. The recovery of the country's self-reliance, the development process, the national development plan, the progressive reforms, the development of new conditions for the benefit of the many is the answer to those who predicted that nothing would change at the end of the memoranda. But some questions arise. What does the New Democracy propose and, unfortunately, part of the Central Left in terms of the productive structure of the country, the allocation of expenditure, social expenditure, the distribution of resources? Are the New Democracy choices random or are they copying old recipes of the Thacher era? Why was the name of the Pinochet dictator mentioned by a New Democracy official? Why is there such an obsession of the New Democracy, but also part of the Central Left in choices that create greater repression? Do New Democracy and its faithful followers have obsessed views or are all specific recipes designed to break the backbone of workers and not just economic recipes? What would New Democracy present in an alleged budget, on the basis of its officials' declarations at all times? First, state planning and control would be regarded as a denial of freedom. Secondly, collective goods, water, electricity, education, health, would be considered as a commodity for expropriation or otherwise an obstacle to development. Thirdly, market freedom is the supreme asset and is linked only to individuality and business initiative, without physical commitments and controls. Fourthly, more rights and freedoms would be given to those whose income, free time and security do not need to be guaranteed. Fifthly, the financing of municipalities and regions would be reduced so that they would be forced to impose extra taxes on citizens. Six, there would be extensive privatisation and auctioning of even first homes. Seventhly, access to basic human needs would be determined by the needs of the market and the possibility of paying. Eighthly, there would be rules on increased employment insecurity, lower wages and loss of allowances and work protection. Ninth, all responsibility for prosperity would be transferred to the individual. Tenthly, the state would withdraw from social welfare and from the health, education and social services sectors, which were once fundamental to inspired liberalism, so that more and more parts of the population are exposed to poverty. Eleventh, in such circumstances New Democracy proclaims authoritarianism and repression in the name of law and order, why else would these measures be applied? That would happen and let the New Democracy hide them. The preliminary draft State Budget for 2019 marks the country's reintegration into the international financial system and launches the gradual shift in budgetary policy, from the multiannual adjustment to the rationalised expansion. It aims at strengthening households' available income, supporting sustainable development and addressing targeted years of social protection deficits. Indicative, social interventions, such as the Home Aid Programme, the rental subsidy, the reduction of insurance contributions, youth insurance contributions, the reduction of HPAI, are typical examples of policy under the new data, because in these four years of governance we have come out of the memorandum, the unemployment has been reduced, the social state is built, we have returned to growth, the country has recovered confidence, the insurance has become sustainable, basic economic issues have been regulated. We're not all the same. Not all programs are the same. It is not the budgets of all governments, one-off repetitions of technocratic proposals. In difficult times we show our orientation. We are proposing the social state and development. We are trying to set up households and citizens first of all and the poorest. We cannot fully restore the losses of the memoranda, but we are making a good start and we are class-specific in favour of the weaker classes. We don't hide it. The policy of the New Democracy is not just neoliberal, it is at the extreme end of neoliberalism, where there is obsessive commitment to antagonistic and anti-social natural principles. It was no accident to refer to Pinochet's insurance policy. The first experiments were carried out in the dictatorial Chile of the 1970s. That's where the theorists of Neoliberal Hayek and Friedman went to give directions. The long-standing Greek people are sure to deny such experiments at their place. Poor people are not free. Everywhere social justice has become a clear objective and not a distant ideal. The primary obligation of the state and civil society is to use powers and allocate resources to eliminate poverty and hunger and to provide security of income, security against major risks. These were not Marx's words, but American President Roosevelt's annual message in Congress in 1935. Without society there are no people. Let it be understood well by those who imagined "dats" policies in Greece. We don't promise miracles. We are, however, taking steady steps and certainly in a cross-sectional direction contrary to the neoliberalism of New Democracy and without creating a democratic deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Toska. Mr George Vasiliadis has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the first budget with the non-committee, the first budget planned, decided and implemented exclusively by the Greek structures, exclusively by the Greek Government for the first time after an eight-year period. It is the first budget that we can wisely design on the next day of the country, restore social injustices, leave the working ages behind, building the new path of a new working reality and normality. For the first time, it is a budget that does not take, but gives, with targeted interventions to the most hit by the crisis in social classes. For the first time after eight years in a state budget, we see reductions in the unfair tax on HNPH targeted at the weakest social classes, reductions in insurance contributions for freelance professionals, reductions in business tax, and at the same time subsidies targeted at the most vulnerable groups of the population, a rental subsidy for young people, new fair forms of family benefits, interventions that embrace most of the Greek society. Unemployment is constantly falling, while the economy every quarter shows that we are going through a constant process of crisis. With all this we have managed to win society and keep it up, even with the creation of permanent social protection structures, with the creation of mechanisms for the most vulnerable in society, with the support of public health and education structures, a permanent and solid support, so that we never again live through what we have experienced in the early years of the crisis. We have an insurance system that after the tragic management of decades and the criminal PSI is now public and sustainable, leaving the fans of Pinochet models to their loneliness and without a narrative. In the same context, and with the same objectives, we have moved all these years to the General Secretariat of Sports. We have managed in difficult budgetary years to have continuous increases in transferable expenses, with good management, rationalisation, transparency, targeted actions, but also with vision for the next day we have managed to make national sports facilities viable. The evidence speaks for itself. From EUR 10 million that was funding for 2015, we reach in 2018, the year that leaves us, at EUR 12.5 million and within them, 2 million outstanding debts that together with others had inherited from the dramatic past. We had a 20% increase in these years, within these pressured budgets, and at the same time, as I said again, we have covered all the outstanding debts not only towards the stages, but also to the athletes, the so-called 'prims'. We're talking about those with whom we were all running to take pictures when they came with the medals and made us proud, and then we forget to give them our own contribution, our own part, the recognition of the state through the financial champion. And we have reached the point today, after the last dose of 2.8 million euros that we disbursed last week, not owe any athletes a single euro, so that we can look at them in the eyes and say 'thank them'. At the same time, with targeted interventions throughout the territory through the Public Investment Programme, we are resurrecting abandoned facilities, ladies and gentlemen. These interventions are far and away from the pharaonic logic of the past, as well as from the clienteles of the past that separated the country from Greens and Venetians, creating children and diabetics, regions forgotten and regions full of projects. Two hundred and twenty-three projects throughout this four-year period of EUR 30 million, without including more than EUR 5 million in national sports facilities, to follow European standards - in other words, interventions - by creating new, small, living communities, intervening in schools. And within these interventions we do not count on what they were doing together with the Ministry of Education, the school yards, the Ministry of Island Policy and all the ministries that we are working with, so that we can have the maximisation of performance, the maximisation of resource security, the maximisation of interventions and the population we are touching. In contrast to how you saw and continue to see the state as a spoil, we read yesterday's EPP-Cyclade elections, with one of the two sides, with your leading executive preside over or represent, promise public works to get votes and change the proxy. That's how you've been dealing with the state, and that's what you're doing. The world does not forget it and, thank God, your behaviors make it even clearer every day. In the same context, by recognising and supporting the European sporting project, we have managed from 2015 until today to increase grants to the national federations from EUR 16 million in 2016, which was an Olympic year, to 20 million euros, this year, in 2018, while in 2019, a median, further increase of 10% is foreseen. Acknowledging the great need for support, especially for young athletes, - because we really need more money and wisely and with serious planning, we will reach what is needed - we have established - and in the next few days will be announced - sports scholarships amounting to EUR 4,200 per year for young athletes and athletes up to twenty years who have a great performance and have not found sponsors. At the same time, beyond the repayments of the premiums we have made, we have made progress in restoring injustice with the distinguished athletes and the appointments that have been frozen over the years. For athletes - students, there was provision for their absences, for aiding teaching these children, who otherwise the state would - I say it again - photographs and say great words of pride. This proves pride, with these interventions, helping them to be good students and good athletes. We have established, with these numbers, in this crisis, the swimming lesson in the country's public schools. The children of the Third Elementary Schools of this country, these structures, learn to swim, free of charge, through the actions of the Ministry of Education and the General Secretariat of Sports. And we did all of this - and this is the most important - by managing almost the same budget in previous years, but with a great difference in relation to the past: good management, good management, good management and vision for a Greece worthy of Greeks, while at the same time ensuring workers in the gradual and national federations. In the next few years we have restored chronic injustices of people who have been troubled by a client state, the state you have created. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, following a difficult path, the result of accumulated mismanagement of thirty years, neoliberal obsessions and arrogance, we manage to change page. We regain rights, restore injustices, plan the Greece of tomorrow with social justice, with social cohesion, focusing on people and their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Vulture, from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are asking for proof of the public protest of the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the transaction in exchange for Macedonia. The answer lies in the budgetary debate in which the real situation of the economy is revealed. Since August 21st, the supposedly clean exit, we've lived five krone in the bank stock. The banks' recapitalisation has been depleted. From that day on, the 10-year bond interest rate has been taken away and we are obviously out of the market. We had a fall in deposits in October. A trade deficit was announced almost 40% in September vicious. A 23.2% reduction in investment was announced for the third quarter of this year. The public's overdue debts towards the public went beyond 130 billion. We have imported inflation, negative financing of businesses, economic freedom at the Venezuelan level and entrepreneurship at the Mongolia level. Finally, we have a tax which has increased by four points since 2014 on GDP. Don't all the lenders know about this? Didn't Mr. Moscovisy know who's disgusting? Of course they do. But they applaud you. For what? Do you have an answer? How do they find it all good and good when they know that the surpluses are due to taxation and to the reduction of public investment? Why are lenders so happy? Obviously, because they have taken what they were asking for and did not take from any other Greek government, such as superstition, migration and, of course, the crown gem, Macedonia. The state of the economy and the tolerance of creditors are therefore the first proof of transaction. The second proof is that Europeans are being treated differently. In the Samara government, while admitting that the economy was going well, they found several pretexts to never close any evaluations, when not all the PSA teachers were fired, when the cleaners, when the school wheelchairs, were. These were the commitments. They had to fight to identify Samaras and Mitsotakis, of course, as a responsible minister with the analgesic and to idealize Mr. Tsipras. The Commission's report now says that you have not completed any of the sixteen commitments. So why did they find any problems for us in the commitments and nothing for you? Why then did they say that there is a problem in view of the judicial decisions on the cuts and now that they have the cuts, the rulings of the courts, they say 'bravo'? Why, when we were in the government, did they never finish if the last cleaner and last school wheelman were not leaving? So why were they pushing? Third proof. With the same people - listen - we were negotiating and we know that there was no way for anything to be voted on, one measure, and then voted out. There wouldn't be one in a million. With "SYRIZANEL" that's what's going on. You vote, you achieve something, you vote. Is there a reasonable situation in all this? No explanations. They just take a measure, they keep it in the "kavanja" and when they succeed what they want, they go and the lenders take it off. They put in and take measures with the greatest ease we could imagine. They only put on Samaras. As soon as we complete all the commitments, they appeared with a new list of requirements. It was a constant pressure, which proves they were pushing, because they wanted to achieve something else. And if we were to say a word they didn't like, they'd lift people up on the foot. They let you say anything. Fourth proof is the agreement itself. Name, identity, language, self-determination, sea access, everything the Skopje have always asked for. It is a matter of time before the claim for the establishment of a Macedonian minority in our Macedonia. And there's nothing wrong. The government finds it all good. The lenders take measures and applaud you. Fifth proof is the so-called constitutional changes. You know that the disgraceful agreement you've signed is already being violated. The name 'Macedonia' has been left in an article. The ASNOM Declaration has been maintained, the epitome of altmatism with regard to Macedonia. In Article 49, Mr. Tsipras lies that they carried our own 108 for the protection of the proven Hellenism, because they say they care for the dispersion of the Macedonian people and other communities. What are these other communities and do you accept and say nothing to Mr. Tsipras and supports the opposite? That premiere of Mr. Tsipras for what? Why so insistence, then? Because, obviously, he's made a commitment. And there is a sixth proof that I shall conclude with, Mr President. Under the Government of Samaras, the Skopje protested to Europeans that they have no interlocutor in Athens because the Samaras positions were well known. So Samaras had to leave to find the Skopje interlocutors. And I'm filing the evidence in the Minutes. These are the telegrams from the Press Office of the Greek Association Office in Skopje that had arrived at then, 16 July in my office as a competent Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On July 15, Dubrovnik's meeting was held with an official guest from Mrs Merkel. There Mrs Merkel said that the unresolved problem of Macedonia's name and identity is a burden for everyone, that is, from July 2014, Mrs Merkel was suddenly talking about identity, which for us was already and always from all governments unprecedented. Ivananov, the Skopje President, said that he stated - says - their situation with Mrs Merkel and told her that they have no one to talk to, that on the other side, namely Greece, namely Samaras, they have no partner to discuss and find a solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need half a second to finish. Since that meeting in Dubrovnik, ladies and gentlemen, it was all over. They didn't close the evaluation, they didn't find anything else to ask for additives, they created...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u13	Oh, that's not why the evaluation was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u14	Yeah, that's exactly why it's not because Mrs. Merkel, I told you, told you about identity in an unsuspecting time that you and we had never heard of that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u15	Let go of these now. That's why the evaluation was not made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u16	Of course, obviously. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u18	Of course, obviously. What, the school wheelman didn't get the evaluation? You've hired a hundred Peccids. I don't understand! How are you allowed to go and collect from everywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u19	Say it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u20	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u21	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I will need a second to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u23	Oh, that's not why the evaluation was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Mada, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u25	Yes, of course, it didn't happen. You're very good, you're doing everything and you're evaluated well and applauded with the economy on the tartars. Obviously! You're annoyed! You'll pay for all this, you'll pay for it when the Rainbow comes and ask for a minority that's already calling for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u26	Say it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Please, Mrs. Vulture. Don't answer and finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u28	After all this, the Skopje have found an interlocutor and a solution to our national interests, of course. So don't ask for proof. We didn't put any hidden cameras to see what Tsipras and Merkel were saying and Moscovisi, who suddenly has discomfort. But we know how they pushed us. And we negotiated with them and knew that we always realized that nothing else they're talking about, because they couldn't close the rating for the cleaners. Was that the problem of the Greek economy for Mr. Moscovisi then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u29	Madam Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u30	That's the proof. And don't ask for proof. The evidence is in your works and days! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u33	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u34	Mrs Vultesis, at the very edge of your speech you said that it was a matter of time for a Macedonian minority in Greece. I would ask - if you insist, it has been written in the Minutes - if you do not insist and want to be repacked, to do so, because you understand - and you are very experienced - that this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u35	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u37	I said it was a matter of time before the claim and introduction was made. That's what I said and I don't take it back, because you know very well that on November 11, a conference was held in the "Uranios Toxos" water, where they said that "we avenge a Macedonian minority and teaching Macedonian language in Greek schools". [[Noise in the Chamber]] And you'll be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u38	Okay. It was recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u40	Did these conferences happen for the first time? Fifty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Colleague, don't shout. Everyone calm down, please. Here you go, Mr. Mada, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u42	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u43	Is the lady president here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Metarakis, he doesn't have the floor. The Undersecretary will go up to the Step and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u45	It's making suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u46	The Undersecretary will soon be up to the Step and whatever he wants to say. Do not spread. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u47	Let other colleagues be heard. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Mrs. Undersecretary, you're coming to Stepma. Please. Here you go, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u49	For half a second, Mr President. To make a political confrontation with arguments on the budget, I think it is self-evident and we are all trying to do so. However, speaking in the Chamber - I do not want to make designations, I will politically be placed in my speech - such dangerous things as Mrs Vulture has said, we owe her...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Mada, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u51	What does Mr. Maddash say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Vulture, let me preside over. Mr. Manda, the President of Parliament, Mr. Butsi, has been placed. You don't have to talk about this, too. It's been placed for that. He said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u53	They're dangerous!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Vulture, please! Mrs Vultesis also replied, her refusal was recorded. We understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u55	It's dangerous!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u56	I want to stress it. I have the right, as yesterday, to Mr. Dendias...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Dendias has knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u58	I'm so sorry. Like Mr Dendias yesterday, as Parliamentary spokesman, I want you to let me finish for half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Mada, please finish in the next twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u60	I would therefore point out that, in the Greek Parliament, such views and positions, which are unfortunately expressed by officials of the New Democracy and, from the previous speaker, I do not think they contribute in any way to this calm dialogue to be held on national issues. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u61	It was recorded, Mr. Mada. It's understandable. That is why the President of the House has intervened. We didn't have to extend it any more. They are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u62	You're wrong. The President of the Parliament shall be the President of the Parliament. I speak in institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u63	He claims that I am saying dangerous things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Vulture, the debate is over. All opinions have been recorded. Let us continue, please, in the process. To get ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u65	Self-determination what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u66	Mrs. Swimming, please. You've been placed. It's become the relative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u67	He has no idea what International Law is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Mr Vardakis has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Mada, please. If you both want to come by and continue the conversation. You've both been placed. In order to prepare all colleagues, Mr Vardakis is already in Step, Mr Aivatidis, Mr Fortsakis, followed by the Deputy Minister, Mr Jufi. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u69	Ask that both Moscovisi and Stendo and Merkel resign because they support our country. That's what Mrs. Buddhism said. I think you understood why we've been talking so long about 'domestic troika' and 'teratarian troika'. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the new Republic's rapporteur say that the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government's budgets were budgets of delusion, ideas and that the new budget is neo-monotic and anti-developmental. KINAL colleagues have spoken of a 'fly' budget, and indeed they are putting forward their own proposals. Others have said that unemployment has declined because flexible forms of employment prevail. Really? What about the surplus FBI? How was this surplus created? The truth is, your nakedness is great. You are not talking about the budget these days at all, but you are still in opposition to issues of the Thessaloniki programme and that states weakness. You've probably stayed both of a tire and of a reserve. So, you also force us to remind you of your things, although the Greek people now know them. That is why he has punished you and will punish you again, because not only have you been exemplified by your mistakes, but you are repeating them. In your day, ladies and gentlemen, elastic forms of employment were the norm. But let's take it in turn: have you reached unemployment at 28%, yes or no? Did you reduce the minimum wage overnight, yes or no? Did you establish the underpaid wage - the most disgusting - yes or no? Did you abolish collective bargaining, yes or no? Did you impose HISBIA, yes or no? May I remind you what you were saying about HISBIA? Antonis Samaras: "We are right, but we are wrong. Evangelos Venizelos announces the joy and comes Antonis Samaras and turns it into HIS. Listen, the ones who move the finger today. Adonis Georgiadis on September 23, 2013 said: “HUSH is a fair tax and must exist forever. Greeks don't pay enough taxes. If we want to become a normal state, we must have taxes." Miltiades Varvitsiotis: "He who has no payment to sell his home." Ioannis Stournaras: "ENPHIA is a progressive tax, one of the most important reforms we are making."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr Colleague, give me a minute to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and an attendant of the 6th Municipal School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Colleague, I'm sorry for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u71	What prospects have you created for the development of the primary sector? Only fines, 3 billion fines from illegal subsidies going to "locals". You fired municipal police officers, school guards, teachers, yes or no? You have dissolved the hospitals and sent to Caucasus our uninsured fellow citizens by charging them millions of euros. Responsible statements were signed for discharge and you charged them with the hospitals. You have made EKA a deficit of 1 billion with four hundred thousand unpaid pensions. You abolished the Labour House, the OEC, unique public utility organizations. You have closed off the Agricultural Bank, the only dismantling of the farmers. You have cut 50% of the unemployment fund and disembarked every unemployed person. I will not talk about bonds, the Stock Exchange, the PSI, the conclusion of the insurance funds. I will only tell you what you have done, and that has to do with what Mrs Vulture said earlier: you have done an institution for conflict, for lawlessness and for corruption. Did SYRIZA close production plants and factories? Did SYRIZA deindustrialize the country? Do you remember anything from Law 3845, Law 4002, Law 3986, Law 4024, Law 4046, Law 4093? They were your own laws that plunged wages and pensions and gifts and allowances. These are your plays. There was nothing left to do and so you created the conditions of bankruptcy and impoverishment of the Greek people. And you come today to bid out New Democracy, but so much KINAL and you were all pro-workers, when until yesterday your Chief Mitsotakis said that collective bargaining was an ideal of SYRIZA. And each Greek citizen asks here why, since you were ready in 2014 to come out of the memoranda, get out of the market, you did not apply all these nice things you tell us today, all those proposals you make today because you did not apply them in 2014. It's SYRIZA's fault, I guess. I want to acknowledge that you're modest as good, but in the ideas exhibitions, that's as far as I can tell. Now let's go to the worst government of all time, as you say. The 1-1-2019 minimum wage increase. Abolition of the minimum wage. Restoration of collective bargaining and of the OPCW. In justice, everyone who put the finger on honey. We gave 570 million to hospitals in 2017, when you in 2014 gave 140 million. Full medical coverage of all uninsured. Reduction of HISBIA. Recruitment to education. Re-occupied school guards and municipal police officers. Monitoring of workers at the "Help at Home", which I repeat for thirteen and a half years you had them in a hostage, and the other day you protested at the Ministry of the Interior - side by side with these people. Permanentisation of fire extinguishers, financing in regions and municipalities, creating growth prospects, reducing unemployment of 18%, activation of control mechanisms. Our first country to absorb ESDP funds. Pensions shall not be cut by one euro. Withdrawal of the wine tax, abolition of the trade tax on farmers, reduction of income tax, increase of pensions to six hundred thousand pensioners as of 1 January 2019, a rental subsidy of 710 million social dividends, some 1 billion relief measures. Above all we deliver to the Greek people a sustainable insurance system, 850 million in 2019 for the social income of solidarity, we implement eleven projects from the Ministry of Labour to combat unemployment, 632 million euros. A specific employment programme of five and a half thousand unemployed, aged twenty-two to twenty-nine years, approximately 90 million euros. Business grant programme for the employment of six thousand young people in higher education. Two other programmes of twenty-six thousand young people unemployed, 90 million and 46 million euros. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are two different worlds. In three years we have been able to build what almost you have been degrading for fifteen years. In three years we have managed to restore the lost dignity of the Greek worker. We don't triumph. It still needs a lot of work, because the policies you have implemented in previous years have been totally disastrous. The sooner you understand that the country has now returned a page, the better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. Mr Aivatidis has the floor for seven minutes on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. For the Golden Dawn neoliberalism, expressed by SYRIZA, with the well-known PASOKs, and neoliberalism, which is expressed by the New Democracy, is a reservoir, otherwise the two sides of the same international currency are the same. To confirm that on 5 May this year, President Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission spoke out a fiery speech and remembranced Karl Marx in the Trier of the former Kingdom of Prussia, Germany, and we firmly believe - and there is evidence of this - that he treats the SYRIZA - ANEL Government favourably. I shall refer to some of the elements in the report by Mr Tsakalotou. On page 17, it speaks of enhanced supervision. So exiting the memos is manifestly falsified. There is enhanced supervision, not just supervision. On page 31 provision is made for real GDP and an increase of 2.5%. The budget, therefore, seems to be a developmentist, but it is clearly in that sense because it is based on inextricable overtaxation. To confirm this, on page 43 as regards the analysis of revenues it is noted for income tax: ‘From the retained income tax to natural persons and in particular the retention of the tax due to the payment of the one-off amount to various categories of beneficiaries of special wages we have an increase in income’. It seems, therefore, that the government's hypocritical attitude to retrospectives too, since it receives and does not even pay a sum due to withholding tax. On page 45, this is confirmed. ‘The taxes as forecast for 2019 will be EUR 2.5 billion more than 2017 and over 1 billion more than the estimate for the current year’. As far as social security institutions are concerned, while the Government has carried out this operation not to make the further reduction in pensions, it seems, however, on page 91, in the relevant table, that, as regards pensions, the provision for 2019 is to be reduced. Therefore, the total amount to be granted as pensions in 2019 will be reduced. Also, reduced resources for TAs, i.e. the money to be given to TAs, will be reduced by at least EUR 600 million. I now come to a critical point, which concerns the general government's debt. On page 116, the following is stated: ‘In 2019 the general government debt is projected to be set at EUR 323,5 billion or EUR 167,8 % as a percentage of GDP, showing a decrease of 12,6 percentage points compared with 2018’. I have turned to the relevant document of the European Commission. The European Commission and Jean-Claude Juncker, who approved your budget - I repeat, in the autumn estimate - states that the forecast for 2019, as far as this is concerned, is concerned, i.e. the percentage of general government's debt in relation to GDP, will be 174,9 and not 167.8. So lie. This thing must be corrected, it is not true, and I wonder how Juncker approved this budget. This particular element I think is crucial. I am tabling the relevant document from the European Commission, namely the autumn estimate, which states that what you say about the so-called 12.6% reduction in this fraction is something that is absolutely false. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You should therefore take a position, regardless of whether some of you as super-democrats don't even answer questions or questions posed by the Members of the Golden Dawn, but you should know that the Greek people's crisis is merciless and will punish you for your lies sooner or later. I believe fast. In conclusion, I will say that the government follows a very specific and simple practice. Since, therefore, it is intercepted through overtaxation, direct and indirect, the income of the citizen is then paid by a drop-off procedure, attempting to mislead the citizen. But the well-informed citizen cannot be misled. Mr President, because there has also been a reference to the issue of the name of Skopje, I will tell you that the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is ready to give the sacred name of Macedonia to about half a million self-determined Albanians and eighty thousand self-determined Turks in the state of Skopje. Look out, it's a historical mistake. It'll be on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much Mr. Aivatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and five teachers attending from the 3rd General School of Halandri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fortsakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the 2019 budget, as we all know, for the fourth budget drawn up by the government and the first with such a strong election perfume. It is an anti-development budget, a tough austerity budget, with the exception of minimum communication benefits ahead of the elections. The government is once again choosing its small-scale benefit. It selects communications services instead of development. He's giving benefits instead of giving jobs. It provokes the party state and eliminates any casting of dignity. And it continues its disastrous policy. Unfortunately, the recipe is the same: taxes, unduly high primary surpluses, internal payment stop. The government, after depriving many of many of them, now comes to give few. It has taken austerity measures of 9.5 billion, it has deprived 500 million of the Public Investment Programme and is giving back just 1 billion. Any reductions and benefits are fragmentary are socially unfair. The middle class is still in the middle class. As long as the government is in power it has made seventeen pension cuts and twenty-nine tax increases. It has made the Greek society poor, it has literally dissolved - the middle-class and, yet, it is now cominating that it has supposedly saved the personal difference between pensioners and that it has allegedly reduced taxes and levies, taxes and levies imposed by it itself and that the New Democracy, as we all know, voted against. The Government considers it a success to reduce insurance contributions only for the freelance professionals, which I would remind you, previously alone, had increased. It also considers it a success to reduce corporate taxation. The fact that this tax will be shaped in 2021 at the levels received in 2015 does not seem to concern it or that it itself, alone, had previously increased business tax. It is clear that the government can no longer convince itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZANELs have committed our country with unstable surpluses by 2022 and with heavy obligations by 2060 even our historical monuments have been pledged and the citizens have been despaired. Citizens' dues have exceeded EUR 103 billion. More than 4.3 million fellow citizens currently owe us tax and this figure, unfortunately, is growing. The net revenue for 2019 is increased from 2018 to 53,8 billion, compared with 53,6 billion in 2018. The increase in revenue is primarily achieved by increasing taxes. One more billion euros is added to the already great taxes. I have already said that twenty-nine new taxes have been imposed by the government. 2019 expenditure is reduced by 1.3 billion compared to 2018 but, unfortunately, this reduction is achieved by a knife in the Public Investment Programme. The cash balance is increased by reductions in tax refunds. Public investment crumbles in 2017 at the lowest level of the last decade. Their total delay to date amounts to the unprecedented figure of EUR 2.6 billion. Now, the government comes and reduces them by 550m euros, compared to the 2019 draft budget and the medium term. This is a dramatic cut that deprives the country of growth. The primary surplus in 2019 will be formed in the state budget to 3.6% of GDP or 6.9 billion. The destructive budgetary policy of the overcrowding countries is unfortunately continuing. The draft State Budget provides for a growth rate of 2.1% for 2018 and 2.5% for 2019. Is that possible? Not even by the way. The Government has failed for four years in all its forecasts for growth. Greece has lost potential wealth of EUR 31 billion throughout SYRIZA - ANLE governance. To achieve this year's growth rate, the Ministry of Finance predicts an increase in investment by 11.9%. However, the same predicted for 2018, aiming at an increase of 11.4%, but achieved 0.8%. The forecasts for 2019 are unfortunately bleak and that is because the competitiveness of our economy is declining. Investments have paralyzed. Long-term unemployment remains. Capital control remains. Deposits are not returning to the banks. Private debt is launching. At the same time, the government's overdue liabilities amount to 2.6 billion. There is no prospect of the State paying back its obligations. Reforms have been jammed. The climate of confidence in Greece has not been restored. The country is basically out of marketplace. If the government had not lost credibility, the country would have joined the quantitative relaxation programme and the borrowing rate would have been lower. Unfortunately, this has not been done. We are in a enhanced surveillance regime, unprecedented for European data. It is therefore unlikely that these investments and the growth of the economy will be stimulated under these circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is in fact a Memorandum Budget rather than a Memorandum of Understanding. It is a purely cumbersome budget, a budget with few gifts of communication. But the citizens know the truth. They know that light in the tunnel will only see if a coherent, realistic plan is implemented for the next day of the economy, a plan aimed at reducing taxation and insurance contributions for all, implementing structural reforms, creating quality jobs, strengthening liquidity in the real economy and achieving high and sustainable growth. Citizens think we can do better. With New Democracy in the next government, we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Jufi, for seven minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after eight years of memorial winter, this preliminary draft state budget we are discussing, in our opinion, marks the beginning of return to normality, describing the restoration of credibility and the country's reintegration into the normal international context. I think therefore that the New Democracy nationalist fever, because it is in a full strategic deadlock. This budget marks the removal from the policies of cruel austerity, gradually giving socially-based space to strengthen households' available income, to support sustainable development and, of course, to further reconstruction of the demolished social state and the social protection system. More specifically, education in our country in the memorandum years has been severely affected, as the reduction of people's incomes by up to 50% and government expenditure by 34% has affected a number of situations which have led to child poverty, material deprivation and have consequently affected the performance of the school population. The availability of fewer resources and the reduction in school spending has therefore contributed to the intensity of inequalities. At the same time, there has been a reduction in the possibility of new school units, the maintenance of the existing, the salaries of teachers have been reduced and, most importantly, the recruitment of permanent staff of teachers and other experts has been frozen for ten years, while more than thirty thousand teachers have retired. From this aggressive policy, neither did the universities and research centres which were underfinanced and undermined by a neoliberal idea of privatisation, mainly leading thousands of young people to flee to foreign countries, since there were no places corresponding to their qualifications. For our Government, the real support of the social state in general, but also of public and free education, is a priority. So, since 2015, when, with the mandate of the Greek people, we have undertaken the administration of the country, we have made every effort to reverse the situation, to normalise a series of chronic distortions, to stabilise the education system as a whole, but also to develop it as effectively as possible in the light of the uninterrupted access of all to knowledge and education. The continuing reduction in educational expenditure started in 2011 has therefore stopped with the 2016 budget. Subsequently, in the next budget of 2017, public expenditure increased to about 2.85% on Gross National Product, which is of course the European average, which is 4.7% of GDP, but mainly the negative forecast of the previous government for the current year, ladies and gentlemen, was reversed by only 1.9% of GDP for the whole of education. So, making our priority the quantitative and qualitative development of the good of the education provided, in 2018 we had an increase of 3.6% and in 2019 a significant amount of 5.5 billion is foreseen, of which 4,9 are from the national budget and 565 million from the Public Investment Programme, namely an increase and aid of 4.2% compared to the 2018 budget. And that is the answer to Mr Papatheodorou. I am tabling a diagram, which shows exactly this change in expenditure in the field of education. [[At this point, the State Secretary, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In addition, the universities were supported by exceptional grants and unified and additional grants such as the University of Ioannina, the Epirus TEI, the Ionian University and the Ionian Islands TEI. In addition EUR 20 million was provided for INEDIDIS to cover feeding and cleaning costs and multiple other needs of universities, while the public expenditure on research and innovation doubled with a key contribution of EUR 240 million from the EIIDEC to support young scientists and strengthen research in HI and research centres. In addition, particularly important was the targeted use of other financial instruments, such as the ESRB, for the development of other multi-million euro programmes. More specifically, for special education and training, which belongs to the competences given to me, in fact, disabled and special educational needs are able and obliged to attend in the educational process, of course, by facing a series of serious social stereotypes, inequalities and real difficulties, not only within the school but also in all the dimensions of their lives. What did we do for them? We have founded for the past three years five hundred and seventy new branches of integration, touching the three thousand seventy ten. The total of disabled and special educational needs currently in general schools is about ninety-five thousand and this is a lasting growth trend in recent years. In other words, it seems that the school is a refuge, the school leak falls, and even the amount that appears is 6%, when the European average for 2020 was 10%. Part of these children, about eleven thousand students, attend special school education units. We have also founded thirty-six units such that over the last four hundred fifty with multiple problems that have improved for their safe transport, while there are still at a very significant percentage of schools, in a 60% to 70%, serious problems of accessibility. However, in order to address these needs in schools that were undersubscribed - because permanent staff were only three and a half thousand people - we have greatly increased staff capacity to both educational and special and auxiliary staff. This year, the recruitments are in record numbers, they touch over 16 thousand, over 50% - and I table that - to cover almost all the demands in many specialities, parallel support, school nurses, special staff. In fact, most recruitments have been undertaken since the beginning of the school year, which is an indication of and recognized by the educational world and society. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is the Prime Minister's announcement - and it is also included in the preliminary draft budget - that four thousand five hundred teachers are recruited in 2019 and further support is expected from our given government to restore the rule "one to one", which the "sensitive" New Democracy insists on returning to "one to five". We have also advanced a number of very important reforms to improve the quality of special education - which is not enough time to read them - and we are planning other sorts of reform things more important, such as early intervention in compulsory two-year pre-school education, and the development of new postnatal support structures for people with severe disabilities in cooperation with other ministries, by providing our Ministry of Specialized Staff and Lifelong Learning projects. Vocational education is a sector of time-consuming despair, which has made a crucial contribution to the abolition of tens of specialties and the availability of teachers in the summer of 2013, when the leadership of the Ministry of Administrative Reform was the current Head of New Democracy. However, since 2016, the strategic plan for upgrading vocational education with new programmes has been implemented, such as the new PESA principle - with enhanced teaching, with the staff, with psychologists, with the implementation of funded action plans - the exits given to children who are graduates of vocational high school with an improved input rate in tertiary education, with newly established two-year courses of vocational education at universities and TEI and with the possibility of participating in the new institution of the optional post-training year - apprenticeship class, gaining professional rights at the level '5'. This new architecture, the targeted interventions, funding from national and other resources, this new strategic planning is reflected for this sector in the positive impressions of the vast social majority and also of the educational community that has embraced it and supported it. It is also reflected in the increase in the percentages of apprenticeship potential. We have an increase of 6.5% in daily PSAs, 13% in PSAs and 33% in apprenticeships for the current year. It is reflected in the doubling of the number of assistant teachers moving upwards. Of course, there are still problems, as there are many actions under way to change the curriculum, to write new educational materials, to upgrade laboratory equipment and so on. Our Ministry also has the responsibility of Greek-language education. There we have been able to contribute to the early coverage of educational and administrative gaps, to lifting some of the counter-motors and to manage to provide some 75% of these units, and there has also been a positive change in the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, if you'd like, you'd be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I will need another minute. This shows the practical support of the Ministry in the education of Greek children who are abroad, whether they are members of the communities of the expatriates or children of new immigrants, who were forced to leave abroad because of the serious social and economic crisis that broke out in our country. In conclusion, the debate on the preliminary draft budget requires the printing of figures and quantitative data and I tried to give some of them. Our anxiety about the reversal of the Memorandum of Reality often compels us to speak with figures and indicators. Our main concern is to stabilise the education system as a whole, to restore it and to start talking about the qualities of education, which, of course, can thrive only in the light of public and free education for all and for all. In this direction we are in constant dialogue with the educational community, with legislative work, with increased funds and, of course, with the continuation of actions, with cooperation and programming frameworks and with all other ministries, but above all with the educational community, local authorities and society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics is tabling its report. This report will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. The above-mentioned report is in electronic format in the archives of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in consultation with the Bureau, no change will be allowed from the parliamentary groups in terms of order and when Members will speak. If they are not here, while their name is being written on the basis of the renewed list that is currently in existence, they will not have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u81	Why is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u82	It is a decision of the Bureau. It was only until yesterday that the relevant changes were made. I have been informed by the Bureau that there will be no new changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u83	They're small, they're little atoms. I don't think there's any issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u84	It'll show. If it's for five people, we'll talk about it, but know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u85	Let's move on now. In the end, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Mr. Loverdo, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u88	Let's move on to the list. I understand what the Bureau says, but I understand the Chamber. I would ask you very much, because it is absurd that this choice should be made again. Let us move on now and then look at it. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u89	What we are going to do for our part is not to speak with colleagues. But if, at the end of the day, fifteen, twenty colleagues gather together, you understand that not everyone will be able to merge. Normally today we should have completed the tenth cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I understand that. What if they all accumulate on Monday? Replacement, however, solves the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Loverdo, you see we're running out of tolerance, and everyone's not in their time. All colleagues speak over eight to nine minutes. We do not want to make any remarks because we understand that it is not nice and discreet on our part, but we will come to the point in seven minutes to close the microphone so that everyone can talk. The tenth cycle should have been completed by the end of today's sitting, and we will hardly be able to finish the ninth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, the debate has gone very well. You're right about what you're saying. What am I talking about now? Because the Bureau is right to fear that if some do not come and then ask to speak on Monday, we will not have time to do so. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u93	That is why I said that they will not be spoken for non-registered purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u94	Let me finish. We agree and are finally deleted unless they are replaced. If the parties themselves are replaced, i.e. instead of each other, it is too much to say no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u95	All right, we'll talk about it during the process. At least as long as you can beg once more to be within your time. Mrs Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u96	The budget shows government revenue and expenditure next year. One understands whether one will live better or worse. So we're asking. Do you guarantee a man of a people's family with a permanent and stable job and a decent wage so he can live it? Do you ensure his children's education better than his, without having to pay for it? Will it be health, public insurance and free of charge, without anxiety, if anyone happens and gets sick, have no debts and sleep alone at night? Is he going on vacation? Will he enjoy culture, sport? Will he live in a human environment? Why can the people not enjoy these basics, which, of course, does not guarantee them, neither this budget nor the previous ones? Because the capitalist way of production is levelling human needs, to make his profits sound. This is reflected in today's budget, and it concerns everything, as well as education, no matter how beautiful the Minister is to give it to us. There's a lot of gaps. It has spent the first quarter and by the end of the year it is estimated at twenty - seven thousand. They're closing sections of the PSAs. They're in children and parents' mobilizations together. Over thirty-five thousand have been retired, both in primary and secondary education and, of course, not even from the budget, despite all the small increases that exist, and in any case it is not a permanent and stable job. Let's not talk about the special treatment. Biggest gaps. Hell for both children and teachers. Let's be honest and be brave. The revenues of the budget are not derived from the taxation of the major shareholders of business groups, i.e. the wealthy ones. They have the most tax exemptions. That's why their contribution is only 6%. This has always been true with the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, the same goes for SYRIZA. Most revenues are from the fierce taxation of the working class and of the people's classes and at the same time save resources from the reduction of costs, which are for the needs of the people's family. That's why thousands of young children will never find a place again in 2019 at a nursery, after you cut off the costs to create new ones. But you have revenues and you are also planning them through the various forms of privatisation in strategic areas, undermining the country's defence and security - and you and the previous ones - from telecommunications, energy, airports, ports and so on. In fact, these privatisations are covered by the law on the protection of foreign capital, where they are exempted from taxation, and their expropriation is prohibited, foreign capacity may be used and other provocative privileges may be used. It is the law of 1953 adapted to Article 107 of the Constitution, which the JRC proposes to abolish, but you are doing what you are not all listening to. That's right. You give the country's wealth to the jaws of business groups, the European Union and NATO, and you condemn the majority of the people to poverty and misery. The budget presents the assets of the Greek public and the privatizations. You are talking about an ambitious programme and an economic rationalisation, which will ensure lasting economic growth in the country, as you say, with modern visions and strong values. This concerns capital and not the people. You therefore include from "ELELANDS PETRELAYA", to DESFA, EKIDAP, EKIDATH and ports, with the first and best of Alexandroupolis, since you are rapidly converting them on a basis of US and NATO. Basically you convert them into a base for reception and assembly of nano helicopters and perhaps electronic surveillance of the Black Sea and the Bosporus Straits. They are the dangerous US plans in the Balkans, emphasising military control of sea closes and NATO membership of states that play a role in transporting energy and goods from Asia to Europe. The government is taking the lead in these dangerous Atlantic designs in order to show Greece as a gateway to the entry of Chinese goods into the European Union and, on the other hand, to contribute to the control of certain sea and rail routes from the USA and NATO. This is why you also highlight the privatisations that you are voting on together at the ports of Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis. The consequences for employees, workers and self-employed live in Piraeus. How did COSCO last year achieve the best performance of profitability over the last decade? It was achieved by intensifying workers' work, who work even on a constant 12-hour day without a guaranteed day, with individual contracts, in dangerous working conditions, in conditions of psychological pressure and professional stress. It was achieved by the government of SYRIZA, with the help of the New Democracy and the PASOK, that passed a law in February 2017 that made port workers unskilled and other anti-government laws. Yes, there are modern cranes, business clusters, huge increase in Group Profit. At the same time, however, the situation of the people's strata is deteriorating, proving that there are exploiters and exploiters. And you all welcome that the port is being upgraded and the country is being raised to a hub of transporting goods and energy with geopolitical upgrading of the country to the detriment of the rights and life of the people. At the same time, economic and political competition between the US, China and the European Union is exacerbated and the issues that the government is trying to resolve to serve the interests of the ruling class are complicated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, fair growth or regularity or a prologue budget with benefits for all, there is no one. You're lying consciously. Nor is there a miraculous way to ensure the interests of the victims of capitalist exploitation at the same time as their exploiters. In addition, Memorandum policies are implemented in all European Union countries, because they are a policy to support the profitability of the monopoly capital. So it must also be a fighter's answer from the people and from the Greek people, so that the working people can get out of the way. Solution? The organization and struggle and mass participation in the pan-Hellenic rallys on Tuesday 18 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Karagunis has the floor, and immediately after the State Secretary, Mr Tyridos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. A constant, almost time-consuming, criticism of the way we deal with the budget in Greece is that we are budgeting, as in any country in the world, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not making accounts. The budget without a balance sheet and without mechanisms for its implementation is a wish. And it is the constant failures of the budget, which not only undermine the proper exercise of economic policy but also the operation of the state itself. So for me - and I have said it before - the primary is not what the budget says, but if it is kept. In our case, which is not just another budget, but the election budget of the SYRIZA, it is precisely to remember one of my old words - the budget of the fairy tale. And because that particular fairy tales will go home, in this sense at this stage he can say what he wants. If there are two features of SYRIZA's economic policy, on the one hand, there is virtuality and, on the other, irresponsibility. Especially the latter is contemplating the realization that this time, the budgetary responsibility and the management of chaos that SYRIZA will have left behind by others. And, of course, it will be run by others. It is a virtual reality budget, because it is presented by the government as healthy and balanced. But the truth is that this is mainly due to tax and, of course, to the Minister for Finance, to poverty. And whoever really knows what's going on in the Greek economy is definitely laughing at what government officials say about the state of the economy. In response to the virtuality of what this budget - Pinocchio presents, I will say what each citizen, every Greek who does not belong to the order of the government, the first time left. Greece in the years of the crisis has lost 25% of its GDP, i.e. has suffered a disaster greater than that of the United States in the major crisis of 1929. State revenues and great surpluses come from taxation, taxation and collecting terrorism with millions of arbitrary seizures even for a few hundred euros and from tax controls - lame as long as they can continue their work, despite the judicial decisions they want to make Greece a serious state of tax justice. Nearly 1/4 of the population remains unemployed. The unemployment of young people is still over 50% and half a million people capable and talented young people have been alienated abroad because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, they cannot live in the country of a fairy tale. In this country, moreover, the fairy tale that would abolish HIS and toss the Memorandum, kept it all in full. And if he says we're done with the memorials, he says, obviously, because he's fully implemented everything, every line of the memorandum. You have nothing more to do. Poverty, accuracy, hunger pensions, seizures, collapse of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and, ultimately, rapid declining of the middle class. At the same time Greece alone in the world continues to apply capital controls. And, of course, banks which in each economy are the lever of growth, in reality do not carry out banking work, but simply act as a mechanism to assist tax collection. This is, Minister of Finance, Greece of SYRIZA and this is your economy. As I said, apart from virtuality, the other feature of SYRIZA's economic policy is irresponsibility. Because as I said before, the rulings know that in a few months' time they will not just go home, but henceforth the timeless, political slogan of the country after this four-year period will be 'the people do not forget what left means'. What's the word, of course, Left, why is she doing all Mr. Shoeble's favours? So to continue my thoughts, next to virtual reality, we've also met the SYRIZA paradox. Now you remembered them. Just before the election. What you have done for almost four years, the very opposite, that is, now you are saying that you will solve them. You're the ones who've been applying insurance contributors to the Katrugalu law, now you're saying you're going to reduce them, because they're unfair. If they are unfair, why have you legislated them, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA? You who have again done the law of Katrugalu on widows' pensions not even enough for the PPC of one month, now you say that you have managed not to reduce pensions. And you're serious. You who taxed anything that moves, now say you will see to it that the tax reduction is suspended. You obviously don't understand that you're temporarily hosting power and that when you're out of your mind, the bill will, of course, pay someone else. But you say "you're not bored, let's promise everything now, let's keep us inside. For four years we have done exactly the opposite. That is why SYRIZA's impulse and imperialism is cynically explained - all international means write it - as an attempt to remain as much as possible in power. And you're openly admitting it to SYRIZA's own executives. This is where we are, unfortunately. And if, as I said at the outset, it is of greater importance for each budget, it can in this very time-consuming situation that we are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately not so much. Because as virtual and irresponsible your budget, the fact remains, will come in a few months' time of truth, which is inevitable in every democracy, namely election time. In these elections, the people will leave back SYRIZA's splitting and mythical populism and will begin a course of real recovery without virtualities, without irresponsibility, but an agreement of truth with the productive forces of the country as we call it. It will, of course, be New Democracy time, and in a few months' time from now all that we are discussing, Mr Minister of Finance, will be a comeco-tragic memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Karaguni. The floor has been requested by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Tyigoridou. Madam Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes, with tolerance and I ask you not to exhaust the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u100	I will try, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this House today is discussing the first budget of the memorial era and because, if we want this debate to be honest, we must not say fairy tales and tell the people who are listening to us, we must tell the truth. So we remember that, for eight years to arrive here, society has passed a very great trial, a test and adventure that began under the responsibility of the old governments from the lack of strategic planning for economic development, from the pillaging of the productive base, from the indifference of the broad popular strata, from the indifference of the future of the new generation, from analgesia for the quality of life of our elderly, from the phenomena of corruption, the interdependence and ultimately the devaluation of our own democracy. In the past eight years, incomes have not simply shrinked, dreams, hopes have been reduced and the horizons of the Greek people have been restricted for a decent life. I would therefore expect here today for this situation, by those who do not want the fairy tales, by the representatives of the old political system who have led us to this adventure, to make their own self-criticism. That can't be. And how do you address the Greek people and ask them to trust you when you don't recognize your mistakes and when you're unrepentant? Instead of recognizing their responsibility, they are consciously undermining the positive prospect that is now being opened before us for society and home only with a view to their return to power. In fact, we have reached the point that it should be heard in this Chamber a few 24 hours ago, but also by colleagues from the Officerial Representation a moment ago, the terrible complaint both to the Prime Minister and to our Government that we have exchanged the pension cut with Macedonia. Those who were begging for secret meetings with Zaev to wait for a change in the government in Greece to negotiate with them, those who begged Moscovisi and Merkel, to go ahead with the reduction of pensions and not allow the government to suspend the reduction of pensions, those who were pushing in every way, not to go ahead with the country in front, blame that we exchanged Macedonia with the non-pension of pensions. We are being blamed, in other words, for a horrendous transaction, like those who know very well how to do things today and judge strange ones themselves. And it is so great that Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are the ones that I sincerely believe that because the Greek people have a crisis and a perception, there is no need for further comment. All they are proposing today for the place is elections, with the hope that they will be won by them. Fortunately for the place the wish of the Chief of New Democracy and the officers of Officerial Representation will take place in 2019, and will be given the opportunity to test you not in an election but in many of the self-government, European elections, national elections, and after the unfavourable results for you, in the end of your inner-party elections to elect a new Chief of Police. In the face of the responsibility we receive from the condemned past, we move with determination on the next day. And this budget is geared to the next day. It is the first budget that allows us to formulate a more autonomous policy. It is the bridge, which must and may constitute the passage from the time of the memoranda to the relaunch of the development process. This means a change of model, dictating national needs and not micro-party purposes. The growth of the economy is now an undeniable fact, which all relevant indicators confirm, and that enables us to strengthen our country's position in the Balkans, in the Mediterranean and in Europe and strengthen it not only economically but also geopolitically. We have lost decades, ignoring this particular geopolitical position. Greek agriculture, crafts, commerce and industry have been caught up in the philosophy of an "Athenscentric" design that ignored regional debate and has resulted in damage to even the capital and cancel the possibility of penetrating our country into the markets of neighbouring countries. This is changing today. We must, in particular, leave agricultural production behind the old traditional model and express a new dynamic, to express the re-living of the countryside with new forms of production, with the strengthening of cooperative schemes, with innovative initiatives. Using new technologies and intelligent agriculture, agriculture can become the main pillar of development in the new era. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are moving on to reduce farmers' insurance contributions, abolishing the trade fee, abolishing the excise duty on wine, supporting development projects through the NRP and the Public Investment Programme, which is increasing by EUR 120 million. Overall, we are moving towards measures that help to restructure the agricultural sector so that it becomes more competitive and more extroverted. In this direction we have already activated 83% of the public expenditure of the Rural Development Programme. Thirty-one new notices totalling EUR 3.2 billion have been launched. I think that is the direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the reconstruction of society, the return of the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have emigrated, all go through the economic, educational and cultural regeneration of the countryside. This government's great patriotic and democratic alliance, which today is a reference point for progressive Europe, will give and win the battle for sustainable development and the well-being of many. The vote in favour of this budget marks the start of this new victory. It's up to us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. My colleague from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Thaleritis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the budget, I would like to say that a text has been drawn up which is addressed to all the groups in the democratic arc and which concerns the zero tolerance that we must have as Members of Parliament in relation to violence against women, racial violence and feminism. This text that has been drafted has been adopted by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, where all the Members and MPs have signed, and the KINAL Parliamentary Group has also agreed through Mrs Christophilopoulou and we expect the other parliamentary groups to agree to have this announcement and to be published on the basis of the feminist and women's organizations for the rape and murder of Helena Topaloudi. I shall read the text but not very thoroughly, as I have sent it to all the groups. I will just say that as members of the Greek Parliament, we have ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence and which has become a law now, namely No 4531/2018. In accordance with Article 70 of the Convention, the parliaments are to monitor and take appropriate measures to implement it. "On the occasion of this and because violence against women constitutes a violation of human rights, it is a form of discrimination against women and includes all acts of gender-based violence that have or may have the effect of physical, psychological, sexual, economic or pain to women either occurs in the public or in the private area, and because violence against women is one of the most important social mechanisms through which women are led to an inequal position and genocide is an extreme form of sexist and patriarchal violence, we express our anger and condemn the rape and murder of Helen Topalude, all rape and all genocide of women and young girls in our country and internationally. We express our wrath and condemn the culture of tolerance of racial violence, patriarchy, sexism, abuse, injury, torture, rape and murder women and girls because they are women and girls. We state very clearly that we will no longer be silent. We state that for us the prevention and eradication of violence against women is primarily a political issue and a top political priority, and we are determined and determined, within our institutional role, to work systematically to protect women from all forms of violence to prevent and eliminate racial violence and the culture of rape, which highlights male violence as something anticipated and normal. We are determined and determined to contribute to the change of social and cultural patterns of behaviour to eliminate prejudice, customs, traditions and all practices based on the idea of inferiority of women or on stereotyped roles...". The text continues. It is - I think - clearly against discrimination on human rights. He concludes by saying: "Let no more be lost, so that women can live free, independent and without fear". We would therefore like this text to be signed by the other groups. I think it would be very good to be here today and on Monday at the demonstrations organized by women's and feminist organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u103	My colleague, you should know that most of your time has consumed it in this. The Bureau cannot have a corresponding tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u104	Perhaps, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u105	You won't tell me, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u106	At least three minutes, like the others, you could give them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u107	I'll give you one or two minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u108	Good. Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin my speech on the 2019 budget, in response to Mr Stakoura on the improper years of governance of the SYRIZA and the effort made to set aside the previous years, that is, forty years over the last four years, while at the same time responding to the political perception of governance by permanent rulers, who, despite their rhetoric, are really hard to accept the democratic terms of the game. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So first of all, the state budget for 2019 is about a year that marks the country's reintegration into the international economic system and launches a gradual shift in budgetary policy from the multiannual adjustment to the rationalised expansion. Because we are slowly but constantly monitoring the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy to improve, 2019 is a year in which fiscal policy is gradually turning into a new mix of policies that have a triple objective. Strengthen household income, support sustainable development and face chronic social protection deficits. This allows the four years of governance of SYRIZA, which have made a decisive contribution to achieving today's exit from the memoranda, to reducing unemployment and building a social state. Of course, all this protection of the social state, which has been a great effort over the last four years, has been carried out with SYRIZA policies, although we are not the ones who incorporated the Greek people in the memoranda, but you are the government of the New Democracy and PASOK. Despite your account, therefore, on the contrary, we will not hand over what you are doing to oblivion and, above all, we will not hand over to oblivion the consequences of these policies. So, as I said, the SYRIZA Government that managed to change the mix of budgetary policy and would not have been possible without the financial performance of the last three years, but, above all, it would not have been possible if the sacrifices of the Greek citizens were not made today. It reduces tax burdens and contributions and strengthens measures and actions for social protection. Because a great deal has been said by colleagues, and I do not want to repeat them, I would just like to raise two points concerning the budget for recruitment in the public sector. What does the New Democracy claim, ladies and gentlemen? That there is a growth of the state, of the public sector. So let's see what the budget says about it. In December 2014, regular staff were five hundred sixty-seven thousand eighty-six and five hundred sixty-sixty-sixteen in August 2018. Furthermore, according to the information in the register, the number of recruitments of staff with a fixed-term private employment relationship and works lease contracts charged by the State budget was maintained in the years foreseen in the previous years and noted a decrease. Here, too, you can see this reduction in the budget. So how, while we have these, can we eat that we are strengthening a client state? Ladies and gentlemen, it will be very interesting to see what happens in this period. Is what the New Democracy says wrong, or is the conscious falsification of reality? Does any appointment to the public at the moment serve immediate and urgent needs so that the public can stand and function in the years of the Memorandum of Understanding with the rule of an intake for every five departures? Here again, we must not hand over to the oblivion that public administration during the memorial period has suffered a horizontal reduction, which has no precedent in another European country and reaches 20% with the result that it has suffered a great malfunction. So, ultimately, what New Democracy claims to increase the public sector is true or is it a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u109	Madam Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, are there any recruitments outside the PHS? Yes, there are. What are these recruitments, though? Can we see them? Is it hired for the payroll services?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u111	Please don't report the recruitments, because it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u112	Give me two minutes, Mr President, to finish my proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u113	I can't give you two minutes, Mrs. Welleritis. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u114	All right, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u115	You can't talk 12 minutes to the whole. I told you all over again. Two minutes of tolerance you've already had and you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u116	For the public administration it is very important to mention that we are now keeping the Memorandum of Understanding, but we have managed to achieve rule 1 in 5, that is to say an intake for every five departures, to make it 1 in 1, one intake for each departure, and our aim is to speed up and complete all institutional changes, so that we have a remarkable and transparent public administration. We do this not by appointing, like Mr Mitsotakis before 2014, all the directors in the public sector, but at the moment we have a crisis system. And we with these appointed directors have been political all these years, over the four years, and now we have created a proper system of merit, so that we can have public administration with transparency and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. We, as Bureau, of course, condemn all forms of violence. It is very important that you raise the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Nafplio High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On behalf of the Democratic Assent, I Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Kremastinos, has been speaking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not use an academic language addressed to a few or the wooden political language, which demolishs citizens to fans. I'll try to speak simple and understandable. This budget is the first budget after three Memorandums. It is a budget, which covers the year of the elections, and it goes without saying. It is a budget which tries to relieve the victims of all three memoranda independently of how they participate in the victimisation in each Memorandum. In other words, it is a subsidy budget, which is mainly based on overcompensation. However, it is a surplus, mainly resulting from overtaxation and a reduction in public investment, which constitute oxygen for the development of each country. The question arises for how long can the country continue to move within this economic framework, with these principles. How can there be growth and investment, when there is such a high tax and when banks are in fact unable to give loans to healthy businesses to move the economy? Do you know of any country on the planet developing with capital control - of course improved - and overtaxation? Don't look. There's no such country anywhere. Competitiveness wants a low tax, a bank loan. However, the greatest concern we all have is whether, in these circumstances, the markets will lend Greece at low interest rates, because if there is no loan at low interest rates, then the well-thoughtful development for the country will be a dream of summer night, with unforeseen consequences for the country's further economy. It is high time that the government and the Qualified Opposition to understand their responsibilities and agree, without party calculations, on the main points to finally get the country out of this economic crisis. The bad image of the past should not be repeated, where the political system almost all behaved - let me be allowed to express - depending on the allegiance of the virgins of the Gospel. Greece, unlike all other countries, and Cyprus, with the exception of Cyprus, which had an economic problem, has unfortunately acted like baby virgins. Giorgos Papandreou believed that himself could get the country out of bankruptcy, with the implementation of the first memorandum, within a year, which is why he did not make a referendum or elections in May 2010. However, the indignant citizens in the Constitution and across the country, along with almost all the parties, prevented the implementation of the first memorandum, to come after a few months to Antonis Samaras, who had deleted - notable - Dora Bakoyannis, because he voted for the first Memorandum, to support the Government of Papademos, which was forced by the lenders to implement the PSI, which was not in the first memorandum or at least not implemented. He then necessarily applied a second memorandum, which was not better than the first, but was worse. Finally, the period of delusion, as the Prime Minister described it, followed by a Minister of Finance then Giannis Varoufakis during the first half of 2015. It was the period which, unfortunately, brought about by the third memorandum, which was worse than both, because it was forced to accept the weight of the former and, in addition, to impose capital controls on the banks, i.e. essentially to close them down. It was forced, instead of increasing, as SYRIZA promised, to reduce pensions further - the already reduced - and to lead the middle class, almost to disappearance with heavy taxation, which followed, but the worst of all, was that it was forced to take advantage of public property, at least for a century, which no one ever thought of doing. "Neither a rock island," said Andreas Papandreou to Konstantinos Mitsotakis, "it must not be granted for exploitation to foreigners". So even Cyprus, which suffered the haircut in its banks, but which implemented a single memorandum, is now out of crisis, with a growth of about 4% of its GDP. I mean, winners and winners, we all lost together. This, unfortunately, is the reality for the country and from now on, the responsibilities of the government and of the opposition, which will arise after the elections, will be enormous for the next generations, if they do not do the self-evident thing, that is to say they understand what our brothers in Cyprus quickly understood, that, in order to get out of this economic situation, which is now a one-way one, one-way street: in Cyprus, communists, socialists, conservatives, right-wing and extremes agreed on the self-evident, on the one-way road. The Portuguese and Irish have done so, and today they enjoy better days than we do. People'sism and demagogy never lead to better days and hard police measures in order to impose order on a country which is financially unrealistic. What President McCron is facing today in France will also face any government in the future to seek broad consensus with its counter-population with tough measures. Hard measures cannot be accepted by this suffering society. The country needs political maturity. See the example of England: Half are in favor of Brexit and the other half against. That's a huge problem for the country. No one, however, thinks of calling the other "supplier". The prime ministers of the small countries are obliged to develop in foreign policy to ensure better days for their country, within the framework of the globalised economy and the superpowers. Mistakes can be made, but there are no traitors and patriots. Unfortunately, it is a bad habit of our people, which comes from far away, from antiquity, and should stop today and not, unfortunately, go on if we want to be called Europeans and not call us Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Zorba, Minister for Culture and Sport, has the floor. Madam Minister, you have ten minutes at your disposal. So the next one can get ready, then it's Mr. Sarakiotis. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos and Mr Kefaloyannis, have asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport has an increase of EUR 10.5 million. It has reached 350m euros since last year's 339m euros. Of these, 45m euros come from the Public Investment Programme and the cultural sector is at 250.4m euros, while sport at 54.58m euros. However, there are also revenues from the EFF, which are steadily growing annually and thus, for 2019, the budget is almost above EUR 55 million. This is therefore a budget which, after the years of the shrinkage during the crisis, allows for a breathtaking, better planning. An important development for 2018 was the implementation of the online ticket, which was applied to archaeological sites, monuments and museums in the country, and therefore we are working - and continue - on a systematic basis to extend its application. At the same time, the well-functioning of the sites strengthens the visibility and tourist development of the country, exploiting the potential of cultural heritage, with a stable public interest. For next year, we will consistently continue our efforts to improve the management of projects and actions which serve both the cultural heritage and the strengthening of the capabilities of the country's modern, creative cultural and artistic production. We focus on projects that are capable of connecting to development, so that the strategy of the Ministry can be produced productively through the Public Investment Programme and the use of creative industry and digital applications in culture. In the new, after the crisis, a period in which the country enters, there are some major problems, which I would like to speak about. Overall, we would say that we are facing the challenges of a new example, which is evident to the wider cooperative initiatives, the extroversion and the attempt of the world of culture to rebuild after the crisis and, at the same time, to create a new vision. As a world of culture, we mean the world of creators, artists, producers, as well as those who work in the wider field of cultural management, where their universities and postgraduate departments play an important role, as well as the cultural industry and every living cell of culture on the ground. For our part, the points of reference we are working on are first of all the broadening of the concept of culture in fields beyond the conquered ones. And saying conquered, I mean the cultural heritage, the letters and the arts. The Ministry should not ignore, but interfere with the socio-cultural phenomena of everyday life, those involving people's experienced culture and often conflict-fields, allowing aggression and violence to find ground, intolerance, religious intolerance, sexism, racism and xenophobia. It is precisely this area in which the relationship between political democracy and cultural democracy is seen, where our society is founded on the meaning and not only the typical processes of democracy, where we must be vigilant and defending cultural rights, not to tolerate all kinds of inequalities and discrimination - race, sex, religious, sexual orientation, social or ethnic origin - so that as a society - and through political intervention - we must be decisive in the face of totalitarianism and fascist behaviours that are trying to divide, which cause conflicts and crimes, racism and hatred. Culture is arts and museums and books, but also to defend ourselves firmly and decisively, for all, and not selectively and with half-closed eyes, legality, freedom of expression and rights, which are indicators of the measurement of cultural democracy. I will not dwell in particular on the projects which are under way and which are many, hundreds or the supervised bodies, because the situation there has stabilised and the period of great pressure and crisis has passed. A special point, however, to which I should like to refer, is the organisation and role of the Special Secretariat of Contemporary Culture, which will soon be a decisive factor in the design and implementation of cultural policy on contemporary culture in the region. To this end, we are in a process of planning and directing regional cultural policy, which concerns contemporary culture, because, as you know, the cultural heritage already has a great regional structure. We are looking forward to a decade, to the creation of a new and clear model of development and social and cultural cohesion, which concerns all regions of the country. In this context, the aim is to reconstruct the identity and visibility of cities and regions, with the main focus of the inclusion of all groups of the population, cultural cohesion through the reduction of inequalities, participatory processes, productive and economic reconstruction and also refreshment. We're in consultation very soon. In this consultation, apart from institutional actors, municipalities and regions, which have de facto important roles, all culture cells - libraries, organisations, university schools, cinema clubs, museums, clubs - will have an important role. A second point, to which I wish to stand, is culture for children and young people. The relationship between minors and culture, services and consumption of cultural products and goods, as well as the media and digital applications and all the new cultural practices that these ages have and often alienate us, are at the heart of our interest. After research, which is soon completed, we will be able to support a policy with a programme aimed at action for children. We want art and communication, but also more general creativity, which feeds the fantasy and shapes the identity of children and young people, to be at the heart of their lives dynamically, offering them the treaty of free expression and creative supplies, which form new subjects with critical thought, young citizens with democratic conscience, freedom of opinion and expression. The Ministry of Culture recognises the share of its responsibility for the cultural rights of children and young people. The child-citizen is a devolved member of the democratic society, entitled to have equal access to social processes, to information, to knowledge and to culture, to participate and to play an active role in the course of his life and his future. It is not an inappropriate object of formation at the request of adults, but it is a growing subject, which matures and should provide him with the guarantees of a safe life and the conditions of fair distribution of conditions of development. However, we also have a special obligation to support children belonging to vulnerable groups, such as children in poverty, detention centres and centres, children with disabilities, Roma children, refugees and immigrants and other groups at risk of exclusion. In this area, we believe in actions together, in actions together, capable of causing relevance and affecting equally all the parties involved: other supportive to vulnerable groups, other sensitizing them, those that come into contact with the vulnerability of others, the different. It is where we need to build bridges of communication, joint actions and a new attitude of life that goes beyond sensitivity and recognition of specificity and turn into an active anti-discrimination attitude. Social benefits in support of children and young people have been significant and stable, impressively, I would say, growing over the last three years. They were salvages for many families and children, but thanks to them, and after that it is time to complement them with cultural support policies. As far as young creators and artists are concerned, we are planning a programme for the creative groups of young producers and artists who, coming out of the crisis, must have tools and possibilities to show what they can, more dynamically and more distinctively. This is why the centre for contemporary cultural creation, which will be housed in AKROPOL, believes that it is an open, public, creative, young space - nodes for the development and enhancement of contemporary activity and artistic creation. Finally, - but not so much as to its importance - I am referring to the new organization of books and culture, which we have promised and which is in consultation and which we believe will be able to complete its plan. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u121	Thank you too, Madam Minister, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Loverdos, you cut off for the second time in the morning to Mr. Sarakiotis, who is the next speaker and began to come to Stepma. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u124	One question, Minister. I did it yesterday and the other day. I just want to ask you a simple question. From what my colleague, Ms. Hara Kefalidou, said days ago - who has asked you a relevant question - your predecessor, or rather not exactly her, but your services on your predecessor, have cost you the "sales price" of monuments of antiquity or even newer. We read that when you saw this, you reacted very strongly. I think you did that. Please very much, can you tell us exactly what has happened, with a word and whether or not there will be exceptions during your term of office? It is a terrible fact in itself, if there has been, that the property of the Greek people in terms of cultural heritage had been costed one to one part.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u125	Madam Minister, you have the floor, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Loverdo, I consider the question very rhetorical. There are already procedures in place, which have gone ahead. The identification of the monuments and their inclusion in the exemption shall be given by the beginning. I do not understand what you mean by 'costing' for monuments and sites of cultural heritage, which are neither costed nor sold nor can anyone question that they belong to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u127	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Loverdo, please. We don't have to get into a process. I gave you the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, he did not answer. He avoided the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Sarakiotis has gone up to Stepma. Immediately afterwards, you'll talk from the Step. You have a talk right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u131	No, Mr. President. He didn't answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u132	It doesn't matter. Answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u133	Tell the truth, Minister. No tricks!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u134	That was her answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u135	Was there a cost or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Loverdo, you don't sound. The next speaker has gone up in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u137	No tricks!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Loverdo, please. Respect the colleague, who went up to Stepma, and for the third time we cut him off, in fact. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor and I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the need for the Officers to invent a narrative, a board of salvation that concerns her economic policy. Certainly, it is not easy to convince the citizens of a country that you went bankrupt because they have experienced the tragic effects of your actions and actions in their daily lives. I'm sure you thought about it very seriously, you consulted your exacted contactians, you thought the Greek people had a very short memory and you presented it to us. How, then, is your account classified? Just two words: Abnormal austerity. You repeat this all the time, and your rapporteur stressed it in his speech, and it is your permanent inclination to all positions. But let us see what is behind the unnecessary austerity that the current government has allegedly brought. You aim primarily to hide your responsibilities artificially. The crisis and the bankruptcy of the country, of course, was not a skiesmith, it was not brought by the aliens, by the privileged interlocutors of your President. You, obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are the sole responsibility of the sufferings of Greek citizens and that is not my personal view. The former Commissioner responsible for European Union finances, Mr Joakin Almunia, some of your privileged interlocutors in April 2009, on the occasion of the entry of the Greek economy, for the most part, to surveillance for an excessive deficit, said that they gave us a budget in the autumn of 2008, which for 2009 provided for a deficit of 1.8. In the first month it had exceeded 3% of GDP and in April 2009 the deficit was over 5%, according to our estimates. As we all know, the year 2009 ended with a deficit of 15.5%. These were your things, so the country was led to the destruction and the memorials. But what else does this famous inappropriate austerity hide? Obviously, you are trying to justify the 65 billion painful measures taken from 2010 to 2014. These were for you definitely the useful austerity. The wage cuts, pension cuts, redundancies, business padlocks, the launching of unemployment, the evacuation of young scientists abroad, the introduction of the underpaid wage, the reduction of the threshold, the pennant in hospitals, the ENPIA, the many taxes you have imposed, all of this was useful to you. It was the useful austerity of the New Democracy, the necessary adaptation to the collapse that you caused. A third and I'm coming to today. The aim of your account is, of course, to identify ours with your policies. You use the austerity, SYRIZA unjust austerity. So we're all the same. Unfortunately, however, for you, the country has come out of the memoranda and has drawn up a new development course, in fact rather than in the imagination and in the Zapia, with actions rather than words. The recovery is gradually reflected in the real economy and has ceased to be a pious desire, as was expressed in previous years by the memorial worshipers. Unemployment is falling. Exports are launching. The balance in the deletions and entries in the Chambers has been positive in recent years. A policy is being pursued which sets man as a priority. Unrighteousness, as with the successors of the 1998 ADP, with the five-year firefighters, with the "Help at Home", with the cleanliness workers, in the municipalities. So as long as you are looking for and looking for an agonizing account, we will return to our fellow citizens all that you have deprived them of with your policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u140	You were short too. Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes, which you so wished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u141	You should have come to the court, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u142	Half Greece is happy, Mr. Loverdos. Normally, it had to be all Greece, because we're talking about a Greek success.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u143	If you keep this up, we'll have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u144	Immediately afterwards, you have the floor, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u145	Some, like Mr. Kefaliannis, were drugged last night. It'll pass them, though. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago, SYRIZA, with bridal attacks on those who considered that they were standing in his way and on the easy road of populism and demagoguery, the easy way in the difficulties of the country, managed to divert the acceptance of a portion of the Greek people and the electorate and thus, with the support of the ANELs, as SYRIZANEL, started, one after the other, leaping into the dark, to use a term that comes from the victorious era. The cost of this period was to pass a second phase of crisis, an additional inappropriate memorandum and EUR 86 billion, such as the central banker of the country, Mr Stournaras, has shown the cost-accordingities of the “generation” negotiation of Tsipras - Varoufakis. The numbers are relentless. My colleague Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, special rapporteur, George Arvanitides, special rapporteur, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, our general rapporteur, who also invested politically in the language of the numbers and made an excellent criticism of government work, I think. The numbers are relentless. The European Commission and the IMF forecasted a high growth rate for the four years 2015-2018. What happened because of you? In 2015, instead of a 2.9% growth, we had a 0.3% recession.In 2016, instead of a 3.7% growth, we had a 0.2% recession. In 2017, instead of developing 3.5%, we had 1.5% growth. And for 2018, there was a projection of 3.3% and we had a growth of 2.1%, if the figures, which relate to growth rates, were finally closed. I'll testify eight paintings, all together so I won't be late. In addition, have the relevant ministers estimated what is the annual loss of the country's potential GDP? It's 58 billion euros. You, and indeed, exclusively, are those who turn as a public speech, supposedly, into the ruthless cries, caused the second phase of the economic crisis. We are the only country, from the countries that entered into a crisis, which took a second phase, for political reasons. And so, what prosperously was anticipated by the European Commission and the IMF. In 2015 we had 6 billion losses. Instead of EUR 191 billion, we had GDP of EUR 185 billion. In 2016 we had 13 billion euros lost, with the same logic. In 2017 we had 18 billion losses and this year we have 20 billion losses. Even if, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the growth targets for the period 2019-2022 are reached, even then the country will not reach forecasts for 2014. The figures are spoken again. The forecast for 2018 for GDP was EUR 212 billion. The forecast, as you shape your things and forecasts, for 2022 is 208 billion euros. These show that, even if all you say is right, when you predict, in 2022, the country will not reach where it could have arrived in 2018. I have no time to make more general references, as is common in the budget, talking about general issues. I cannot list one by one of your capital sins. However, I shall mention with a phrase about what you have been trying to do - and you are still trying - in the field of information, which thankfully the creation of Eleftherios Venizelos, with the first Presidencies of Constantine Racchivan, the Council of State has stopped you in 2016 and what has been done in the summer in Matti, which have not ceased to produce results and which you will be talking about before justice. I have no time to refer specifically to this. I have to live on budget issues. Your logic: fake - Robin Hood and supposedly. First, the Prime Minister applies it, but also the Minister of Finance. We take money from the people who have it and give it to the poor. That's a logical fake Robin Hood. You have crushed the middle class with completely anti-developing tax and tax interventions. I will give an example, ladies and gentlemen, of the very many things I have given to the National Representation, one which has brought me a protesting lawyer, according to whom, a lawyer par exile and a Council of State, fifty-nine years old, with a free profession income, namely his lawyer, forty-one euros - a net tax statement, because his customers are companies and nothing can be hidden - has already acted as a tax collector, having naturally collected the VAT of 9,500 euros and yielding it. He pays 9,000 euros an advance tax due to his customers being corporations. It pays 5,000 euros, a sum of 2,500 euros and a contribution of solidarity, at least 12,000 euros office expenses, of which many go to public advantage and still has no accurate picture, who will be the income tax after the liquidation, plus HISPIA, municipal fees and others. Three quarters of their income, these people render to the state, according to your logic. You're not Robin Hood. You are violators of the Constitution, which obliges analogue tax equality and, at the same time, enemies of labour and development. What did you do? Here, the experience of dozens of people from us also speaks. The proposal to hit the middle class and distribute our incomes has been made from the very beginning. This is a policy, the most extreme neoliberal. You're hitting the middle class. You take people down from there to the low-paid or helpless to live and distribute allowances. This is a policy that since 2009, as soon as the country has entered into the roaming, we have been offered an alternative and refused it. Those of you who have lived in close proximity then can assure you of that. You have completely obeyed this political direction, in this economic direction, and you have done so in the light of the instructions. The point that your policy is not at all in favour of the low layers is the relevant tables, which arise from your budget for the increases in indirect taxes. Mr Kutsukouko, have you ever received an answer to the registration that you requested in committee - and I was, quite specifically, the list of tax revenue? You didn't call. And you won't take, Mr. Koutsuko, even though I was ahead, when they promised you that this situation, this painting will be tabled. We had therefore reduced indirect taxes within the crisis by 7.1 percentage points as a percentage of tax revenue and you have, from 2015 until now, increased it by 6.3 percentage points as a percentage again of tax revenue. We had a 7.1 reduction, you had an increase of 6.3. And don't ask me where we found it. Looking through your rapporteur's report and the numbers, we record these numbers. If you think that an antenna is falling out, give the tables, as Mr Koutsoukos asks, at least we should speak politically on the same figures as everyone else. You're talking about overcrowding. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said so many times in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in plenary on a specific subject, such as insurance. Is it true that surpluses result from overtaxation? You confess. Is it true that you have subordinated the Public Investment Programme? Mr Koutsoukos said for 1,3 billion euros. Is it true that there is a reduction in tax refunds by EUR 750 million? Is it true that 6 billion of the overcrowded 7 billion arises from accounts seizures? Is that true? It's coming up. It results from the relevant situations, which the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue presents every three months, EUR 6 billion from there. Think of these numbers, before you are bragging off the Step of the House, you of the majority. Here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am relatively experienced and I know how to deal with matters when I really ask. I was impressed by this very large increase in the number of debtors and the amount of debtors to EVO in 2014, when we also delivered the resulting number, six-fold debtors, three times the amount due for your day. And I asked the presence of many Ministers yesterday, Mr. Petropoulos, why is that number like that? I didn't add criticism, I just asked. And he answered me, because the CRL, the creation of Mr. Brutsi, had not included all the funds that went to the FFCA in 2014 and thus the numbers are filled. There's no increase, it tells me, there's just supplementation, it's statistical difference. I did not react because, Mr President, as with Mrs Zorba, I am asking, but it is the answer that she is today that you refused to tell me how much your predecessor has cost specific monuments and you referred to against costing. All together, we are against costing, but only in your days, you have costed antiquities. Yesterday's Minister asked me what I told you. But it turns out, why is it doing? As a problem with a debtor to EVA in 2015, they do not immediately record it, heterogeneously during its registration, take it in 2017 and say "old". They are not saying that the "old" is mentioned in 2015 - they are pushing it back - that it is allegedly mentioned in our period. Only when the new leadership takes over in this ministry will the figures be made clear. I will give you two data from workers in the sector: seven hundred thousand debtors made one million four hundred thousand four hundred and from 22 billion debts became 34 billion debts. The Minister didn't tell the truth yesterday. The truth, however, arises from numbers. And when you fall, these numbers will be known to the Greek citizens, because you hide them today. I have no time to talk about the Greek, to talk about symbolic and very important major investments. I'll make one more reference to a number in due course. You received 74 billion - many colleagues have said so - at 103 billion we are today. And at the opposite time, you took 6.6 billion to eliminate these public debts. And all of a sudden, we have 2.6. I ask more experienced colleagues what happened? Did they overshadow these or created automatically and so quickly 2.6 debts? For all this, you must give some very specific answers. And for the stability of the banks, which you are talking about here, we had a loss of EUR tens of billion from your policy, Varoufakis - Tsipras - and from the returns, which result in the normality of the sum, it was not even equal to the amount, but is still around EUR 35 billion. These people didn't trust the system, the way you've shaped it. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, I was very impressed, and I took it, the position of my colleague, Mr Scandalidis. I am also concerned that I have expressed in my only speech in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs when discussing the draft budget and not the draft budget law. I said we were concerned about the year 2019. We are concerned that the European environment is not a good thing. We are concerned that what is happening in Italy, Turkey, what is happening in France is creating economic and political problems which do not make the environment pleasant and positive, in which the country is trying to raise its head. We are concerned, because the course of the banks' shares leads to very problematic situations, and therefore economic and political conclusions are very unpleasant. And also in the financial system, even if it had money for transfers, the persecution of its executives, which you have caused, makes every bank executive reluctant to sign. I understand them. But this cannot be about the economy and its development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. We, too, put our concerns on the way out of the market. I don't prejudge. I hope and hope that when the country comes to the markets, we also have a relevant information on how you intend to come out, I hope and hope that the country's exit to the markets will have positive results. It suits everyone. One of us cannot say "we wish you to fail there", because your failure will concern the entire Greek society. It is already justified that the conclusions of third parties outside Greece, that Greece is hesitant to come out, is afraid to come out because the interest rates on government bonds on the public bond market, which is the only market from which a state gets money, are very disappointing. We also do not see what we need, namely the shocking growth rate. To cope with excessive surpluses you are obliged to provoke with the facilitation you will give the economy - we do not have a state economy here, but we can squeeze the state's hug on the economy - with economic policies to favour shocking growth. Neither is that. And instead of demanding and testing all of us on this criterion, how the political system even after all the misery you have done can find a course of understanding between the big and the smaller parties, you follow the headlines and the various political divisions. You continue on the easy way with which you have begun. We are not, Mr President, and I am closing down, prepared to contribute to the adoption of this draft law, the draft law on the budget of 2019. We are voting against. The most important thing, however, beyond this vote, which is self-evident, is something else. These are our serious concerns which are responsible, serious, aware of the situation that the country is going through, the need for a next day, the people's expectation of regularity and dignity, aware of all this, we are on the part of those people and those policies that are concerned. We are critical and concerned and we are finally waiting for some of the speeches of those responsible today, just before their final fall and the elections were defeated, some responsible posts at the National Representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on the state budget is always a very good opportunity to discuss the real situation of the economy and society, but not, in general and vaguely, but on facts. In fact, on data not derived from opposition elements, but from evidence submitted by the government itself. Fortunately, I think that in the republics this data does not change and should not change depending on the party identity of each other or possibly on the wishful desires each of us can have. For whatever inaccuracies may be heard, however misinformation is produced from various aspects, I think, that the harsh reality cannot change. And the reality in the republics can be captured. The only thing that reflects this budget for 2019 is how inexpensive the left rhetoric of the government has been and how empty the supposed social sensitivity has been over the last four years. In fact, the government by an oral Prime Minister has recently informed us that its policy is distinguished by class. So we take it as a presumption that we are dealing, first of all, with a class budget. And, of course, as a class budget and a class policy, I imagine that it has in mind the reduction of EUR 20 to 60 and the provision of allowances of EUR 200 to 300. Let us see, however, ladies and gentlemen, if this class social policy really is reflected in the budget itself. In the past few days, the European Statistical Office published data on social benefits in the Member States of the European Union. According to the European Statistical Committee data, social expenditure in Greece accounts for 26.6% of GDP. As far as the unemployed are concerned, Greece only pays 3.7% of the social costs to support them when in Spain, a country with a very high unemployment problem, this is more than twice as much as 8.1%. As far as the disabled and health are concerned, expenditure is limited to 26.4% of the Community average, for example in the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union being 10 units higher. As regards expenditure on housing and social exclusion, Greece devotes only 0.9% of all social expenditure, which, of course, I will not compare it with 4.9% of the Community average, but I can compare it with 1.6% - almost double - which our neighbour Bulgaria devotes for the corresponding expenditure. So you realise, ladies and gentlemen, that not only socially sensitive or classic, as the Prime Minister has appointed him, is not the budget, but, respectively, this entire account of allegedly redressing social injustices, which have suffered these layers in recent years, falls into the void. I would also remind you that this entire account has been built on certain specific data, which are also not disputed. When you received, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the country's governance - previous speakers said so - the delays in both funds and tax as a whole were around EUR 75 billion. Now that 2019, after four years of SYRIZA governance, you have added around 60 billion euros, which shows that you have practically ejected the middle and medium strata. And I think it's clear and it's something that's not questioned. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] And of course, all this class policy, according to the Prime Minister's words, is to offer social dividends, contracts and simulations and, of course, to exaggerate - I repeat - the backbone of the Greek economy, the backbone of Greek society, which is the small and medium-sized ones, that is about 90% of the Greek population. And unfortunately, at the moment, we hear many colleagues talking about a virtual reality Greece, because if anyone walks out in society, it will see that in fact Greece, which you are trying to present, does not exist. It's a famous left sucess story. You want to have in the run-up to the election period, which has officially started, a rhetoric, a narrative, so that you too have something to say to the voters. I remind you of a very basic element - I think - which may be the most powerful of all. A few days ago an OECD report had come out. Do you know what the OECD report says? It says that only in 2019 the incomes of Greek households will reach the level of 2014, not 2007 or 2008, i.e. the pre-crisis, but 2014. So it tells you in simple words that four years plus 2019, that is, four and a half years of governance SYRIZA, actually removed the country's development perspective, removed income from the households and we will return to the level we were in 2014. I think that this best illustrates the picture that Greek economy and the Greek society are really experiencing at the moment. You will allow me to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with an observation that I did not intend to make, but I have heard many colleagues mention and I certainly cannot omit it. I have already heard my dear colleague Mr Manda, referring to the issue of national issues, in reply to Mrs Vulture, saying that we need to have a sober dialogue on national issues and that we are wrongly raising the crowns. That, ladies and gentlemen, was a good thing, if it were just a year ago. In a few months' time, when the Prespecies Agreement is ratified in the Greek Parliament, we will not be able to change the text, we will not have the opportunity to discuss the substance of the text. They are coming, you have a text that you have agreed as a government, and each of us will be asked to reject or agree with it. But let us go to the essence of an addition that has been made to the text. Of course the fact that at the moment the combination of the concession of Macedonian language and Macedonian nationality leads to fatality in the recognition of Macedonian ethnicity and therefore the road is opening, unfortunately, for claims and commandments from the neighbouring state. It is a given that we will unfortunately find it before us no matter how blind. We are hitting the bell right now, and we have said it is a nationally harmful agreement, and here in fact there are no different legal interpretations. Legal interpretation is very specific. We will have the opportunity to discuss this and when the agreement comes to Parliament. It may be an unpleasant thing for you, but unfortunately you are paving the way for Macedonian alutism and for acknowledging a so-called Macedonian minority. We'll find it in front of us. I would add something else, Mr President: I have often heard SYRIZA's hug with a extreme right-wing rhetoric. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that our party - and I am proud to belong to this party - did what was institutionally right, so that this extreme right-wing format called Golden Dawn could be fought. On the contrary, I would remind you that you hand-held the previous Samara government. You manually were in the 2015 referendum and you took pictures with them, after the invitation of Mr. Kammenos, went to Kastelorizo. In fact, I would remind you that at that time the movement of "53+" was talking about the laundry of the Golden Dawn, when some of the colleagues from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks went to Kastelorizo with Mr. Kammenos to take pictures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, too. Mr Psychogios, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin my speech by also signing the resolution against violence against women presented by my colleague from Corinthia by Mrs Theleritis. We also welcome today's mobilization at 6 p.m. for the murder of the student in Rhodes, Helen Topaloudi. Ladies and gentlemen, after a hard decade, we are coming today with a state budget for the first time an expansionist. Because it is so important that the designation "extensive" should in other cases have a negative sign, at least on the international political scene. It has a positive sign here, because it will also illustrate social and, in practice, this different mix of policy that we are bringing. The change in the budgetary policy mix that we are now able to propose after the end of the programmes, but which we have tried to do in the memoranda with the parallel programme, will also bring about a change in the distortions and wounds mentioned above. And how are these captured? With the 30% reduction in contributions of free professionals, self-employed and farmers from 1-1-2019, with the gradual reduction of the income tax on legal persons from 29% to 25%, with the reduction of 1% per year, with the grant of insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-five years, with the strengthening of the "Help at Home" programme with over three thousand two hundred recruitments. Of course, we must not forget that we have succeeded in preventing the unfair and burdensome measure of the pension cut imposed by the IMF in its second assessment. Of course, the fact that we are also giving social dividends this year, that we are abolishing the tax on wine, that we are paying the retrospectively, that we are reintroducing collective bargaining and collective agreements and the imminent increase in minimum wages by abolishing the subordinate. So, ladies and gentlemen, in all areas, we are trying to have at the heart of our human policy, its needs and its rights. In this context, the Greek Government has demonstrated with its initiatives that this position is an absolute priority for it and for the refugee - immigration. Today, almost alone in a Europe that has darkened dangerously from the clouds of right-wing, anti-immigrant, xenophobic, anti-popular policies, we are striving to promote solidarity, humanity and integration, but also respect for international law. And all this without overlooking the difficulties, the delays, the obstacles and the bad conditions that continue and remain in some structures on the islands, without, of course, moving towards a strong decongestion in recent times. We are also not saying that we are doing everything well, knowing that steps have been taken that are very important both in legislation and in education, access to health, work and social welfare. But let us see what words the Civic Opposition used by its rapporteur, Mr Stakoura, by speaking of the refugee - immigration - to the SYRIZA Government? He talked about inability, ideality and opacity. So let's go see one of those words. Is it incompetence when in 2015 with the research and rescue that took place at sea and safe inland transport, over a million people went to Greek territory and to the rest of Europe? Is the Greek Government's inability to close borders by your own allies and to convert Greece into a storeroom of souls? Or is it incapacitated by the Armed Forces and Engineering in particular, who set up the structures in no time at all? Let's see the idea. Is the Geneva Treaty, ladies and gentlemen, ideal, which provides that every person who comes to Greek territory has the right to request asylum and to consider his international protection? Or is the establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy, which a colleague of yours called inappropriate, causing problems? Finally, if it is ideal that we do not have citizens of the First, Second and Third category, we really are ideological, because we put man in the center without asterisks. Now let's go to the opacity, which has become candy on your part lately. The Chief of Staff Response has even arrived from this Step to refer to OLAF's conclusion - fire over the Greek Government's mismanagement of funds. But what was that all about? With vulgar titles we have seen this finding - fire and oh - the miracle within the main text of the publications was not mentioned anywhere by the Greek Government, but by the European Asylum Support Office, EASO - which you know is supposed to be better than us - in which it found some irregularities. Therefore, not even from your dear Instruments our government is involved anywhere. But it's your favorite game to throw mud into the fan. The most characteristic example, of course, is your constant references to the vast sum of 1.6 billion euros, which the Greek state is supposed to have taken for the management of the refugee, despite all our repeated responses with official figures. What I just want to stress is that we are not talking about EUR 1.6 billion disbursement to the Greek state, but about a total budget of EUR 1.6 billion. So from these actions at the moment EUR 1.41 billion has been approved by DG HOME, only some of them have been disbursed and go to the Greek state, to international organisations, etc. There are also EUR 650 million allocated by DG ECHO directly to international organisations and NGOs, without being able to make this money subject to any control by us. And since here we are talking about the state budget, you should know that the budget of the Ministry of Migration Policy in 2019 will amount to EUR 41.3 million and EUR 40 million from the Public Investment Programme to cover its multi-faceted needs of services and actions. However, I would also like to refer to something else, ladies and gentlemen, because, yes, the limits have been exceeded many times in this Chamber these days, but one cannot remain unanswered. I think that my colleague from the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios, did not hesitate to link up to Gabels with that government. First of all, I appeal for the rest of the budget to all parties in the democratic arch to oppose arguments rather than such petitions or other verbal attacks within Parliament towards our colleagues. You must also be very careful - and I hope that you do not all embrace what Mr Athanasios said - when you refer to the party, the parliamentary group and the government of SYRIZA in such a way that they are made up of people who have fought for decades on the road, the parliament and now the government against fascism in all its forms. They have been imprisoned, exiled, stigmatized, and they and their families suffer for their ideas. We will continue to serve these principles consistently, when the central line of the New Democracy - and not individual colleagues - is pouring more and more water into the far right mill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too. Mr. Stergiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. The government, as a prologue, presents the state budget which not only incorporates all the anti-grassroots measures of previous years and the targets for bloody surpluses, but it also loads new burdens on the people, while at the same time hitting big capital with new privileges. So for another year, workers will be the biggest victims of this class budget at their expense. Because the budget is classic, but to the benefit of the business groups of big capital. To ask a few questions: What is it that prevents, however, and does not even satisfy the workers' basic needs today? Why would the new generation live and live worse than the previous generation and life turn back decades? Why not all employees with a fixed daily working time and a reduced working time due to the evolution of science? Why not enjoy free upgraded health, education, welfare? Why not have sufficient time for rest, entertainment, to enjoy culture and sport? Why can’t they take a vacation with their families? Will any of this be satisfied with the dividend of the maximum five hundred euros that you give and celebrate to households with incomes of five, six, seven, eight or nine thousand euros? Oh, no. This and many other 'why' concerns workers. And we invite them to listen to us. The obstacle to all of these "because" is the organization of the economy and its system, which operates on the basis of the main criterion and the profit-oriented and not the fulfilment of all the above needs. They are business groups, industrialists, shipowners who have the keys to the economy in their hands and are loading the people for the sake of their profitability a life full of suffering, poverty and impoverishment. It's a system that rotates and sacrifices human lives for its profitability, resulting in 10% living in fat and 90% fighting to get through. The JRC tells our people to question in the first place and reject what you say to them as salvation, with which it will not even see in the Second Presence. To touch on our proposal that goes completely in line with the times. So what? Enjoy this people, which produces to have a life of smile and eyes filled with happiness. This can only be done when all the economic tools are put at the disposal and at the service of our people, by socialising the concentrated means of production, when all the wealthy sources become social assets, thus releasing the great potential of our country today and which, with scientific centralized planning, give strength and impetus to all sectors of the economy, thereby eliminating the anarchy to production that characterizes the capitalist system and giving birth to these deep economic crises that our people pay for. This popular authority can truly eliminate all the suffering of our people. Gentlemen of the government, you say you managed to lower unemployment to 18%, while you received it to 26%. Apart from competing with New Democracy and PASOK who has brought more misery to workers and the unemployed, let us look at the reality and the elements of yours. Firstly, do you not know that five hundred thousand workers are working abroad and not counting on numbers? Do you not know that elastic forms of employment break bones in every workplace, as it remains in full power and has been strengthened by you all the anti-labour relationships, because that requires competitiveness and profitability of industrialists? With your own figures, do you not know that 45% of recruitment is full-time and 55% flexible forms of employment? So that's why you're celebrating? What can we say? For the unemployed, what do you look after? A year of donation with the lousy 363 euros a month and then let the man die in his bed. The result of this policy is only 10% of the unemployed being subsidised. But you are subsidising industrialists with warm money to hire workers with wages miserable. To them you have money. Not for the unemployed. At the same time you have served in a fairy tale that you are raising the minimum wage. The previous speaker of SYRIZA said so. But let's see how and how. You have triggered the Brutsi Act - which you have done yourself, and you have denounced it otherwise - with which the minimum wage will not be the result of a racing claim for the trade unions with the BSE, but will be determined by a ministerial decision, taking into account only the profitability and competitiveness of businesses, as BSE says, rather than the needs of the workers. Now, how long are you going to get him up? According to how you leak 20-30 euros yourself a month. You're too busy for the workers! You are also celebrating that you are reintroducing collective agreements. What exactly do you bring back? Let us say that a trade union is signing a collective labour agreement with the corresponding sectoral employers' organization. Firstly, have you not shielded beforehand by legislating that, in order to become compulsory a collective agreement, the employer organisation should voluntarily provide the Ministry of Labour with a register of members proving that it covers 51% of the industry? We're asking. Who's gonna do it? If it's optional. They're gonna take their eyes off themselves? Secondly, in all branches over half the workers, do you not know that they either work in flexible forms or are they rented to contractors? Are these covered by collective agreements? Oh, no. One example is the tourism sector, where the collective labour agreement only applies to 10% of workers, since fifteen different forms of employment apply. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. We will only say that you are mocking the workers inconsistently. If you really wanted to bring the minimum wage back, the collective agreements, the abolition of all other laws, you have nothing but to vote on the proposal for a law of the five hundred trade unions that we have tabled to you. Really, where do you get that? Two years we've testified to you. We and the Pan-Competitive Front shall not cease claiming the reintroduction of all workers' rights. Gentlemen of the Government and the other parties you support with the bounces of this barbaric system, you have it Gospel and you worship it - capitalism is called - you know that. I'll see you in particular to the workers. In the name of fair growth, competitiveness and profitability it has created horns in slavery, resulting in thousands of accidents at work with dozens dead. In particular, six thousand five-fifths of occupational accidents, seventy-fifths of which were fatal, were carried out in 2016. I mean, every five days we had a worker dead. For 2017 and 2018 leaving, there are no elements of the RCF. This alone, therefore, confirms that the capital you all faithfully serve kills and does not even count on the worker's own life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. This development of capital gains, which closes the future in life and human development, presents it as a way out of the crisis, of grave bearers. There has never been a fair growth and a fair distribution in the territory of the capitalist economy and in times of crisis. The aim of all of you, especially the government, is to make our people accomplices, make him silence, to have him waited, to tolerate living in poverty and impoverishment, waiting to see some crumbling that you give him at the end of the year, about 300 euros. But as long as the economy is designed to serve the profits rather than satisfying our needs, our people will not see a white day. We therefore call on our workers, our people, to close their ears to the old and new saviors and always to guide their own modern needs to fight together with the class trade unions, colluding with the line of our party, to regain everything they have been stolen and to pave the way for the definitive discharge of their suffering, and to overthrow this rotten exploitation of the economy, which gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, war and refugee. Confuse with us, the JRC, which we have the only proposal for their benefit, while holding the keys to the economy and power in their hands. We call on all workers on 18 December, that is Tuesday, to take part in the rallying of the Pan-Attagonistic Front against the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 3rd General High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Diaras, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for seven minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to the JRC colleague, who has just spoken, that we, too, have the same concern for workers, for workers, for accidents, for poverty, for misfortune, simply have to resolve them in today's circumstances and, if you like, to plan together the changes to be made to the social and economic system for the future. However, we must see them today within the commitments of the country we have, the debts, the neighbours, the dangers, within all of this we must move. I will start with some of the budget items for the Ministry of Environment and Energy, what it is in 2018 in relation to 2019. We have a 55% reduction in expenditure on fixed assets, more than twofold, from EUR 5 million to EUR 11 million of returns to the Greek Recycling Agency, EEAN, from revenues resulting from the application of the ministerial decision to reduce consumption of plastic bags. We have a budget of EUR 17.5 million for the transfer to electricity providers, for the granting of a discount to domestic consumers in the region of Western Macedonia and the municipality of Megalopolis, Arcadia, due to the operation of lignite mines and power plants. We have a budget of EUR 6.2 million for forest protection costs. We have a quadruple of funds related to the grant of management agencies for protected areas, from EUR 450,000 to EUR 2.2 million. Behind the numbers, ladies and gentlemen, people's lives are youth unemployment, the situation in the health system, life on the planet, human culture. All this needs to be considered when we discuss the figures and the economy, but also the budget every year. The debate on the budget is an opportunity to analyse the political plans of the parties for the economy and not just for it, that is to say for society. A systematic quotation of the parties' proposals and a documentation would understand the differences in the political programmes in order to inform the citizens and put them in their vote. Unfortunately, however, most of the Members' positions are not on this basis, but we become commentators, we put Macedonian in the debate and everything that comes to us. Our country, like every country, needs a strategic plan for the economy and the organisation of society, with a view to the future. The circumstances change rapidly. The data of the problem define the approach and direction of economic planning, in the long term, in the medium term and in the short term. We usually stand in the short term. The changes in the budgets relate to the orientation of the available financial resources, fiscal policy and, in general, to the priorities of the political choices. New conditions are being shaped. We are talking about recovering the country's independence and we do not identify the rehab steps to be taken for a long-term plan for each year and every sector. For example, today our country is importing about 75% of energy. From the international conventions on climate change - Paris Agreement, etc. - as well as the speed of exhaustion of oil, lignite and light-gas stocks on the planet, in 2050, ladies and gentlemen, 90% -95% of the energy produced in our country by Renewable Energy Sources. In other words, no home should or should not be able to be heated at that time with oil and light. So how much has the country's transition plan been discussed in the so-called 'carbonisation' in the energy sector? How has the absolute need to adapt cities to this objective been identified? How much have we understood the new data for which scientists assure us? When we have an increase of global warming by one and a half degrees Celsius, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will have in the town centers five and a half degrees Celsius in summers and the energy required for refreshment in summer will be multiple in these areas from the other green areas and from what it is today. How much, then, has it been understood that we should greenen the cities and especially the town centers, such as Athens? But greening means spreading green in the city, as well as green trails with green stripes of high width. How has it also been understood that the energy rehabilitation plan is combined with a redesign of the city for the resilience to high temperatures, but also to earthquakes and that we must take serious care of the old buildings? I say this because at the same time we need to solve at least three problems, namely to find space and soil to plant trees, to acquire more common space in the densely populated parts of the city, to upgrade the old buildings, of which were built before 1980, they do not even have elementary insulations. We must also address the problem of the static resistance of buildings to major earthquakes. At the same time, if we solve these problems, we are also giving the builders, engineers, craftsmen, who are, for the great majority today, unemployed. We are talking about buildings which were built before 1980 with the old earthquake regulation, while at the same time we also have a reduction in the strength of the armed concrete, which starts after forty or fifty years to lose its strength. Many times we talk about the energy upgrading of buildings and we ignore the other factor, namely the resistance of buildings, where we invest money for energy upgrading. But can we strengthen the foundations or frames of buildings in the continuous building system that one building sticks to another and usually at different depths are their foundations? Do we have to understand the need for a long-term programme for our cities in 2030, 2040 and 2050, for redesigning the cities that will provide for the withdrawal of buildings, while solving all social problems? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like to see a tolerance, Mr President. This plan for cities in 2030, in 2040 and 2050, with intermediate stages of implementation, we are planning at the Ministry and we have launched public dialogue on this. The Government presented last month, in November 2018, the National Energy and Climate Plan. The plan is in the context of the international climate change conditions. The objectives for each sector I mentioned, such as buildings, transport, Renewable Energy Sources, are presented in detail. We have so far been within the objectives set by the European Commission. I would also like to say something about fair growth and the survival plan. As far as so-called fair growth is concerned, although the word growth with the usual conception is unjustly term ecologically, in order to be fair, it is not enough to share today the wealth produced fairer - that must be done - but at the same time not to be fair, it must not be unfair to future generations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, growth, even with a fair distribution of wealth, with the characteristics of consumerism, as we live in the Western world, has an ecological footprint on two and a half planets for the level of life of the Western world. Unfortunately, humanity walks without a survival plan and the dominant political system does not look far. He is interested in developing with inventional features, which brings profits and consumerism, with concurrent poverty and misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, too. Please Mrs Kozobol, SYRIZA MP, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last three years the government has been called upon to manage the country’s finances in a very bad situation that one can only liken that of World War II. The KINAL Parliamentary spokesman spoke earlier on forecasts not confirmed in the calculations. I would like to ask the following question: did the 2014 forecast for 1.7% growth become 0.2% and that is why the SYRIZA Government is to blame? Already, then, the whole problem was derailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u158	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u159	That's right, Mr. Comrade. You're politicizing with predictions. Don't make fun of the world. Let's go down. So he took over to manage the country's finances, without funding, with no tools for stabilisation, with a vulnerable banking system and society broken down. The choices were minimal. The loan was made on very difficult terms, because the credibility of the country was lost and therefore the loan contracts laid strict conditions which we had to comply with. The other solution was to leave the eurozone, with the debts of the country remaining in the euro and intact. Of course, it was not only the economic cost huge, but it was also the social cost in this case, not those who, in the meantime, had speculated and earned their capital abroad, but those who would have seen their wages and pensions unpaid the other day, for the small depositors who would have seen their testimonies evaporate, who would have seen the destruction in their lives complete. The difficult path has been chosen and today we are in a position to make a three-year account and to feel fair. So the 2019 budget that we are discussing today was designed in other terms. Both its training process and its content mark the country's course to normality after ten years. The will was there. With coordinated efforts and not randomly, the country's budgetary figures allow us safely to have a new mix of fiscal policy aimed at strengthening households' available income, supporting sustainable development and shielding social protection. The 2019 budget therefore includes measures that have already been adopted and which are alleviate, permanent reduction in tax burdens and social security contributions for households and businesses, measures aimed at boosting the social protection and employment of young people. We have seen the individual budget areas in the social state increased. We have seen the same thing in health, but also in education traits, which we have received on a degressive path. In fact, with those standards it was to have reached 1.6% of the budget in 2018 and we see it more than doubled. I do not want to go into detail. The other Members have said so. Of course, we also see enhanced social solidarity. I would, for example, like to focus on a difficult area which is not very pleasant with anti-crime policy. In this area, there have been real divisions. The policy of this government has focused on the reintegration of the detainees. And here with detention stores that are scattered and in nowhere, unreservedly structured and other built hundred and fifty years more for other purposes than those used today, the government made interventions. They have covered spaces and thus created structures, second opportunity schools, spaces for creative employment. He did IK in most of these stores and so many are watching - refrigerational, cooking, other specialties - so that the prisoner can return to society, to work. That would be good for him, but also good for society. In the end, it will also be security for society. I failed to say something very important that has already been launched since 2008, which Mr. Dendias was then Minister of Justice, namely the integration of the ESS's health services, which was not because you were killing on the economic track and which is now a fact. The relevant ministerial decision and with all the financial difficulty this has already been published in the Government Journal of the European Communities, the training of prisoners and with little resources. Now in the 2019 budget there is for the first time a change of structure. For the first time, the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy has its own budget, amounting to 134 million as against 127 last year, mainly for wage costs. So we have been able to do so, and for many years it had not been done, to recruit penitentiary officials. The last time the penitentiary shops were sent was with those who were made available by the Municipal Police. And now there have been competitions in this regard. Also, it will improve medical care, doctors, staffing and more so not to mention them in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the measures announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki has subjected the New Democracy to a great test. As a result, the announcements were made before the elections and were not implemented. This is where we have the opposite. The election programme of September 2015, not only was implemented, but it was overtaken and now there is no greater political elitism for the leadership of the New Democracy and those who had invested in the account of catastrophe than to vote for measures that were Gypsies begging not to be implemented. In fact, the New Democracy has formally admitted that it has speeded up its programme to adapt to these measures. When they saw the stories of destruction one after another falling apart, the leaderships of the New Democracy, and also of KINAL, in front of the obvious deadlock, attempt to deceive the government's measures, evaluate them as secondary and render them under the term "parathology", to include them in another weak, customer relationship, since 2019 is already an election year, just as the series of major corruption cases, to which they have been involved governmentally and non-officially of the two other major parties, PASOK and New Democracy. The right thing would be to list the New Democracy programme very well and to explain exactly how it would attract the investment it is doing and what it would do to insurance, to the education that is doing in the field of cost limitations. The Government's measures are not a customer's provision. One by one, such as retrospectives, pension cuts, reduction of insurance contributions, the reduction of insurance contributions for young people, the abolition of excise duties on wine, they are clearly socially and developmental, they aim to restore social cohesion which has been severely affected by the years of the crisis and to stimulate consumption. After destroying her last account, the New Democracy returned to her favorite refuge, disaster. And what we haven't heard these days from Members of the New Democracy and Opposition. Until one of our colleagues called this year's budget a straitjacket. And no worse! Ladies and gentlemen, no one listens to you, no one believes you, because our weapon is our truth and our actions, not the words. Our weapons are the lives of the citizens who are slowly finding their properness and who are slowly, but constantly, getting better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr Consolas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that your works and your days, your words of truth, are reflected in your actions and that is what the Greek people finds. Honestly, it is wonderable why the distortion of reality is reflected in almost all the speakers of the government party. I have listened with caution - as you would have heard - to the rapporteurs of the New Democracy, Mr Stavoura, Mr Besiropoulos, the Minister. You heard them all. Uh, this position, yours, is completely unrealistic and is on the other side of what New Democracy has been saying in Parliament these days. Along with the impulse that the government has recently submitted and announced, it shows the image of a government in its last days. That's the truth. Mr. Tsipras is practically organising his departure. We say, then, that the sooner it leaves, the better for the place and you need to understand it. If you have understood it, it may still have a prospect of salvation and development. Because in advance he has drugged the way - what I am saying to you - of the next government. Why am I saying that? By committing the country to primary surpluses up to 2022 of 3.5% and 2.2% by 2060 and giving the public property to creditors for ninety years. And you do not have the courage, Minister of Finance, to answer the question of the New Democracy, many times now, which are the properties you have given. Will you finally do it? Mr. Tsipras signed what they've been putting forward for these four years. That's why we're here. These signatures are paid very expensively and the country pays them. The account opened with a painful and unnecessarily memorable memorandum, with twenty-nine new taxes - the President of the New Democracy submitted them in his speech and Mr Vesiropoulos - and measures of EUR 9.9 billion. Who forgets that? It continued with the breakdown of the banking system and the impoverishment of the middle class and peaked with painful and unacceptable obligations and concessions to national issues, as you heard from previous speakers and Mr Kefalayannis. You know, Minister, and Mr Ministers, I, too, come the President, Mr Kremastinos, from the Dodecanese, the beginning of Europe. Mr. Loverdos knows very well. I've heard of his position. There the heart of Greece beats, there is the real Greece, where we live every day in our neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u162	And not just Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u163	Of course, that's right, too, Samos. There, then, you are living Turkey's aggressions, its aggression. The answer to this aggression, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I see that you have been reluctant to do so, not to be reduced - requires deterrent power, but also a serious and credible governmental approach to matters. How serious, however, can it be a government which announces the expansion of water to 12 miles to the Ionian Sea, without previously taking into account the reaction of the neighbouring country and turning back in front of the Turkish reactions? Is this a serious government? Does the government not realize that by announcing the extension of 12 miles to the Ionian Sea and with the ruthless retreat it has made following Turkey's announcement of governmental factors, it is essentially legalising Turkey's objections to special conditions in the Aegean Sea? How serious and reliable is a government that turns the Aegean islands, the most sensitive area, into a place where illegal immigrants and refugees are caught? I have heard a colleague from the House earlier judge the position of Mr Stakoura in relation to immigration. We are therefore calling on you, ladies and gentlemen, in the Eastern Aegean, to see what is happening with the refugee camps. And since Mrs Papanatsiou is here, let me take all due respect, Minister, to ask you the following question: Really, what will you do with the reduced VAT rates for the five islands affected by the refugee problem? Are you going to prolong? 'Cause in fifteen days, Minister, it ends this measure. You did not accept the New Democracy amendment. You have not accepted the signature of the Members of the New Democracy for the Aegean for twice. If you are prolonging, you must indirectly admit that the migration problem exists. I'm telling you there really is. If you do not prolong it, what will you offer as countermeasures, the so-called countermeasures, on these islands? As far as the honourable Members are concerned, I would suggest that they ask Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Lero, Kos what happens to tourism in August. Mr. Tsipras said that tourism has increased in Lesvos. It's probably counting the immigrants. Because the Bank of Greece and INSETE provide other data. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the government only knows one way to divide the citizens. He's fed up with the divisional speech, looking for a reason of existence through him. It distorts reality in an outrageous way, but in particular in a way that underestimates citizens' intelligence. The exit from the memorandum and the country's return to normality is linked to two conditions - we have heard it here from the Qualified Anti-Civilisation - the de-escalation of overtaxation and the policy of austerity and, above all, the exit from the markets. Unfortunately, none of the two conditions are met today, since the frenzy of overtaxation continues, and the country cannot come out of the market. Mr. Loverdos asked you that. Will you dare go out on the markets? Let's see what happens, because loan rates are forbidden and move at high levels and at the same time the markets don't trust the country, they don't trust this government, as Greek citizens don't trust it. You have lost the social majority, as well as those who want to invest in the country do not trust you. Investments have gone to fire, and none of them have come. Two years ago, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government passed a development law. Two years later, no investment has been made in these provisions of this law. And as the head of New Democracy tourism, I have the honour of serving the party, I have the right to make a few references. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. You also know that all the qualitative indicators confirm that despite the triumph of the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism breaks one record after another, however this arrival of the visitors is not consistent with the revenues. The Bank of Greece says so, the independent authorities say so. The qualitative indicators confirm that the increase in the number of visitors is not translated with a corresponding increase in revenue at all levels. There are findings of research such as this INSETE, which shows that per capita expenditure per tourist this year is at 522 euros, whereas in 2017, that is, now, it is far from the distant 2005 that was 750 euros. In other words, the government is being arranged for visitors, when almost ten years after the per capita expenditure is far behind. Similar findings are found in other qualitative indicators, such as the average stay per visitor. Also, the nights were reduced. All the above, the government does not understand. Greece, as a tourist destination, has a problem of competitiveness and the people of the market say so, people of tourism. The taxes imposed by the Government on tourism since the summer of 2015 have had a negative impact on our tourism. Basically, the government targeted tourism with new taxes. The VAT on the catering has gone up. The accommodation has gone from 6.5% to 13%. The night spent with the new tax has become problematic, it is a capital tax. I would also remind you that ENPIA has created a huge problem for small tourist businesses and rooms, while in Italy, Spain, Portugal, we are talking about rates of 6%, 9%. As a result of all this, the indirect taxes. For revenues from indirect taxes - which are the most unfair and costly of low incomes for consumption - are higher than the revenues from the direct taxes you have imposed, Minister. With these logics, we're not going anywhere. In conclusion, Mr President, if we believe in a prospect of growth, we must see the declining tax rates directly, we must see a new spatial planning. The country is made possible if it has hope and prospects through a new spatial planning which, unfortunately, the government has not understood so far. The construction site has been set up in 2003. All you can do is quick recourse to the polls. That is a call from the citizens. That is the demand of society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Before I give you the floor, Mrs Papanatsiou, I would like to say this because I have discussed it with the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos. Indeed, there is a big problem, that in air transport with the Dodecanese, the most remote region, the cost of the ticket is huge. Imagine that you can go to London with a much cheaper ticket than in Rhodes, for example "AGEAN" officially announced that this is due to the fact that VAT from 10%, which was in 2010, went to 13% with the previous government and now has gone to 24%, that is about 1/4 of the ticket is VAT. Therefore, the request is - not to answer now - to see the issue more seriously, because, apart from the fact that the citizens cannot, it will be reduced by tourism, because it is forbidden to do so for the airlines, since Turkish Airlines is financed, that is to say, by the Turkish Government. It is not a question of grant - nobody will say that - but, in my opinion, the VAT on air transport must be dealt with differently for reasons essential to citizens and to tourism. Please, Mrs Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the first draft budget after the country has left the austerity programmes. It's a development that has the seal of the left government. This budget is a different budget. This is the first time since 2010, when the country entered the programmes that a budget includes extended measures of EUR 910 million, which will be made available to strengthen the social majority, to relieve the world of burdens charged during the memorandum period. The 2019 reduction of HPAI, the reduction of business tax, the abolition of the trade charge on farmers - members of cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives and COMMUNICA, are measures that have not been imposed by somewhere. Our government has decided, with a view to returning a portion of the over-performance of the economy back to the people. This is the difference in this year's budget. An important step is taken to bring back austerity. Despite what the New Democracy says and those who bet on the destruction account, the Greek economy shows clear signs of recovery. This year is the third consecutive year that we manage to have a positive budget, to have a budget surplus. On the basis of the surplus we have achieved this year, we have again been able to give the social dividend to those most in need. There are, of course, other important elements that show an improvement in the climate. First of all, it is the reduction of unemployment. Unemployment is falling steadily. In August 2018, unemployment was 18.9% compared with 20.8% in August 2017. Let us not, of course, remind ourselves of how much unemployment has gone on in New Democracy. In 2013, 27.6% had arrived. Also, with data from "ERGANI", in the first quarter of 2018, we have a hundred sixty-eighty thousand two eighty-two new jobs. It is the best performance recorded in the country since 2001, i.e. since the data began to exist. Let us now see growth. In 2018, growth is expected to close at levels higher than expected, at 2.1% of GDP compared to a target of 2%. In addition, this year, in the first half of 2018, according to data from the Bank of Greece, foreign direct investment increased by EUR 2 billion compared to the first half of 2017. In addition, with data from the Independent Public Revenue Authority in 2017, the companies that started work were about eighteen thousand more than the ones that were interrupted. In 2018, with the figures so far, the companies that opened were twenty-six thousand five hundred sixty-eight more than those that closed. Improving this balance for a second year clearly shows that we are on a developmental track. We don't make any success stories, of course, there's still a lot to be done. Of course, however, the reality and recovery of the economy recorded daily has nothing to do with your own account of misery and destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as tax policy is concerned, we can say that in recent years we have taken several steps ahead of a Financial Adjustment Programme and have inherited many injustices from previous governments, but also a demolished GDP. We have managed to transform the mixture of policy so that the tax burdens can be distributed more fairly. With the interventions we made in the tax system and the insurance system, 80% to 85% of the professionals pay less taxes and contributions than in the previous scheme. The middle class, so, isn't it in this 80%? We're abducting. In recent years there has been a clear increase in tax revenue, which the opposition insists on always charging overtaxation. This account supports it with a selective presentation of reality. I see, for example, with interest that the PASOK, now the Change Movement, criticizes us that we increased VAT by one unit. Just remember what had happened over their days: in March 2010 VAT was 19%. In July 2010 VAT reached 23%, it increased four percentage points in just one year. We are also constantly listening to new taxes imposed by SYRIZA. They are probably forgotten by the Vice-Presidents that their hardest taxes have been imposed by these people during the period they were ruling. When was the trade tax imposed? In 2011. When was the solidarity levy imposed? In 2011. And the heaviest tax on all HPAI - one of the most unfair taxes in the Memorandum - when was it imposed? In 2013. You forget that. HIS FAMILY was perhaps the biggest gift you gave to the lenders, because with his receipt he pledged to our government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, a little self-criticism would not hurt. Let's see some of the numbers on the outstanding debts, because a lot has been heard about the microprocessors, which we're supposed to multiply. So let us take the elements of our fellow citizens who owe up to EUR 3 000. Three million three hundred six thousand forty-five microprocessors with a total number of debts of 1650,000, were there, did you know when? On 31-12-2014, according to ADP data. There were these in your days. There were three million three hundred seventy-seven four hundred fifty-three microprocessors with a total debt of 1.626,000 at 31-10-2018. Where's the launch you're talking about? Obviously, we are not celebrating this picture. They're reduced, a little reduced. We are aware of the situation and instead of making irresponsible accusations, we are moving forward, we are working on measures to relieve our fellow citizens. Immediately you'll see more. The increase in tax revenue that has occurred in our own governance is directly linked to positive results achieved by the reduction of tax evasion. The central factor in this is the vertical increase in the use of plastic money in Greece, which has approached European data, which has happened in our own governance. With data from the European Central Bank, the value of card transactions as a percentage of GDP was escalated from 5% in 2015 to 12.1% in 2017, approaching the eurozone average of 14.8% last year. That would certainly not have been done automatically. Specific political initiatives and institutional interventions have had to be taken to encourage citizens to use plastic money more. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] The next period is to extend these actions. We're talking about evidence. According to recent agencies studies, among which IOBE, in 2017 total VAT revenues increased by 5.2% or 780 million, due to, among other factors, the improvement of the macroeconomic environment, the greater efficiency of tax controls, as well as the increase in electronic transactions. This study in the most conservative scenario indicates that the quantified performance of electronic transactions in VAT revenues is important and is estimated at an average of EUR 300 million. And automatically more conservative scenario, because a key scenario in the IOBE study says that 50% of the total increase in revenue from VAT in 2017, about 400 million, comes from an increase in electronic transactions. We note that this positive revenue return continues in 2018. Furthermore, the application of the voluntary disclosure of VDI income was also important in terms of strengthening tax revenues. By November 2017, the measure was implemented, more than half a million declarations of voluntary disclosure of income were submitted and accounted for more than 795 million euros. The figures show that in 2017, 40.3% of the amounts declared come from the income earned by 59.5% of the total taxes and fines. Today, when we are out of the programmes and can make our budget available, in accordance with our own political plan, we are moving towards targeted interventions and tax reductions, to remove from the burdens borne by the citizens in previous years. One such example was the abolition of excise duty on wine. And here lies our difference. We are now making use of the new framework in which the country is located and we have the financial space for the pieces of society that are most in need. We aim to reduce taxes, correct injustices, but build at the same time a modern social state. We put the foundations for fair growth. The very opposite is the New Democracy programme that carries the philosophy of the International Monetary Fund. Mr Mitsotakis promises a shock of lowering taxes in the private sector in order to increase employment, as he says. And this, together with the levelling-up of industrial relations and the opening-up of insurance to private interests. The classic neoliberal recipe that not only led to an increase in employment never and nowhere, but did not lead to real growth. Unless we mean developing the benefit of the few and chosen ones, a particular oligarchy that in the past decades in Greece played a leading role in the conclusion of public wealth. This is the New Democracy project and the more Mr Mitsotakis unfolds it, the clearer it becomes. As he said a while ago, "Young people in our country choose... - Yes, you heard well - "to work without insurance." Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, which comes in a few days' time, the appropriate political plan can be implemented. It is the transition from the age of austerity to growth and employment. After the abolition of the pension measure and the reduction of insurance contributions, we are now looking at the new generation to support young people who are the future of society and the economy. So the new generation is the bet for the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Nafplio High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the time. They are colleagues who want to leave, others who want to talk, but not to break the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, I would like to speak on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u168	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u169	Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I am sorry to ask for the floor, but if it is easy for you to announce from the list who Members are still going to speak, because there is a weakness - I am sorry to say it - in terms of both the time and the participation of Members. If it's easy, please announce from the Chair which Members are left to speak, so we can know. You can't leave us to the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u171	It will complete the ninth cycle, the last of which is Ms. Kefaliannis and Ms. Stamatakis. I would ask other Members to come to an end quickly so that they can speak. This is one or two more Members. I said that depends on the time violation. If time is violated by everyone, you realize that the problem is a big one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u173	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u174	I'd like to ask the State Secretary a question. Madam Undersecretary, I get the figures from the 2014 draft budget report. I see, as you have admitted and mentioned in today's rapporteur's report, that the most classic part - to say it literally of the term - of direct taxes was 46.5% then and the indirect taxes of 53.5%. That was the relationship. From today's report we read that direct taxes in 2018 are 40.8% and indirect taxes are 59.02%. For the year, as foreseen, the directs are 40.2% and the indirects 59.8%. How does that support your arguments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u175	Should we have a dialogue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u176	Listen to me. How does this support your arguments for a policy in favour of weaker classes? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u177	I explained them in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u178	Don't get upset. I'm asking a simple question. Why do you not submit the relevant tables on the grounds that you have changed the methodology?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u179	A question was asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u180	Why do you not table this table in order to be in the knowledge of all Members of Parliament? Why are you avoiding to testify to this painting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u181	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u182	Mrs Papanatsiou, please respond, provided that we do not start a dialogue. I'm saying that now for you and Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u183	I will speak for a few seconds, Mr President. I explained in my speech why direct taxes are at a better rate. This is about collectivity and not about enforcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u184	It's not enough she went to 24%...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Kutsuko, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u186	We didn't take it to 24%. You took it to 23%!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u187	Calm down! SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Big housekeeper, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Today is a special and important day for me personally. I have been an independent MEP for these last days, and I must admit that I have been very careful to vote on the 2018 budget with what the government claimed. But the speech of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and his absolute commitment that this was the last Memorandum of Understanding voted by the Greek Parliament, convinced me to vote positively on the 2018 budget, without even being part of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Then I explained my vote for it, that it is a vote of confidence in the words and face of the Prime Minister. Today, one year later, I have not only been fully confirmed for my vote at that time, but also with great pleasure I have listened to the speech by my colleague, Mr Giannis Saridis, even late, to say that he will vote for the budget and I must confess that, even late, there are still Members who have an open mind, intelligence, who are not committed to the ideals of the past and who are aware of the great success of the current government. The 2019 budget is the first budget, after a decade, which was submitted to the European Union without the brunt of the International Monetary Fund, creditors and was equal to all the budgets of the European States. It has made us truly proud that it is the first budget where we are equal to the other states and we are not the 'poor relatives'. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge victory for the government and it is a great pleasure for those of us who belong to SYRIZA that we can look at Greek women and Greeks in the eyes and tell them that all the labors of previous years, all the deprivations, all the problems, have finally taken place. And because at the beginning of my speech, I referred to what the Prime Minister said last year, I could not leave the President of the Police Department behind. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis said: "The biggest victims of your policy are the economically weakest, because they are poor on a daily basis." Listen to it, 'povert every day', that is to say, the poor are becoming poorer and the richer. We couldn't do that. We helped the poor. I will continue with what has been claimed by the Chief of Officerial Response, who, without a hint, said a few days ago in plenary, said that the non-restrainting of pensions is a product of transaction with the European Union, namely that we supposedly gave Macedonia to get the pensions. And even the excuse that Piraeus, New Democracy, said, is that the world has a tombstone and we have a secret pride. Listen to a serious response from the opposition, to say the world has a tomb and we have a secret banner. Not even in the people's neighborhoods! So there is nothing different from the discussions of the cafés. Not to be heard in Parliament's plenary. We, SYRIZA, are talking about the huge scandals of interlocutory, the misery, the great "fascist" that have proved to have occurred in the previous governments, and the New Democracy and the PASOK. And even though we have evidence and there's been court proceedings and they're being imprisoned, even though we prove it, you're telling us we're talking without evidence. I will also use the phrase 'the world is bending that you have eaten it'. But what hurts you is that you will never become a government again and so you have been driven out of despair alone into extremes. But extremes are extremely dangerous. It is unacceptable for the Chief of Officerial Representation to speak of such agreements - and so many days ago - not to have recalled his obsolete accusations. For there must be no doubt, no blurred waters, and the Greek people must wonder whether there is even a cast of truth in what was said by the lips of the Vice-President of the Officer's Vice-President. Today, even today, the theater of irrationality continued. Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Vultishis, spoke of a "Macedonian minority" and when the President of the Parliament tried to bring it back to order and asked not to be written in the Minutes, she refused, considered that she said something to be substantiated. Now, I ask myself: How will Mr Mitsotakis treat his conference with the European People's Party and indeed Mr Weber who is an official guest? I, as a Greek citizen, first - and as a representative of the people in the Greek Parliament, have been very troubled. That is why I am announcing that on 18-12-2018 I shall report back to the competent prosecutor in order to investigate everything that the Chief of Staff Response said within Parliament and Mrs Vultesis continued with it. Yes, sir. Don't look at me with my mouth open. There's gonna be a fly for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u189	Are you talking to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u190	Yeah, you're looking at me with a strange look. I'm going to file the press reports and let the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation go with the evidence he's got with the district attorney in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u191	What evidence do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u192	Didn't the Chief of Officer's Representation say we gave Macedonia to get the pensions? Did he say it or didn't he say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Big Economics, don't have an interactive conversation. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u194	I'm not having a conversation. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise to the Greeks and Greeks who are listening to me today that the current government has proved in the best way that it was the only one capable of getting Greece out of the memoranda in just three years of governance. It has now become clear to everyone that the SYRIZA Government under Alexis Tsipras is the best guarantee for the future of our country, against the terroristry which New Democracy and its Chief permanently promoted by Mr Mitsotakis, as well as the Democratic Coexistence - or KINAL, what it is called - with Mrs Gennimatas. But the people have chosen - and they will also choose in the next elections - those who work responsibly and systematically for the common good and not for their own interests, as evidenced by the many scandals that are constantly on the surface for PASOK, New Democracy. SYRIZA, fellow Members, is a mile away from these logics and this proves daily by action rather than by words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Mr George Kasapidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I was trying to understand from my previous colleague, but also from the Minister who spoke before Ms. Megalo-Economics, the government's draft for the new economy you said, but all I understood was an opposition to New Democracy, without a proposal from you, your proposal. This is a question, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for you to submit to the New Democracy too, for the other parties to submit their own political proposal in the light of the budget, in view of the new economy which you are also going to see, so that the world can understand where it has to turn so that it can solve the major problems that exist - and unfortunately continue - and from what it seems to be perpetuating. Because, Minister, I have heard you make a quote of data, mainly statistical, but I have not seen you put forward policy proposals which provide a way out hopefully, optimisticly, to solve years of problems, which, instead of solving them, are probably getting worse with your own policy, whether you want it or not, through the overtaxation that you have been doing in recent years. And since you come from the rural area, you know very well that today, especially agricultural production is squeezing. Don't wonder. I'll give an example. Because the most productive class in the country, the largest employer in our country, which is the Greek stockfarming, is squeezing. In the last few decades milk prices have never fallen so low because of an inability and a lack of policy, but also control over the many illegal phenomena that have taken place in recent years. It is also your fault, because this has been the case for the last two to three years. It's the third time that the situation gets worse and you don't do anything. However, I would like to make a few points to consider, in particular, the Members of the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in order to put forward the proposals. So, Mr President, I would also like to ask a few questions in mind and a number of proposals to give rise to a fruitful debate in the run-up to the budget which we are debating. Taking some phrases from Khalil Gimpran, the Lebanese poet of the last century, are some questions that can concern us. And what does the Lebanese poet say? In his work, "The Garden of the Prophet" writes: "The nation should be sorry if it wears a garment that does not weaving it. Bread if he eats but not his harvest. Wine if he drinks, but not his plate.’ And I would like to add to these lyrics: they are ageing and falling populations and they are not reacting substantially. So these questions, Minister, are good to answer them by tabling our proposals and our policies. How many people know that Greece imports 80% of the bread it eats, 90% of the beef it consumes, 65% of the pigmeat it consumes, 50% of the dairy - cheese products we consume annually? Overall, the value of these imported agri-food products amounts to EUR 7 billion. At the same time Greece spends around EUR 4 billion a year to import clothes. For first-time items, that is, food and clothing, our country spends 10 billion euros each year to introduce them. All this at the expense of domestic production. If we also take into account the huge imports made into fuel to meet our energy needs - and this is also a topical issue ahead of time and the long-term energy planning that has begun to take place - we realise that we are fully dependent on basic foods and important players in our economy, without having to answer these questions with specific policies. Here, in addition to the chronic diseases that you have clearly inherited, Minister and gentlemen of the government, you have not created all these phenomena - but with your policies especially in the primary sector, it is not the situation that improves. On the contrary, imports over the last three years have had a very clear growth trend. At the same time, of course, our exports are increasing, but at a much lower rate. However, here parameters which are inhibited in the infamous development and growth of the primary sector are increased taxation, excessive insurance contributions, the wrong way of taxation. And, Mrs Papanatsiou, because you come from - and I stress it again - from the rural economy you know very well that it is a great mistake to apply the simple accounting to the taxation of agricultural undertakings, to the agricultural accounts applied to all the advanced countries of the world, but only to our home country does not apply this method. And I would like to present this to you, starting in 2011, was not corrected by either previous governments, nor by yours. It is therefore an element that you must take seriously into account, so that you can change this perspective for the primary sector where together with the clothing sector is spent on imports of EUR 10 billion, while with targeted policies we can achieve the maximisation of self-sufficiency in our country, with domestic production. Within a five-year period of about 80% of all these products, first-time species that we import, we can produce them in our country. If we achieve this after five years, six years at most - and this is calculated - for the next decade, after 2023, we can hope to save 80 billion euros, Mr President, in our homeland by creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs and clearly all this surplus, which will help to reduce the surplus that you have committed to achieve through overtaxation. At the same time, I would also like to put forward my concern, Mr President, with the situation in the demographic situation in our country and particularly in my own country - and I am ending with this - in Kozani and in western Macedonia by making some information relating to population density, where western Macedonia, unfortunately, is the last among the thirteen regions of the country with just thirty inhabitants per square kilometre. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kasapidis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If we take into account that the largest employer in this region, PPC and livestock, is in decline, and livestock farming may be in the last three years, but lignite shrinking is set at 17% in the energy mix by 2030 and with the serious problems of the other major employer in this region, the fur sector, I do not see the future as optimistic. Because there is not the infamous plan for productive reconstruction with which you committed yourself to the Greek people before the 2014 elections and kept his vote. But not now, four years later, there is this plan. And much more so when the Prime Minister himself passed from all the regions of the country, starting from the outermost region of Western Macedonia, promising this infamous plan of productive reconstruction that we are still waiting for in the country and in western Macedonia. Unfortunately, Mr President, all this is reflected in this budget, and that is why I am not voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the Messinian High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is of particular importance and signalling. It is our country's first budget after a long period of crisis and monuments, a budget that comes to mark that we gradually regain our sovereignty, recover the possibility of political and political margins in our choices. This is exactly what the 2019 budget also captures, that is, a different mix of policy, which escapes from austerity and a series of underlying policy expressions and comes to highlight a new growth potential and a strengthening of the social state. This is also seen as a sign of writing of this different strategy and policy implemented by the government with the important measures announced by the Prime Minister in September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, which have already been passed and which are budgetaryly reflected in the specific budget that we are debating today. This development, ladies and gentlemen, was, of course, neither self-evident nor easy nor given. First of all, it is due to the great, long and painful sacrifices of the Greek people. But, here too, we must recognise it - it is due to a specific policy that has been pursued over the last three years, a concrete targeting and demanding policy, in order to complete this painful circle of memoranda. A policy and results which are now recognized by our partners. We have heard recently this week and the relevant statements made by Commissioner Moscovisi, who not only recognised this course, but said that he is generally welcomed at European level. In this effort and those sacrifices which have been made over recent years, I would like to focus particularly on the area of public administration. Because public administration is at the heart of the democratic functioning of the institutions, the possibility of development dynamics in the country in a fair development direction and of course also operates effectively for the benefit of the social state as well. Public administration, however, in recent years in our country, over the last decade, has been targeted, suffered a horizontal decline, which reaches almost 20% of human resources. Of course, that is not a phenomenon that only concerns Greece. The targeting of public services is something that we have seen throughout Europe. We have also seen it hit the European administration itself, which is also a public administration at European level, as a one-sided, one-sided austerity policy with a purely neoliberal mark throughout Europe, which at its heart had the depreciation of public administration. This, of course, does not mean that the public administration in Greece did not have major problems and diseases over time. We must recognise it and we must constantly - and that is what we are doing - try to deal with it. Already in recent years - and especially since 2016 - two important institutional laws have been implementing a series of changes and reforms in the public administration aimed at its independence, autonomy, effectiveness and upgrading its functioning. This is an ongoing process, because the challenges that public administration worldwide - and of course also in our country - have to face through the need for digitalisation, transformation, are constantly new and must be adapted. I would like to point out, however, that under no circumstances are we talking about an enlarged public administration. That is not true, and I would point out it because there is a constant debate that no longer touches the parafiscality. And because we are discussing the 2019 budget and because, as you know, all the procedures relating to the functioning of the public administration go hand in hand with the financial framework and under very strict budgetary control, I would like to present for the minutes the most up-to-date table we have with the September figures, which clearly shows - and are elements of the inventory, as you know it is kept at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and which has not been called into question because it is a tool that is very up-to-date and useful, with European recognition - that these ten years of the crisis, starting from 2009 to September 2018, we have a continuous reduction in public officials and also that, as regards public service contractors, which also have a very long debate - and we are talking about contractors paid by the State budget, because these are the contractors of public administration, we are not talking about project contracts, which have a different legal nature - and we are talking about contractors who are currently having to do so far as far as they have to have been, and are not yet to be subject to a permanent budgets to them. [[At this point, Minister Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou submits for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling - and this is entirely linked to the debate we are having on next year's budget - to discuss the public administration that our country, our people and the public interest need today. That is why we set three objectives in this new era that our country is going through after the memoranda: The first and crucial thing is that public administration must be levers and go hand in hand with the country's overall productive and social reconstruction path, with our overall strategy for the country. The second is that, of course, we are continuing the changes and reforms. We must constantly strengthen them, evaluate their course within a strategic framework. Thirdly, in this new period of the country, public administration needs to operate for the public interest and the better service of the citizens, and above all - and this is a question of democracy as a whole and of the institutions and public administration - by restoring the confidence of the people in the structures and functions of the public administration, but also within the public administration, which, as I mentioned before, public officials have often been unjustly targeted and discredited. In these words, I would like to say that I have the pleasure of informing the House that we have already been in consultation - I have already made a first briefing, and we will also have the opportunity to discuss Parliament from next year, when the committee responsible comes - a draft law that just comes in this new period to reflect these priorities for public administration, namely to support overall and to enhance its function, but also to support an institution of merit and credibility, such as the ADP, which must be able to operate under the new data and has been entrusted with enormous weight and because of its responsibilities, but also because of the fact that its powers have been extended in connection with its involvement in the crises of public administration leaders. [[At this point, the warning bell ends the speech time of the Minister]] I would like to have a minute in excess of my time, Mr President. I will close by saying something that I believe is important and crucial. In our period of regaining sovereignty and political choices, political and ideological differences again emerge. There are no longer the alibis of the memorandum and of a required one-way to politics. This is sound for democracy, as is the confrontation of ideas and politics, in particular in a House that reflects and expresses popular sovereignty, such as the House. However, I would like to say that there cannot be a specific debate on the basis of the imprinting of the real needs of the public administration and a comprehensive and iso-democratic anti-government policy on support for public administration. Because to be clear, as I said before, there is no enlargement of the state. We are barely on the next day of the memorials, but it stops further declining the state. That's the reality. The average age is over fifty. People who in a few years' time will be retired, who have kept public services on their backs, cannot bear the burden of digital regeneration, of digital transformation and of the necessary services that the public has. I, too, ask a question, with a very good criticism of Critical Opposition. When you say that these needs can only be met with internal movements and with a return to a hard Memorandum of Understanding of one to five - and to be clear now in December, which will have about eight thousand departures, which means that it gives us the possibility of eight thousand recruitments next year - one to five would mean, if applied, that is, of course, not to be implemented this year but next year, a thousand five hundred recruitments. I have to tell you that the thousands of five hundred recruitments marginally cover the ruthless costs of the military production schools, the security bodies and the diplomatic body. Internal movements. You know that by law of 2016 you have institutionalised mobility, which is an institution that is now on the way, now that we have the organograms. In November, five thousand four hundred eighty-eighty-one jobs were adopted for mobility. So, that's right. We need to make internal movements. We have already introduced this in order not to do so properly and in the light of what the Minister wants, but through the institutional needs of the institutions and what the civil servants themselves want, because they also have reasons for their qualifications and family needs many times. It is necessary at the moment to further serve public administration. I'm closing up with a question. How will we cover the three thousand doctors who will be retired by 2020, because this is the thirty-five years since the establishment of the National Health System and are retired? We can't make administrative moves to medical posts. How are we supposed to cover the Deputy Professors? Can we make internal movements when Greece has 14% of assistant teachers and the average pan-European - to become a normal public administration European I think we are fighting everyone here and we represent the country's democratic arc - is at 4%? So, ladies and gentlemen, criticism is legitimate and it is only natural that we have different opinions. We advocate another role of public administration, some others have a neoliberal approach. However, the basic needs and a strategy to enable the public to do its work and serve the public interest and the Greek people, I believe it is a field of consensus and not a sterile confrontation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask Mr Georgada and the other colleagues who will take the floor to respect the time, because we will end at 15.30 and not have to prolong the sitting, because people are here waiting to speak. So we must respect the time, seven minutes, so that everyone can speak. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if it did not have a picture of the legislative initiatives of the Government and of the practices which have been implemented in the last four years, at a level of ideal or at a level of a conciseness of how public administration should operate, it could have been agreed with the Minister. Unfortunately, however, the realities of this government do not merely give any such opportunity, but also ask ruthless questions as to how far this government will manage the issues of public administration. Let me remind colleagues that two are the flagship laws of this government for public administration. L.4369/2016 for the State Staff Register and the assessment and selection of Heads and Law 4440/2016 on Mobility. You know, these two laws, much of which we voted on, especially on mobility, were within the prerequisites, within the country's commitments. So, at a level of legislation it seemed that there is a will on the part of the government not only to legislate but also to implement the contents of these laws. I will tell you what happened with L.4440/2016, very simply the law of mobility. This law on internal movements in services, so that they are not subordinated and some overstaffed and, at the same time, meeting the social or personal criteria of workers, had a prerequisite, in order to implement a very important condition, which we voted in favour of: the drawing up of digital organograms and the descriptions of positions in services. Why is that all? In order to ensure that the needs of each service are reflected, the actual staff who serves at all times in such a way that they can, if possible, be regarded as having the right to request additional staff. So this necessary condition, which must be in place, in order to be able to enter the mobility system, does not apply in most cases and do you know why? Because an amendment has been voted on by the present government in June, which suspends the obligation to set up digital organograms, but allows mobility. In other words, some can and will move, without the criteria laid down by the law itself, without a description of the positions to which it is going. This, if it does not give rise to the suspicions, the indications - say as you like - of a client management of civil servants, who have the need to move, what is it? In your amendment this has been suspended. I'm coming to n.4369/2016. This law requires all legal persons governed by public law, all public companies, their boards of directors, and their presidents whose positions are vacant, whatever post has become vacant since October 2016, to be covered by this register of civil servants, i.e. with higher qualifications. We voted in favour of this provision, Article 8. Do you know what has happened from October 2016 to December 2018 that we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Even a civil servant has not been placed under the procedure laid down in Article 8 to cover a position of a legal person governed by public law. And when I say legal persons of public law, I mean hospitals and other organisations. Do you know why? With an amendment to this government, it says this will take place from 2019. They left it for 2019, for another government. Why is that? Because there were still many relatives, many friends, many executives, vulcanizers, who had not even been able to see the possibility of exercising command. So they had to see it. So that same law does not apply from the same government that voted for it. I would also like to say something about the evaluation. I've asked continuous questions to all the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction. In 2016, an assessment was carried out. 2017 is in progress. For 2016 I asked to tell me how many were evaluated in public as insufficient. By their own law, Law No.4369, there was a specific procedure, which said that those evaluated as less or more inadequate are, under the supervision of the supervisor, obliged to a specific programme to improve their performance. We're totally in agreement. Of course, in the three hundred, four hundred thousand civil servants evaluated, there are some who need such support from the head of staff. Nobody has answered me if a civil servant has been assessed as a little inadequate. Please, if there's any answer, give me one. I've asked three questions. Why do you know what's going on through all this? We finally detest the entire public service body. Indeed - and I will agree - there is a very large number of qualified and conscientious civil servants who in these years who have had fewer staff, in the years of the crisis that were less waged, who were the world more demanding, who were the world more afflicted, who have been able and kept what we call public administration, have been uprooted, kept the structures upright and met the services they had to provide. So these civil servants should not feel justified through this evaluation process that we agreed on by all the parties, which the whole of Greece has agreed that it is necessary to do? It really needs to be done, but I do not see that this government intends to do so, and that is why it does not answer this particular question. Of course, this government has achieved something which is terrible. That's what I have to say. While we had four years of restrictions on recruitment and departures, - we had five to one, four to one, three to one - this normally meant that the public had to be drastically restricted. The number of civil servants is, in fact, about the same number within four years - it is a little reduced - but we have a great increase in contractors, a great increase in posters. The Minister's logic is that we consider those who are paid for by the budget to be a contractor, I do not understand it. The ones on the payroll, that is, don't the Greek taxpayer pay them all? If he pays them through the budget, or if he pays them through municipal fees, are they not paid by the Greek taxpayer, even these thousands of contractors who can, for example, serve in cleaning? The government has, therefore, over the years, managed to increase the wage costs of the public. How has the public budget cost increased by EUR 600 million if we have the same number or less of civil servants and contractors and transferors, as we should have? How can the public's wage costs increase by EUR 600 million per year? That only one SYRIZA government could achieve. It's magical to have a limitation, but to raise wage costs. These magic at some point end, and when they're done, it's time to pay. In a few months you'll have it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u202	What do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u203	On a matter of order, which concerns the composition of the Chamber. Yesterday, Mr Tsakalotos, suddenly, made a comment on the situation in the Chamber and referred to the Civic Opposition and to us. He said we have a Member here, and that's not right, etc. I have spoken with the floor and told the Minister that we and we have spoken very much today and in any case every party, depending on its parliamentary group, has a presence. Take a look at the Chamber, Mr President. Look at the parliamentary groups. Look at the majority. Please draw up a report and send it to Mr Chakaloto so that he does not make any such comments again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Des, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u205	Madam Minister and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to begin not on the look, but on the fact that it is in our debate today on the budget, to say what it is and how it shares the state's obligations towards the citizens. I say this because we have witnessed the positions of the New Democracy and the PASOK on limiting the Public Investment Programme. The 2019 Public Investment Programme is the largest of the eight years of the total amount of 6 billion 750 million in areas such as infrastructure, entrepreneurship, employment, health and education. The question of public investment is a healthier aspect of the functioning of a national economy and, as we insist on it in practice, we also insist on a European one. When we talk about budgets, ladies and gentlemen, all minds go to numbers, percentage changes, balances of payments and mathematical curves, and that happens not only within Parliament, but also throughout the Greek society. The budget, however, is not just based on figures. It must look particularly at social needs and be judged whether it is trying to satisfy as much of the population as possible and whether it raises pathogens and deficits. Because of memorials and austerity in many countries of Europe, and particularly in our country, social structures have shrinked, and social security has increased, and unemployment has increased, for the first time, our Government with the first Memorandum of Understanding to try to correct the wrong texts as far as possible in real conditions. In a word we describe the social budget in the political economy. There is, of course, a redistribution. As a result of the consistency in our budgetary objectives and the improvement of public finances, we are now conquering the target that we set in 2015, reaching in 2018, budgeting in 2019 without new budgetary constraints, without new cuts, with no new tax growth, but with an increase in social expenditure and a reduction in taxes and levies. We then made the announcement and made it as follows: First, with the reduction of the HPAI by up to 30% gradient since 2019, with the reduction of 1/3 of the insurance contributions of professionals, self-employed and farmers, with the grant of 50% of the employer's insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-fifths of five years, with the grant of accommodation of three hundred thousand households living in rents or being borrowers with income and property criteria, with the recruitment of seven and a half thousands of workers in the ‘Help for Home’ programme, but also with special care, with the abolition of personal differences and supplementary pension measures, with the repayment of cutbacks in uniforms, judicial, university and doctors of the ESS, measures on a fair basis, relief measures, development measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the health coverage of the population is a basic condition for us in our relationship with the citizen. We therefore supplemented Law No 1397/1983 on the creation of the ESS. But now we have come to cover that huge gap that has been demanded for so many years from all over the health world, to complete by completing the National Health System with primary health care, with local health units, the family doctor, the patient's electronic file. Somebody's wondering: Now is everything perfect? No, of course not. The Ministry of Health still has its plans to go further. That is why society will give the government space and time to complete its work. However, the offer of the institutions "Stavros Niarchos" and "Alexandros Onassis", which saw the sincere efforts and political planning of the Ministry of Health and decided to invest in the program of the Ministry in donations of 200 to 250 million and 70 million euros respectively with the construction of a new hospital in Komotini, the construction of a children's hospital in the area of Thessaloniki, with additional structures at the “Advertising” Hospital and medical equipment, as well as the construction of a new wing in the “Oncesion” which will house a transplant center and a pedagogical surgery centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget, like the previous budgets of our Government, aimed at social cohesion. We are assured that for decades it has been in the social margin, young people equipped with diplomas seeking equal employment opportunities through meriting methods rather than by the Register of Officials, strengthening declared work and combating undeclared work. The Ministry of Labour, with the spearheads of the OSCE, which has gone through at another time of structural operation and staffing, is working to ensure workers' rights. At the same time, it implements by the first quarter of 2019 eleven new programmes totalling EUR 632 million in a total of eighty nine thousand beneficiaries. In particular, for young people and young people, it implements an employment programme of five and a half thousand unemployed graduates of higher education and technology institutions up to twenty-nine years of age, an enterprise grant programme for the employment of six thousand young unemployed, graduates of higher education in specialisation, production and activity sectors. At the same time, the new generation of integrated interventions for training, certification and practical training is planned. Social security, therefore, from subtle narrow and difficult walks through the creation of the ECA and in its first year of operation, has so far a positive balance with the benefit of about 1.5 billion euros. At the same time, the social solidarity we have been accustomed enough, with the extension of the Social Solidarity Income, totalling EUR 3 billion, while the other governments from 2010 to 2015 did not have one euro. And that's electronic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Dear Mr President, your patience for a minute. To get rid of the invisible clientele relationships. I will remind you of school meals in a hundred and fifty-three thousand students who have been extended to the municipalities of the firefighting areas, Marathon and Rafina, and the flooding of Mandras and Megaron. Also, the 60% increase in access of twenty - seven thousand children to nurseries. With the establishment - and for the first time - of a special Roma secretariat for the development of social inclusion actions specifically of young people by accessing in closed camps for years, the law on taking up and adopting, with a hundred family support centres and actions for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that we have received a country with financial suffocation. We worked effectively and systematically and managed to support households, the world of work and pure entrepreneurship, but we proved that we have the mental reserves to reorient everyday life and to upgrade the lives of Greeks with progressive changes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u206	Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am prepared to speak on the budget. But you will allow me, because I have just heard the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, to comment on some issues of public administration. I heard Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou talking about time-consuming problems - I even noted it - and diseases which - oh, of the miracle! - over the last three years with serious reforms! And, you know, I was born to wonder how she didn't find out in the minutes she spoke about very long reforms, which she served by different positions, being a member of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. It did not refer to the ASAP, to the Civil Service Centres that embraced the whole of society and we were still proud of them because these reforms were finally embraced and the forces that did not vote on them at the time, as well as the changes in self-government. But not even her question was born...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u208	The Citizen's Counselor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u209	The Citizen's Counselor and much more, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u210	THE DENMARK...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u211	Lots of legislation!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue. The biggest question, however, was raised - and unfortunately, it is not here to answer me because I saw that she left a moment ago - when she did not refer to the major reforms that were carried out during the period of the PASOK Minister, Mrs Xenogiannakopoulou. I am referring to the great institution, which was not a memorandum, of "DIAGYIA", which, in the end, became an innovation and acquis and served by all the forces. Okay, you're trying to change him a little now. He found nothing to say about the electronic prescribing that he succeeded, as Minister of Health, our Parliamentary representative today, Mr Loverdos, or the EEA. Nothing at all. I heard something was singing about the census. However, he diligently avoided saying that the census of civil servants took place in 2010. "They of you Secretaries and Pharisees"! Nothing else! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But let's go to two - three today's data, so to answer it a little, no more, but why does it all look good. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in September 2016, the year mentioned by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, she served eighty and seven hundred twenty-seven contractors in the wider public sector and they - oh, of the miracle! - in May 2018, were there a hundred twenty-three thousand? It is also true, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, that as far as post-call officials are concerned - which reminds me of Mr Tsipras' programme statements for four years, which, as the memorials would have been torn apart, would have abolished both the large offices and the large ministries and we have the largest government - and - oh, of the miracle! - the posted officials, who were in December 2015, a thousand nine hundred nineteen, are today two thousand fifty-three and thirty-three. Rejoice them and your supposed reforms! All you do is obey the orders of the reforms brought to you by the troika. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the budget, it is the last, supposedly, budget of the crisis, because, yes, the memorandum is over, but the crisis is here, and the superstition is here, and the ninety-nine years are here, everything is here. The last budget, however, for this SYRIZA - ANEL government is also a budget where poverty is precedent, despite the bonamies of this time, which you share this year and this year from the beastly surpluses. Because you were the only ones who, having made your so-called self-criticism about'selfish' and did not prevent the country's bankruptcy and return to the drachma through the third and unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, what did you do? You were the only ones - our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, told you a moment ago - that you were subjected to internal devaluation, the devaluation of society, the devaluation of the economy. We are today in another budget that celebrates that it is the budget of exit. Excuse me, but the social budget is down by 1.2 billion euros. Last year was EUR 2.3 billion and this year is EUR 1.2 billion less. Investments are only 13% of gross domestic product when in Europe they are 20%. How much lost investment is that, ladies and gentlemen? A single billion falls short of self-government in total resources, the government that at the time of the crisis lifted burdens and helped the citizens. Of course, I was also surprised to hear Mrs. Undersecretary of State for Finance who forgot - oh, of the miracle! - that taxes have increased by EUR 600 million, that the government's dues are EUR 2,62 billion, and that they are to be zeroed. Of course, he did not speak of the investments. Let us remember that the EPP also has cuts of EUR 550 million. For us three are the basics that the citizen needs from the social state, decentralised, we say: health, education and security. What exactly did you do for the last one? I will remind you of them because the great tragedy of Matti and Mandra took place at the shift of Mrs Durou and yours. And we had, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 August here Mr Tsipras came out and said that he would upgrade the civil protection system and bring about changes and reforms. Where's that? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I, too, would like for a moment to have your tolerance, as do other colleagues. I conclude by saying that it is not possible to continue abandoning the Security Body to the extent that it is done today, not only in equipment, not only in the wage injustices that you continue with them, but also in the way in which you manage the human resources in the Security Body. And what are you doing? You continue, in the post-Toska era, tolerance to violence, lawlessness and infraction. So the collectives, the Bollocks, do what the Minister of Education wants? Suggests students to self-sufficient. The citizens, by 68%, feel defenceless and unsafe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So if anyone puts all this together, he will see investment poverty with poorness, which is precedent, because the middle-class who is fighting is going to the poor and he expects a dividend only to vote for you. Under these conditions the equation is not only coming out, but is deadly for the spiral of the economy and, above all, lethal for the productive and living forces of society. We, the Change Movement, resist any specific legal proposals. The Change Movement we are putting forward for the demographic, for the insurance, for the overtaxation measures, where we have reduced certain institutional measures and, of course, we are voting against this budget, which is your last budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. And we move on to the next speaker, who is Mr. Chirkas from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Circa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, during last year's debate on the budget we faced, it's true, it's true, it's attacks, it's a scoundrel and it's ironic when we talked about the last state budget in the context of the macroeconomic adjustment programme. So today we are here and we are discussing the 2019 budget, when the country has come out of the memoranda and the tough comitology. It is the first budget after eight years, which provides for budget expansion, that contains significant reductions, relief measures and development measures, given the coverage of the objectives and the positive course of the economy. So where's the fourth memorial? The argument of the Opposition on pension cuts has been lost. Now they tell us that cuts are not being applied, because the government has given Macedonian as a return. If Mr Mitsotakis believes seriously that the government has haggled the Macedonian pension scheme, he obviously considers that Europeans want to solve the Macedonian at the expense of Greece. Will he report that when he goes to Europe? And anyway, why did the New Democracy vote to lift the pension cut? Mr. Mitsotakis turns to the patriotocaust because he has collapsed his record about the fourth memorial. It is true that someone wondered about the attitude of the New Democracy, which, as he saw, SYRIZA was seriously fighting for the cancellation of cuts, instead of changing tactics, worked hard to enforce the measure. As a result, it was irreversibly exposed to the eyes of society. There has, of course, not been a long time since the New Democracy had described the package of measures of the IBM as a catastrophic impulse. Now, he is forced to vote for all these measures, one by one, in the House, because he cannot do anything else. You have no arguments left to support your opposition. Do you remember any other time applying the announcements of a Prime Minister to PD over three months? Ladies and gentlemen, this government has faced a difficult situation in the early years of governance, where the economic crisis, the unreasonable increase in unemployment, the unreasonable growth rates, the reduction in wages and the worsening of working conditions have been data and inherited by the policy of austerity and social social neoliberalism, implemented by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. The country changed its page and we were already counting the first days of the memorial era. With painful efforts, proper planning, realistic approach to things, the government managed to reverse the climate and improve all economic indicators. We have managed to keep society up and stand by the weak. This is the policy that today enables us to discuss the first memorial state budget, without any reduction, with the Greek Government deciding on the mix of policy, through which we will catch the targets. The citizens have returned optimism, but also confidence in the current government. For the third consecutive year of the year, we distribute in the form of a social dividend, part of the surplus resulting from the overrun of the budgetary objective in relation to the primary surplus. Three and a half million of our fellow citizens will see today and on the 28th of the month from 200 to 1,200 euros in their dividend account, from the total amount of EUR 710 million that we have secured thanks to the over-performance of the economy. The decline in unemployment by seven percentage points and the creation of three hundred thousand jobs is a fact. It does not solve the problem of unemployment, but it reveals a potential which is growing and makes us optimistic that with our policy it will be further reduced. The initiatives that we have taken, immediately after the country has come out of the rocks of the memoranda and the measures that have been adopted, are a sign of writing on the policy that we want to pursue. These are measures to alleviate and support a large proportion of citizens, who, despite the empty content of reactions, voted in favour of a large part of counter-population. It would also be incomprehensible not to do so. Of course, there is a continuity, because we still owe, as a state, the citizens who have lifted the burden of the crisis and the memoranda. The reintroduction of collective bargaining, the reduction of HPAI, but also the reduction of insurance contributions to free professionals and farmers, are not done for SYRIZA to gain points towards New Democracy. They are because society and the real economy need it, after a decade of hard budgetary coercion. So we are dealing with a new mix of budgetary policy, which, among other things, demonstrates the diverse political perception we have in relation to New Democracy. In addition to this, this new mixture includes the grant of insurance contributions for young people under the age of 24, the introduction of a new housing allowance on the basis of economic and family criteria, the strengthening of school units for special education and training, the strengthening of the "House Help" programme. The new fiscal policy has a twofold objective: on the one hand, the financial relief of households and businesses, through the permanent reduction of tax burdens and insurance contributions, and on the other, the strengthening of social protection and the reduction of youth unemployment, through the launching of targeted actions. The New Republic of Mitsotakis promises to develop a mirror of the austerity policies of the last eight years and the wild looting on the foundations of society. The neoliberal model adopted by the New Democracy is indifferent to social spending and employment relations and seeks to devaluate public sectors, such as health and education, which this government has been able to support in very difficult circumstances. You can be sure, then, that the people at the end of the four-year period will be invited to decide, not on the basis of announcements and promises, but on the basis of political intervention, which will have already improved their everyday lives. And those who have invested in destructiveness and the make news will be defeated. Since today we have been preparing for a new four years, because the people will not allow the country to return to bankruptcy and have opened the way in memoranda. The people won't be back in the old days. Our vision remains and is Greece of democracy and social justice. And this Greece will once again give us the mandate of the Greek people to continue building it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you. The New Democracy MP, Mr Kalafatis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proud that this budget is the first after the memoranda. What he fails to say is that the commitment to high primary surpluses remains to strict supervision, remains to be placed at the Supreme Court of Public Property even monuments of our culture. The government is proud that the support programme is over. Yes, the cheap loan from our partners is over, but the country cannot go out on the markets and the loan rates are almost as high as the ones that applied the Memorandums. It's stable over 4%. This is not just a proof of failure. It is, above all, a dramatic warning. It is 'capable of' the dangers of continuing the same policy, of the same conception, of the same attitude. The government is actually proud that what could be done in 2015 is now being done. It does not, however, say that the country and the citizens are already in a much worse situation, that in these four years it has imposed thirty new taxes, that it has gone through twenty cuts in pensions and increases in contributions, that it has dramatically cut pensions for all young pensioners, that it has cut the pensions for widows, that it has cut off basic social benefits. He cut off the CSCE, cut out the luxury benefits, cut off the heating oil allowance, even cut the tax deduction for medical expenses. The government is proud to have put the economy back on track. But he pretends to forget the derailment he caused. Refusal of the costs incurred by the 2015 crime. He revolts when Klaus Regling calculates the damage to 100,000,000,000 euros. Don't lie, gentlemen of the Couple. There are even your MPs who are talking about a cost of EUR 35,000,000. There's official evidence to testify to the truth. Only by closing the banks were 40,000,000,000. They lost 15,000,000 euros, the small shareholders and 25,000,000 euros, the Greek state. The Athens Exchange was devalued and lost 45% of its value. The economy has been plunged back into the recession and in three years, a national income of EUR 26,000,000 has been lost. Greece and especially the weaker ones were charged with additional austerity measures of 10,000,000,000 euros. The conclusion is clear: Greece in 2015 suffered enormous damage and this damage did not come from either mistaken or illusion. It came from crime, came from decisions that had inevitable consequences and the consequences of these were well known by the government when it decided to hold a referendum. He was warned by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, by the head of the Eurogroup, by the President of the European Commission, even by the author of Plan X. Let us not forget that the Prime Minister himself, as soon as he decided the referendum, sent his Vice-President to the European Central Bank to discuss the closure of banks and the imposition of controls on the movement of capital. The Prime Minister is proud that in the summer of 2015 he saved the situation because he had a clear mind. And who took her all the way there? Who was taking the country outside the Eurozone? Who said in St Petersburg that it would open up to new seas to reach new ports? Why three days before the referendum did the Minister of National Defence assure the Prime Minister that the Armed Forces ensure stability internally? Why two days later an ANLL MP declared that the Army is ready to feed the market with food and medicine? What does the Lafasan confession mean to have tabled a plan for returning to the drachma? What does the state of the top minister then mean that this proposal had been discussed at two ministerial councils? What do Yannis Varoufakis' revelations mean to discuss the proposal for a referendum and exiting the euro, which Symble did? What do the revelations of the American coordinator of Plan X mean for euro-exit preparations, for military involvement, for drachma printers? What does it mean, above all, does the Prime Minister's confession that he was looking for foreign reserves, which is, as he said, necessary for returning to the drachma? It may have been possible, ladies and gentlemen, at the last minute, to prevent exit from the euro. As Varoufakis says, fear of a possible uprising and overthrow of the government prevailed. As the Vice-President of the Government has recently said, it may have been the fear of a chaotic situation which could not be controlled by democratic means. The crime, however, was already under way and the consequences of the crime were painful. Without that, the first Memorandum of Understanding would be in 2015. Without it, our country would already have risen higher. Without it, the Greeks would already live better. Ladies and gentlemen, do not celebrate. Don't try to burn down and blow up the bridges. Don't make another mistake. You can't with a monocoding to erase what you have committed. You cannot "with half the drami water you can sweeten the sea." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Lambroulis, Vice-President of Parliament and MP of the Communist Party of Greece. Please, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. The so-called Memorandum of Understanding is another success of the memoranda, namely, the implementation of the barbaric anti-grassroots and deeply classic policy in favour of the capital of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It bears the seal of continuing plundering the people's income, slaughtering social costs, and strengthening business groups. It is yet another proof that modern labour needs do not fit into the narrow limits of capitalist profitability and growth on behalf of capital. It is precisely this direction, through the budget, that the deterioration in the terms of provision, prevention, treatment and medical care of the people is not only temporary, but is permanent. Greece's net exit from the economic adjustment programmes, which are linked to reforms and structural measures already adopted, as indicated in the draft budget's draft budget, relate to: Firstly, the continued overthrow of working relations by maintaining and strengthening poorly paid and temporary flexible forms of work rather than stable and permanent work. Even the implementation of the 'one to one' ratio for health and welfare, primary health care, means maintaining and worsening the present disastrous situation, with enormous shortages in staff while it is no coincidence that the budget does not provide for new recruitments. Secondly, the continued operation of public hospitals with own revenues and private financial criteria, i.e. as businesses, and private companies pertaining to the area. Thirdly, the continuation of the cap on drugs and diagnostic tests. Fourthly, the continuation of a drastic reduction in State expenditure. For example, the grant of hospitals by 65,000,000 from the state budget is reduced to 2019 and all this is passed on to the workers either indirectly, to the insurance funds, or directly, through direct payments. Based on the above, for example, state and insurance funds pay for drugs 57.7% less while the insured pay 43.1% more than in 2009. With the figures of the eight-month period in 2018, the EEAY should pay 85% of expenditure on the positive list medicines, those it compensates, and the insured 15%. With the tricks, however, of the insurance price and character of 1 euro per prescription, the ratio reached 66% of the EOPY compensation and 34% for patients. At the same time, private sector payments are increasing for examinations and treatments, and there is a further increase in prevention and treatment not covered by the state budget or we have patients' participation, for example, with 10% in physiotherapies or special treatment for lobes and others. Truly, you are cutting off the subsidy of the compensated drugs for those who took the CRP, which is also cut in 2019, the last part of it. This is abolished. Does the medium-term programme provide for the non-implementation - if you like - of zero participation? We have 240 million per year for the four years 2019 to 2022. Yes or no? And these measures, like others, are the aim of the policy of all governments, namely to limit state funding to a basic minimum benefit package, which is in line with the people's real and modern needs, which should pay and pay again while they should be enjoyed for free. Indicative of this direction are the findings of ELSTAT concerning health expenditure on family budgets for 2017, which reached 7.3% with the average monthly expenditure of EUR 102.44, while even greater is the burden of one-sided households, especially those with a low income of less than EUR 4.876, unemployed, uninsured, pensioners over sixty-fifths of five years with their abundance to reach 13.4% of their income. Therefore, the problem remains and the patients are forced to go to the private sector and to pay tests, treatments, etc., while much of the benefits through the EEAS do not actually apply. This is how with its policy and the current government paves the way for increasing the profitability of private health businesses, which otherwise presupposes supporting public health and free care. Thus, through the state budget, not only does it mean reversal of the health course for the benefit of the people, but instead we have continued the current disgusting situation with a new escalation and worsening of the attack on workers and people's needs. And it will continue and increase with any government serving growth by steaming its business groups and their profitability. Because anti-grassroots policy and health, welfare, medicine is not a bad or wrong choice, whether governmental or governmental, and so on. neither distort the principles and values of the European Union, but stems from the very nature of the European Union as an transnational association of capitalist states, in order to defend the interests of the European monopolies. In this strategic objective, there is a match between all of you's urban parties, and any differences that you make are limited to how this is achieved, trying to capture popular discontent within the limits of more effective management. Any controversy between you concerns the ability, effectiveness and the best project in the implementation of this anti-popular policy. So the issues of cost rationalisation, the household, the fight against waste and corruption are the propaganda cloak, in order to incriminate even the previous benefits and the rights of workers, by imposing additional cuts and payments on medicines, medical, laboratory tests, treatments, health material. We do not accept this policy, but we reject it. And that is what we call on the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners, the people's layers, to step up their struggle for a state-of-the-art health system, modern, universal and absolutely free of charge, without any business activity, so that health care services are a guaranteed social right and not an expensive paid commodity. Because realistic today is not the reduced requirements or the creation of refreshing hopes and expectation that the achievement of the goals of refreshing business profits will give room for gradual improvement in medical care conditions. Realist cannot be huge shortages in staff, technological means and structures, almost non-existent state services, emergency assistance, prevention, services for the health and safety of workers at work. It is not realistic that patients pay a dime for a recipe, we mourn dead of fatal accidents, that occupational diseases are not recorded, that pediatricians in many areas of the country, as are other specialties. Realistic for the JRC from the point of view of the people's needs are the enormous potential of science, technology, labour productivity and the large number of health personnel to be designed to defend, improve and restore the health of the people. And the achievement of this objective presupposes that, in addition to demanding measures for relief and secondment of solutions, the struggle should be directed towards the prospect of deeper political, economic and social changes for a development that has the aim of satisfying modern and ever-increasing social needs. And the implementation of this objective can be achieved with a strong JRC everywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. We have been moving on with Mr Barkas, a SYRIZA MEP, from the most consistent Members of Parliament since the morning awaiting his turn in the Chamber. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, it is the Bureau's responsibility to protect the procedure with regard to speakers, speakers' time and the positions and the defence of Members' rights, because in this Chamber the Members have a dominant role and not the ministers. And since 2012, when I represent my prefecture, Preveza, in this House, it is happening, I would like, please, very much, to convey my concern to the Bureau that at the moment there are few Members in the Chamber. The PASOK Group is not a Member here, who also makes jokes about it. In my view, these things should be protected. It may not be given the floor to the Members, but everyone who claims to speak, as if seven minutes were enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u221	What did you say? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u222	I say that, in the PASOK Parliamentary Group, a Member is in the Chamber, I have not said anything bad. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u223	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u224	Since the start of the debate on the budget, Mr President, there are two categories of Members. They are the ones who are discussing the substance of the bill, namely the 2019 budget and what will happen, but there are those who think they can use such a top parliamentary event to strengthen their nationalist reflexes. I am referring to the fact that there are Members of the Co-population, who refer to the budget, but the Members of the Officerial Representation are mainly those who refer only to an issue they consider to be politically helpful to them. This reference, this political direction, these positions of the Members of the New Democracy, in my view, constitute the recognition of the complete collapse of the New Democracy's political line, because the last speaker, the New Democracy MEP, came here and came in 2015 and we were all trying to understand what it says, what it refers to. He mentioned several ministers, who were indeed ministerial on SYRIZA in 2015. At the moment, however, we have a budget in front of us, which will apply for 2019. And I think it is a disgrace that Members refer to a matter of foreign policy which, in my opinion, is the ones who have created and have an absolute responsibility in this regard. What are New Democracy Members doing? They are elevating their right-wing reflexes, considering that they will be able to exceed the percentage they have inhibited. I shall refer to the polls that they love very much. And they are the ones who embrace the most extreme right now in the political scene of the country. Even - yet, unfortunately, for the Civic Opposition, Minister, we have reached the point of the golden, fascist, leader of the Golden Dawn to call for the Civic Opposition and say that "Yes, with what he says, we have a common place on the foreign issues of the country". Look, this thing is very serious and the New Democracy still hasn't answered it. But I, because I am not a loot-eater, and I remember some things, I will say this in parentheses. 'The President' refers to the President of the Centroon Union, 'presumably he does not remember. There is an official position of the Greek Government validated by billions by the National Representation for a complex name with geographical identification for all uses of erga omnes. This is the official position of the National Representation, as reflected in the Karamanlis Government's programming statements in 2007, as was later confirmed in the Bucharest negotiations, 1 July 2017, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who responds to Mr Kotzia. These, Ministers, and gentlemen of the New Democracy, were the official position of Mr. Mitsotakis until 2017. What changed then? He changed that Mr Mitsotakis, obviously, lost the political line in his party. It was won by LAS in 2008 and the Spring 1994 Policy, Mr Samaras and Mr Karatzaferis. These are, therefore, the vulgarities that Mr Mitsotakis emits from a Step by Parliament, saying that the government has given the name in relation to pensions. I would say that you have more responsibility for what you say, because you should also call the next time and the leaders of Europe who participated in this transaction. Now let's go to the budget. There is one assumption that we all recognise, even the Qualifying Opposition, that this budget is the first non-Monthly Budget, it is the first budget that was signed by the Greek Government, which was supported by the Greek Government and only refers to us. We have no commitment to make next year in relation to discussions with troikas or Europeans. In this sense, obviously this budget is absolutely classic. Why? Because the government is SYRIZA and SYRIZA has a class policy. Considers that it should put all those who you in 2010-2015 left on the margin, women, young people, workers, retired people. That's why we achieved the non-cutting of pensions in 2019. Because you will only be those who have cut the pensions twelve times horizontally. We are the ones who support the workers in this country. That's why we reinstated the collective labour agreements, we canceled the minimum wage, which you brought to Parliament and you voted for, and we increase from 1-1-2019 to the minimum wage. It is the budget that has been entered into the Ministry of Finance. That's where it comes from, that's where it's said, that's where it's based. If anyone reads this budget horizontally or in the right direction, he can argue with many things. It can still - still, to help you, find a lot of things to criticize. But in what one cannot doubt is that it is the first memorial budget, the only free budget. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, Mr President, the country - it is a fact, it is recognised by everyone - is changing a page. No, I'm sure we didn't do it all right. It is certain that we have not given solutions to everything. But the country's changing, it's turning into a normality. Society, young people, young people, workers, women, children, pensioners are protected. That is why we are tabling and voting on this class budget. Traveling for you that bothers you a lot. But it is in the interest of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mr Barcas, because you have said a few things that are broadcast on television and you have referred to the Bureau in general, I have to tell you that the application of the Rules of Procedure is becoming more flexible, because this is what the House wants. It could in seven minutes automatically stop the time from the machines and have all the stress of seven minutes. We don't. Did you see a party leader being nervous about time and asking for the Rules of Procedure to be applied? Everyone's breaking time. And so are the ministers. So here we have an application of the Rules of Procedure as loose as possible and not strict as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, allow me. I understand that. But it's another minute, it's another four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u227	Okay. Good. I understand that. Mrs Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's debate on the budget is taking place in a climate of artificial optimism and completely paradoxical on the part of the government. Only this festive climate is in absolute disharmony with the feelings of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. It is in complete misrepresentation with what each household experiences and each business. That's why there's no more audience for your account. No one is moved by your triumphs, when reality is impeccable. And the reality says the taxpayers' debts increased in September by 1,400,000 euros. Is this part of the small miracle that Mr. Tsipras has achieved in the economy, along with the one million bill seizures all four million Greeks owed to the public? And you expect people to express their gratitude and tell you and “thank you” when you share crumbs that you have already taken to him in the multitude. But not even abroad finds your'success story' fans. Markets are keeping distance from our country and interest rates remain at the heights, sample and that of your inefficiency and unreliability. In this year's budget, you are insisting on a recipe that has failed miserably, which does not give any emphasis to growth and investment, which ultimately brings us further poverty and plunges us into stagnation. The rapporteur's report sets social cohesion as a priority, a rather contradictory aim in relation to your actions, because it is oxime to support this in a government which in the last four years has imposed twenty-nine new taxes and has turned the country into a champion in overtaxation, as the recent OECD figures show. This tax storm, combined with pension cuts, uploaded the austerity bill to EUR 9,500,000 since 2015. These achievements are trying to erase from the memories of everyone, the Prime Minister, when he talks about government a hundred days. Beyond your intolerance to private investment, you are also mocking at the public investment programme, which is constantly shrinking over your days, effectively canceling an important investment tool that would allow an economy that is dying to regain a pulse. You ignore the beneficial effect investment in the economy and the labour market can have and you are promoting the subsidised policy that effectively recycles poverty. EUROSTAT's data confirm that Greece is a reality in terms of the effectiveness of social transfers. Everyone, that is, the bonuses you offer without any targeting, have a zero effect and only serve your voting logic. The beastly surpluses you create do not solve any vital problem in society and create no prospects. They serve to maintain the client state and make party appointments. Public contractors and poster armies are the main axis of your employment policy. Parttime work and wages up to EUR 500 tend to become the norm in the labour market. Of course, there are bright exceptions that saw their career launch. I'm talking about friends. These, you see, one succeeds when one has the "ethical advantage of the Left". The part of sport, which I am the director of, could not remain intact from your policies, with the relevant GAAP budget being reduced, with the Public Investment Programme being used as a general rule for squeeze and patches, based not on the development of sport. And we see the Undersecretary of Sports as the other "Bavroyaluro" sign programmable contracts that they cannot and will not be called upon to implement, when, for example, the OAS diving room has stayed open for months without builders. Nevertheless, we have heard Mr Vassiliou beating himself about himself as the great benefactor of Greek sport, making his account, and little mention of what he will do. No emphasis on 'Sport for All' programmes. No care for school sport. But where does anyone catch your things in sport? By the well-advertised and millennialed sport law, which, after announcing a number of ten times, was finally referred to the bells, to finally put Mr Vassiliadis in consultation with a legislative enthusiasm that directly turns against amateur and societal sport, which closes the eye to small and large interests by ignoring the sporting community. From the subject of school sport? Mr. Vassiliade told us about teaching the swimming lesson when this government assigned the teaching of Physical Education to teachers, discrediting trainers, and when it comes with the new legislation to equate trainers with empirical trainers. From the question of good administration to which the Secretary-General has spoken, with the chosen government officials assigned to the administration of the CTE to set up scandalous employees and to operate their personal business? What is the doctrine of your good management? "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." From the distinguished athletes and their reward, which Mr Vasiliadis told us? If he wanted to look at them in the eye, he would have to keep his commitment and legislate on the molecules of the athletes after the relevant decision of the S.H.E. This is a substantial incentive for athletes. Can we catch it from the subject of violence? We remember Mr Vassiliou last March, with the threat of the Grexit football team hovering, making provocations to stop violence and asking all the groups to agree. We are still waiting for institutionalisation and implementation, and we will probably wait for a long time. At the same time, the country remains a clear vine on sporting violence and has already introduced hooligans from every corner of Europe. To sum up, the leadership of the State Secretary for Sports has constantly proved "accurate to pie and cheap to flour". He promises nuclear weapons and shows water guns and water guns, as we know, no one won any battle. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the last budget for this government, as much as you are struggling with the situation, has a clear footprint of your destructive policies which have deprived our country of the development it could have. Citizens are not worth and can't afford any more lost years. That's why they're looking for perspective and hope. That is why they trust the New Democracy government's proposal and Mr Mitsotakis. That's why they're massively turning your back. I don't know if the intoxication of power lets you see that you're at the door of the exit. You will soon read the threshold and will be a sad memory for the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u229	Thank you. Mrs Stamatakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think I'm the last speaker, so in advance I ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u231	You're not late. There are other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u232	Oh, I'm not the last one? I'm sorry. Beforehand, I ask for some tolerance from the President if he has to give me a little more time. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like from the Step forward of the House to refer to the resolution tabled by my colleague Mrs Theleritis, who condemns racial violence, violence against women, violence against any other, racist violence and the shaming by the media of the victims of this violence. I would like this resolution to be adopted by Parliament and to come out as a resolution of the majority of the parliamentary groups and you understand which parliamentary groups I mean. I would also like to see as many of us as possible involved in the course that is taking place in a little while and that is organised by women's organisations and the General Secretariat of Equality in the memory of these victims, in the hope that we no longer have such deaths. I'm coming to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can be optimistic and speak, looking at the citizens in the eyes. Today we can talk about the great bet that we have put on both ourselves and the citizens of the country and the institutions. The big bet was that 2018 would be the year of exit from the memoranda and the 2019 budget would be the first Memorandum of Understanding. And we won that bet. We also won the public debt arrangement bet, the growth bet, the long-term viability of the insurance system. We earned the bet and disproved the Cassandras who were talking about pension cuts. The new Republic and PASOK - KINAL had been injected into a recital of disinformation, risk and terrorism of pensioners, although six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners will see even a small increase in their pensions. I, ladies and gentlemen, will not say what you did and bring the country to the forefront of bankruptcy. We've seen these, we've told them, the Greek people have experienced them on their feet. I will say what we and today are proud of, yes, no matter how much that bothers you, for the budget that we shall be voting on. We have already passed the law on the abolition of pension cuts, which has been very relieved by all pensioners, who have been terrified all this time. Also, the payment of retrospectives to the indictments, to the universities, to the judges, to the doctors of the ERC has been voted on. The reduction in insurance contributions to two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed, farmers and scientists has been voted on. The grant of social security contributions for young people has been voted on, the reduction of HPAI for medium and low incomes, the payment of the dividend to low pensioners, low wages and unemployed people. We abolished the trade fee for cooperatives, for cooperative farmers, for agricultural cooperatives, for school cooperatives, for social cooperatives, for natural legal persons who were inactive and then follow-up. It is not an election benefits that we have established and implemented with this budget. They are permanent and legal measures to create a modern and transparent social state, which is coming to slowly replace, but the system of pluralism and evil which prevailed until now. And after he haunted the argument about pension cuts, you started to say and wonder if we'd get out on the market. On the markets, we will, ladies and gentlemen, go out on the basis of a concrete plan and with a high head, with honesty and transparency. SYRIZA took over rule in very difficult circumstances. The first law we brought was the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. We must remind ourselves of this because we must not forget what policies the world has reached in this situation that was in 2014, the great tragedy of the poorness of the Greek people, who lost up to 40% of their income by 2015. With the humanitarian crisis laws, the CRL and the social dividend spent a total of 3,055,000 euros over a three-year period, when from 2010 to 2015 and for a five-year period the previous governments had not given a single euro. The successful implementation of the CRL and especially the platform enhance transparency and enable, together with the National Coordination Mechanism, a holistic response to the needs of our fellow citizens. We have adopted a new action plan for the child, which will not only contribute to better protection of this vulnerable group, but for the first time the child is treated as a young citizen and not as a monitoring of his parents. We extended school meals to all schools. We have founded the remaining thirty thousand places they need for nursery stations to keep no child out of here. We are implementing a very large dismantling program for all children in a hug. We are strengthening the special education with the recruitment of permanent teachers for this vulnerable group. In total, up to 15 thousand permanent teachers will be recruited in 2019-2021. We support the elderly with EUR 200 million in the Holistic Care Programme for the Elderly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time. With the recruitment of three thousand two hundred and fifty-seven permanent workers we improved the "Help at Home" programme and we support the Citizen Service Centres. With a number of laws and financial tools, as well as the recruitment of specialists, we cover the increased needs of the municipalities and regions. In the three-year period 2015-2018 we almost doubled in relation to the previous period to local government funding to tackle natural disasters and water shortages, and for the first time a specific funding aid was given to municipalities. Over 512m euros were provided to local government agencies under the "Philodis" programme, of which 11m euros were provided in the Regional Unit of the Islands. Last summer the measure of the transport equivalent, which will apply to all islands, was adopted. Because, in fact, I come from a constituency which also includes the islands of Argosaron, I have to say that the first time this measure on island policy concerns not only fertile lines, but all the islands. It will also apply to the region and to the islands of the Argosaronic region of Attica which had been excluded from all policies for the islands. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, we have been in a very great refugee crisis, with a newly established ministry that had to deal with very major problems and we have managed to protect Greece from the values of solidarity and national coexistence for all of Europe. All these precedents are institutional measures and are included in the current budget that we shall be voting on. The political climate has changed. The country has begun to regain solvency in the international political investment environment and a note of optimism is evident for the Greek society. You don't like it, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, but that is the reality, which you should accept with a heavy heart. I thank the Bureau too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Amalada High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor. Here are Mr Gülekas - who has been here since this morning - and Mr Fotillas, in order to finish. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget after the end of the third left memorial seals the end of a completely failed government service. Lying and delusional costs the country's citizens very much. Today we are talking about another anti-development budget, hard austerity, which prescribes another year of economic suffocation. It is, of course, accompanied by your well-known misleading pre-election verbalism. After all, you intend to proceed to the elections, with the Greek people being depleted by the unbearable economic burdens that you charged him with the third and unjustified memorandum, after you have dismantled the banks, you have imposed capital controls and deceive the Greeks with an unconstitutional and misleading referendum. In practice you imposed EUR 10 billion additional measures and put the country in primary mammoth surpluses for many years. You have dissolved the middle class and made the poor, the poorest, under unprecedented conditions of overtaxation. You promised the public property for ninety years and the country is still out of the market, with your sole responsibility. And now you want to forget everything. Try again to mislead the Greeks with your insurmountable pre-electionist, based on impeccable, subsidised policies, sacrificing growth. You have come to an election to cancel what you yourself have voted on in the four years that you have been running, in the logic of a short-sighted policy and party opportunism, as far as you are permitted, of course, because your policy has imposed the country on enhanced supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget continues to decay the country on a hard memorial line. In particular, it provides for seventeen pension cuts, twenty-nine tax increases, permanent EUR 9.5 billion austerity measures, growth close to 2% with a surplus close to 4%. And the government celebrates that it supposedly got us out of the memoirs? Let us stress here that from the beginning of 2016 until today the Public Investment Plan has been below the target of EUR 2.6 billion, that is to say, at the lowest level of the last decade. Half of the measures you give as an expansionary fiscal policy in 2019 are the Public Investment Programme, which you are cutting by EUR 550 million. Is that the growth you're bringing? You cannot make a success of taking EUR 10 billion from the Greek people and returning to them only EUR 1, nor of course the predictions that in 2018 the rate of unemployment is projected to reach 19.6%. These are the results of your policy after four years. It is another anti-development budget based on surpluses, which will prolong recession and underemployment, which seals your obsession with tax evasive logic. It is a policy that ruined the middle class and created conditions for the collapse of investment and the decline of competitiveness, which affects the entire Greek society and soon the future of Greek tourism, the great comparative advantage of the country. In 2015 we left the increase in the competitiveness of the Greek tourist product through a targeted mix of development policy. The current government, however, has only been content to enjoy the benefits of this successful course, without actually having a national tourism strategy. Developments such as Brexit or Turkey's tourist return, in conjunction with the overtaxation regime imposed by VAT, the overnight tax, have a negative effect on the competitiveness of the domestic tourist product. The communication management of arrivals is not a strategy for tourism, nor is it an answer to the problems that are already accumulated. The same picture is presented by the government in the field of culture. He failed to make use of the NRP for the integration or integration of integrated culture projects. He failed to modernise the operation of historical and archaeological sites and museums. In the area of copyright, your handling has not only solved, but created more problems within a framework of undividedness and opacity. Finally, the irresponsible frugality of the leadership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport led to the inclusion of monuments and archaeological sites of the Greek cultural heritage on the list of supranational privatizations. All you do is issue press releases, which simply confirm that you are unable to solve the problems you are constantly creating in the field of culture. Four years there has been no planning for the development and exploitation of our cultural heritage, only fragmentary interventions and those with a long delay. The myth of the relationship between the left and the culture collapsed miserably. He leaves behind debris and deep frustration. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 election budget marks the end of a government that has been tempted to deceive the Greek people, which is being proposed by the party rather than by the national interest, which has not been able and able to meet the needs of the Greek society. But Greece must return page. It needs a new impetus that gives prospects and opportunities for progress, a new stable development environment as a counterweight to budgetary suffocation, which will stop the country's bleeding into human capital. We need to move on to innovative and substantial reforms that will enhance the competitiveness of our economy in all areas, to develop a new policy of strengthening the institutions, which will lay the foundations for a new, more efficient state, a people's Europe. That is why we too are voting against your anti-development budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mrs Kefaliannis, especially for respecting time. Mr Gülekas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the last budget for this government. This government came to us with a programme of Thessaloniki and included everything in the first budget. He didn't do anything. The second budget brought the parallel programme. The third budget has come along with the memoranda and now it is said that the budget under discussion is a budget without commitments which for the first time we can draw up at our place after the programmes, the Memorandums, which you are baptizing programmes, such as the troika, etc. Now this is SYRIZA's new terminology. Question: What have you done? You have passed the locust to the Greek people, Minister, and the time he's ready to drown. Now that the situation has reached the unprecedented, do you allow him a margin to breathe and say: Are you not happy about all this? I am surprised to see the courage indeed of many speakers from the government coalition, who are criticizing the New Democracy, but also of all other parties. It's the Greek people who don't understand what good they do to them. You're the only ones to blame for nothing. Remember your works and days very quickly, because with the budget you see a lot changing? The VAT from the 13% that went to 23% and then 24% to the focus changes, Minister? Oh, no. Does the abolition of the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands, which you voted for the first time - what was maintained by Greece since its accession to the European Union - change, Minister? Oh, no. Is the reduction in the tax burden that will hit low-wage, low-wage people, even the unemployed, because with the pretext they will have to pay for the first time a tax? Oh, no! The Greek pensioners know that you voted to go the tax-free from 8,600 to 5,600. The reduction of duty is your measure, an unnecessary measure, and now they need to know that the Greek pensioners will lose a pension, the low-payers will lose a wage. And the unemployed will pay, for the first time, 500 and 600 euros a tax in our country. You did this, the Government of Social Sensitivity, the Left Government. I'm on my way. The increase in tax advances for both freelance professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises to 100%. What measure was it? It's yours. Is it changing? Oh, no. The imposition of the tax on television, on telephony, on the Internet, on cigarettes, on unleaded petrol, on coffee, on diesel, on fuel is changing? Oh, no. I don't understand why you're on your way. What are you doing with this budget "development" as you say? Should we go out on the markets? We can borrow at cheap interest rates. Let's just say, did you manage this? Oh, no. At such rates, no one can borrow. Ireland was in the memorials, and Portugal was in the memoranda, and Cyprus came out and borrowed at very reasonable interest rates. At what rate can Greece borrow? By 4.5%? If that's possible! To say other works and days of your government. You say: 'We do not cut pensions'. We do not cut pensions. It's awesome! After having cut the pensions seventeen times, after cutting off the new pensioners, because you cut them midterm by 30% -35% the pension, and in some cases 45% of those who got the pension from May 2016, after bringing the health contributions for the first time from 0% to 6% on supplementary pensions and from 4% to 6% on the main pensions, after you cut the widow's pensions, since since since... You're coming now and you're taking away what you're bringing growth! You are very proud of the fact that for a measure that you voted twice and it was unnecessarily, that of further pension cuts, and eventually you get it back. And you're celebrating about it! And when we in here were yelling at you and we said, "If you're nationally proud of the cut, let's all vote together! Why didn't you vote for it? The whole political world was in agreement. You are now coming to tell us that for the first time the SYRIZA government has been able to give a breath. For the first time sincerely, the SYRIZA Government has achieved a great deal of things that I will tell you below, because they are very important. And today, especially, they become even more important, because now that the Prime Minister of Macedonia, Mr. Tsipras, is travelling for Thessaloniki, for the capital of Macedonia. Not of... southern Macedonia, but of one Macedonia, of Greek. Because you've confused us with this too. But he's not traveling alone. Along with the Prime Minister, they travel twenty-nine - thirty degrees of MATs from the rest of northern Greece, as is the special police vehicle, the "AYRA", which launches water on protesters. The "laoproblem" Alexis Tsipras to appear in Thessaloniki needs to retire all the forces of MATs around - around the space he will speak. They need to carry the transported fans with coaches - Mr. Panagioulis said it here - showing SYRIZA's messages, "Come on, we have you free coaches to take you to Thessaloniki because we need to have a big gathering". And that's why you're "nationally proud"? You're right. Let's go see what you got. You're saying you're reducing insurance contributions. For who? Only for freelance professionals and not for the rest. How much do you reduce them? Just a little. On the other hand, you get that you're reducing income tax. But, you, didn't take him to 26% and took him to 29% in 2015 when you came? Didn't you say you were taking him to 26% from 29%? Eventually, you're glad that you don't take him to 26%, you got him, but you're going to take him to 28% and you're going to - you say - in 2021 you're going to get it where he was at the Government of Samaras in 2014. And that's why you're celebrating! Irrespectively Savages! A little shame! I don't know what people have to say about all this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't talk much. Immersed in your idea of making a budget based on overtaxation on the one hand, overcrowding on the other. Don't talk about public investment. It's cut back there, too. Not to talk in general about the climate of investment. We stick to your ideas. In Greek you discovered that there are forests where planes landed. Suddenly, forests appeared, archaeological sites appeared, everything, as long as the investment does not go ahead. Nothing moves on. There is only one state that will distribute poverty. This is your vision. You're right. As for the economically weaker - because I hear that you are very interested in the weak - to say one thing: in these economically weaker people you have made sure that your 360 euro wage is paid. Because the generation of 360 euros is the generation of Alexis Tsipras and its "first" in Greece "left government". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude in thirty seconds. So I close with what I mentioned earlier. Today is a flag day. Greek Prime Minister Tsipras goes up to Thessaloniki. And he's coming up to say what? That he's nationally proud? The only ones who celebrate the Fishermen's Agreement, not the Ambassadors, with such an idea. You went to the fishermen, where Macedonia's separatism was once attempted, there you went to sign the agreement - the only ones to celebrate are Tsipras and Zaev. The whole political world is against it. It doesn't matter. The vast majority of the Greek people are opposed. It doesn't matter. Only you are proud. And you delivered what? You delivered to the Skopje what all Greek governments refused to do: you gave them identity, ethnicity, Macedonian you gave them so-called Macedonian language and today we have, unfortunately, reached the point even Greek MPs - I am sorry to say it before the National Representation - that some NGOs should also be made to teach the Macedonian language in Greece. In Greece? The "Macedonians of the Aegean", what does Zaev say? I'd say that with all of this, you can't be proud of yourself. In any case, if you want to offer a service at the place, speed up developments. And in democracy the only acceleration of developments is to set up the polls. The sooner you get the Greek people's answer, the faster you get. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u237	You're welcome. The next speaker is Mr Jason Fotillas from New Democracy. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u238	Last and lucky, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, although there is not one - it would be worth a camera panoramic to see who it is and who it is not, what political power is missing - as much as trying to baptize the fish, the Greek people know what the reality is. He experiences her every day. And reality goes beyond any imagination. The reality is that with what this government has oppressed, it has destroyed it. He took over the scop and promoted an agreement which, apart from the fact that he really believes or promotes it for other reasons, in any case what is truly impressive, is that in the extreme nationalist krone of Mr Zaev - the krone that caused the reaction of everything, from our northern neighbours to the "kombar" of the agreement, Mr Nimic - the only one left unspeakable, who had no word to say, was Mr Tsipras. He was oppressed with the Church, on the one hand to throw the ball into the platform from the burning issues and, on the other, to make thousands of appointments to the public. And what did he do? To cause such discord and division within the Church, which had them all fought with all: the Archbishop with the Metropolitans, the Metropolitans with Clergy, the Archbishop with Clergy, the Greek Church with Fanari, Crete, all of them fought with everyone. He was oppressed with the security of the citizens. And what did he do to ensure the safety of citizens? He voted for a law that - whoever does not know about it, let us hear from the Greek people - when the police authority finds that crimes such as little drug trafficking and drug use are being committed, thefts, the destruction of public or private property, what can the police authority do? Can he intervene? No, he can't interfere. Is the dean of the university who finds the same crimes, may he request the immediate intervention of the police authority? No, she can't ask. What does he have to do? To call on the Senate - something we all know that in some cases it takes days - and the Senate to decide, together, that they should call on the police authority to intervene. I don't know if it's for laughing or crying. As for the assholes, who's been mocking them from morning to night, they ask me: Why is he doing it? Expecting their vote? No, of course not. She thinks she's assured. What he wants from them tomorrow is that he will be in the opposition, be Roman, strong, alive, on the sidewalk, in the squares, in the bars, burning Athens. That's what Mr. Tsipras wants them to do, and that's why Mr. Tsipras is smiling at them at night. He was oppressed with the economy, and what did he do? Tell me one reason why we should tell him a 'bravo'. Why did he reduce old and new pensioners' pensions by 40% on average? Is that why we call him "bravo"? Why did he create multiple classes of retired people, primarily punishing those who worked most and who paid for more? Should we say 'bravo' to him why, he says, he will reduce all the tax rates and he promises that in a period of four years he will bring them back where he found them in 2014? I mean, he confesses how bad he did four years in the country. What about the excesses? This surplus is more fake than Baron Minhausen's greatest adventures. But how can you have the nerve to talk about surpluses when you have thousands of cleaners that are daily on the channels asking for the ten-month and ten-month-olds are unpaid, and the OAED tells them that to get paid, they must take insurance measures? And you have the nerve to talk about a surplus? How can you, once you have thousands of private workers, hired to small and medium-sized enterprises with subsidised European programmes, where the government has taken the funds and for a year has not been paying them to businesses, and in turn they do not pay them to the workers, who have been working and are not paid? And you have the nerve to talk about surpluses when you have thousands of doctors who owe them countless overtime and day off, who are the ones who keep your health system up - aren't they the abusers that Mr. Paulakis says are the heroes of the situation - and you tell them I won't give you what I owe you, but I'll take them and go do what I like, I'll give them where it suits me? That's their nerve! For the end I leave the great, the strong, the 'ethical advantage' of the government. You have come to bring the clearance and you have spoken of the greatest scandal of a state-recommendation, NoVARTIS. And finally, the treasure's carbon! And I am not saying that the treasure is carbon, you said it in the finding, which has the majority of the Greek Parliament. You are the majority of the Greek Parliament, so you say you have found nothing and send the file back. You're talking about a scandal in CEDEFOP, these infamous twenty-three, and you're trying to crucify Georgiadis, for which - by the way - the interrogator has put it in the file. But in any case, we are talking about twenty-three people who were hired to work for eight months in CEDEFOP, who have worked these eight months, and this whole story is 170 thousand euros. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know something else about waiters becoming millionaires and staying in swimming pool villas. I know a lady who was hired as a cleaner and worked as a secretary, and now we have a minister and she tells us that she's proud to be hired as a cleaner. No, ma'am! You'd be proud if you were hired as a cleaner and worked as a cleaner. You can't be proud of yourself being hired as a cleaner and working as something else. On the contrary, you should be ashamed of it. And the scandals? They're going and they're coming. That "Eleftherios Venizelos" has been sent back to us by the Europeans, because they say, "Hey, guys? That's harmful. And the following day the shareholder from 300 million took the offer to 1,300,000,000. You understand, I mean, 1,000 million! We didn't get a lot. Or we'd get a mess, I don't know, we'll see. We buy false companies, PPC, two months before the Ambassadors' deal. Well, there in the DEPA now the "part" is ministerial, it's not one, two, three, there's a lot of ministers. It is a big party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance, please. The same catastrophic policy is being pursued in health, to say a few words about health. You have created a so-called reform, the TWGs, to save the Primary, a reform that all the relevant bodies have condemned since the beginning. They came to committee and spoke to us, not one of them said anything in favour. It was condemned by the doctors themselves and condemned by the citizens themselves. And what's the result? Today, a year and a half later, fewer than a thousand doctors are invited to cover about 11 million patients. In Achaea, where I'm elected, it's thirty-two doctors for 280 thousand patients. Make division, see how many each should look. That is the big reform! As far as preventive health is concerned, because I've seen extraordinary budget spending, listen. We are the only western country that in 2018 had deaths of measles, thousands of cases, hundreds of doctors and nurses - and dead of measles. We count forty-seven dead from the Western Nile virus. And when I asked the Minister, he says to me: "It's unfortunate, because in 2015 and 2016 we didn't have it." Of course, sir, we didn't have because in 2013 and 2014 we did what we had to do, so in 2015 and 2016 we didn't have one. When you in 2015 and 2016 took the money to make it a surplus instead of making a preventive policy, in 2018 we have forty-seven dead. Ladies and gentlemen, bad lies. This government does not want growth. It does not conform to any form of development with the vision of Mr. Tsipras and his company. Mr. Tsipras does not want Greek workers in good and well-paid jobs, wants Greeks unemployed, who will be begging for the 300 euro allowance and he will be able to do whatever he wants. So don't expect any growth. Live and enjoy the last days of your power, because very soon the Greek people will place you where you really deserve it, at the "chronicle of History". Mr. Cremastino knows the phrase. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u239	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-14-S1-commons.u240	With the agreement of the House at 16.32 p.m., the meeting for the next Monday 17 December at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2019".
