ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Home Affairs and the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Finance, submitted on 26-10-2018 a draft law: ‘Resolution of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976’. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I will tell you the questions which will not be discussed. The fourth under number 55/11-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. The seventh under number 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Antiquities of violence have taken place in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement" will not be discussed. Eleventh under number 43/9-10-2018, a topical question for the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “About a philosophical event in Florina”, will not be discussed. The second, number 80/19-10-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “A process of licensing and retroactive taxation of online betting companies”, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. The second, under number 77/17-10-2018, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Recapitalisation and redeployment of the Greek banking sector", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. The ninth under number 19/3-10-2018 a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The remainder of the Molyviatis Fund" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou. The tenth under number 17/2-10-2018 a top-circuit question by MP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 to the aid of the East Attica" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. The third, with number 79-19-10-2018, top-stage question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Availability of secret funds”, will not be discussed due to an official visit of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos to Russia. The third, with number 68-16-10-2018, a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek government and making available for social purposes", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. The eighth Question No 36/8-10-2018 by Mr Christos Staikos, Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Staikos, Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. The sixth question under number 11/1-10-10-2018 in the second question of Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. So we begin with the first under number 86/22-10-2018, a top-stage question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Common work as an alternative form of sentence/Statistics." Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years a great deal of public controversy has developed on the intentions, pathogens and distortions of the legislative framework for the dismissal of the sentenced person's penitentiary, which has, of course, been introduced since 1993 by the relevant law - and others that followed - in our legal system. However, I would say that this dispute was intensified after 2015 when the then Minister, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, corrected or, in any case, changed the legislative framework by introducing the bindingity of the certificates of invalidity issued by the CEPOL, which the sentenced person invoked in order to obtain his release. And you corrected it a few days ago with an amendment introduced to a bill, which you brought to the House to vote on. Avoiding to target specific persons - because that is not the point - I am here raising this topical question to tell you that if the supreme priority that the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice has chosen to justify these legislation is the disinflation of the penitentiary stores, then there is another way to achieve this. And I am talking very specifically about the institution of providing social services as an alternative to creating restrictions on freedom of movement. It is one way to say - it is based on remedial and remedial justice, which prevents the risk of criminal infection, which the former criminal who has been in prison for a short time. In other words, it has to do with condemned low-priced violations rather than barpinites. It is also an institution which has been introduced into our Criminal Code with the related addition to Article 82 of the Criminal Code since 1991 and which has the following objectives: decongestion of the penitentiary shops, benefit from this alternative form of punishment and the economically weaker ones, namely those who do not have the opportunity to take the money out of the sentence imposed on them. And we're talking about low infractionality convicted. In addition, it can be applied under the following conditions. Firstly, the law should provide for it. That's true. Secondly, the convicted person should wish to do so. This may apply with the submission by him of the request to the authorities concerned. Thirdly, the judge must decide, that is to say, whether there is a decision on this matter and whether it is possible to apply it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u3	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u4	Ten seconds, Mr. President. That is, I would say, and the main point at the moment, given that by a recent joint ministerial decision of the beginning of 2015, with the prompting of the then Minister of Justice before the change of government, Mr Athanasios, the new list of services had been drawn up, with the possibility of accepting convicts for public works whether we have to do with services of the State, whether with local authorities or with legal persons of public and private law, which were included in that list, in order to be able to accept this alternative way of obtaining a penalty. I would like your views on the need to strengthen this institution and, in practice, because it is a question of applying this as an institution so that, through this way, the penitentiary can be dismantled, without, of course, having cases convicted of being fired by the shops without having fulfilled the entire sentence, but instead of having convicted cases which simply serve their sentence in the alternative that I described to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u5	Please have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u6	I will not repeat what we had the opportunity to discuss during the recent bill 'from now on'. And there I said that there is a general policy, a new penitentiary policy from 2015 to 2018. And, of course, the alternative way of creating a penalty, through the provision of public works, is an excellent institution, which we also safeguard and strengthen through specific decisions. I am going precisely to the question you have raised with your question, concerning the provision of statistical data at the level of implementation and application of this provision, the 82th Criminal Code, which you have dealt with, namely, in terms of assisting the formal, substantive conditions for its implementation. This information does show the aid that I have just told you. According to our Ministry's data, in the year 2014 we had a thousand five hundred eighty-nine detainees (1,589) who have been subject to this measure. Then in 2015 we had a thousand five hundred sixty-two (1,562). I'm going to submit these data to be at your disposal. And we have a significant increase of 40% in 2016, which we went to the two thousand five hundred two (2.502) while in 2017 we had two thousand six hundred forty-three (2.643). What also emerges from these specific elements, which are also in need of a qualitative study, namely how we are, how the social workers, the curators of minors and social education, are operating, and how the measure is supervised and implemented. You know well that, after the merger that occurred to the curators in 2014, we also had protagonists, specific cities, in particular detention stores where there were no specific units of caretakers. There's been a remarkable job here, too. I tell you, for example, in Agrini while in 2014 and 2015 we had no one subject to this measure, in 2016 we had fifty one (51), in 2017 we had forty one (41). And something you're interested in in your area, the Kavala County. If I am not mistaken, in Kavala, too, there was a problem because it was indeed a measure that, you know, needed reinforcement and assistance in its implementation. It seemed not to run the same way from prefecture to county, from city to city. We have been faced with two standards unjustly, in my opinion, because this method of alternative punishment is extremely important. So in Kavala, while in 2014 and 2015, we seem to have had no subjection, in 2016 we have forty two (42) cases and in 2017 forty (40). In your question, too - and I will go back to the denology - in relation to the necessary framework that we need to amend, in order to be subject to new public bodies, OTAs and so on. There was also a decision in 2016, on the Minister of the Interior of Mr. Parafopoulos, that we had the drafting of a new list of bodies involved in the implementation of this programme. Then there was something just as important. In 2017, with a new ministerial decision, there was also a new framework for the implementation of this reform measure to minors and a table of actors involving minors in that programme. Finally, it is extremely important to strengthen the exact caretakers, which I have told you before. There have been specific educational seminars and in the EMCDDA. There was also an excellent job, which was carried out in 2017, if I am not mistaken, by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis. It is a practical guide, which I will also put at your disposal, for the work of junior caretakers and social aiders. It is a useful guide for how exactly problems can be solved in practice and for this institution to be strengthened. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Because in the question you are addressing us, you are asking what is next planning in the next few days and because you realise that the hiring and transfer axis is also important, that is to say, how we will strengthen these structures with the necessary scientific staff, I will return to dentistry, so that I can become more specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes, to give a second. Please respect time, because there's your question after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, I know. I will not go far, Mr President, but I do not have much to say in disagreement with the Minister, because we do not disagree and, if we want to serve to improve the overall administration of justice in the country, we must have such discussions, at least in here, on the relevant terms of sobering and documented arguments, as is the case. We therefore agree that the institution of the provision of social services as an alternative to the creation of penalties should be strengthened. In order to do this, we must also strengthen the structures that provide these possibilities and strengthen them throughout the whole territory, in that regard, I would say, the strengthening of intellectual potential, particularly with regard to those who are necessary for social aid. Because, here, it is not just a question of being convicted of accepting or rather deciding on it to provide social work, of working for some time in a municipality, say, cleanliness or greenery services, but of being able, by providing socially advantageous work, to achieve social demobilization because of its criminal condemnation and to feel useful again in society and thus to complete so-called restoration justice. I would like to quote another passage from the book by Professor Nikos Paradiselou, entitled 'Penology', on this institution: The aim is to replace the short-term restrictions on freedom of punishment, with the result that detention shops are disintegrated and, above all, the exercise of a more just and effective penitentiary policy. The fact is that the short-term stay in detention stores is very little to serve, while the benefit of the conversion of the penalty into money is without object to financially weak citizens. So this institution provides another benefit. It is more due to the economically weaker. And for a government that has said - in theory at least - its sensitivity to the economically weaker, strengthening the supply of socially beneficial labour at all levels can help. The legislative framework exists, I have in mind the ministerial decision that improves this framework in terms of providing public benefits for minors, who are a 2017 decision, and you have rightly invoked it. It can therefore strengthen the whole institutional framework, but also the structures of the practical application of this institution, so that, through the institutional provision of social work, there can be a real and substantial disconversion of our penitentiary system, without having to resort to fragmentary or exceptional, it is assumed that interventions, such as those to extend the framework for the dismissal of detainees, which, because of their frequency, are almost systematic and continuous interventions in our penitentiary system and the conditions laid down for the dismissal of detainees. Thus, aid in any way whatsoever of the institution of the provision of social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased about this question, because I think that it is really the duty of all of us to inform society and to be in an open dialogue and consultation with regard to such an important institution, which can actually bring about these important theoretical and substantial results, which you have referred to. I am also pleased that we can call together today on the work of an excellent professor of law, such as Mr Paradise. Of course, I will repeat here, because you are well aware of the exceptional nature of provisions which are in the decongested direction, that we are called upon to deal with specific problems every time, both in terms of excessive number, but also in terms of conditions of detention. You remember that I provided concrete information on our country's condemnation of detention conditions, but also on the problems facing the country's penitentiaries and the political decisions that every time the head of the Ministry of Justice is called upon to take immediately, in order to deal with them. So what I think is useful in this dialogue between us, in addition to the information we have presented and you and I, is to inform you that only a few days ago there was a decision by the PHS committee, an act of ministerial council, 33/2006, with which we have the approval of sixteen transitions: eleven social assistance caretakers and five child caretakers. I'll give you the decision to inform you. I shall conclude by saying this. There is also a new joint ministerial decision, which is at the stage of collecting signatures. It will be published in the next few days. In this CSM, we provide for further strengthening of the implementation framework with a new list of actors involved in the implementation of the measure. Indicatively, you should know that the new bodies are the Municipal Company of Water and Sanitation, the Municipality of Monemvasia, the National Foundation of the abandoned child and single mother, Agios Georgios, the Municipality of Parga of Prevezis, the Municipality of Pogonios of Ioannina, various CommonsEp, the Municipality of Samothrace, the Sports Association of Magnesia, the Municipality of Nemea etc. I have a list of thirty-six new bodies, to which this category of prisoners can provide socially beneficial work. I will present this information, Mr President, for its inclusion in the Minutes and for the information of the honourable Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior "Repealing Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976". Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy MP Mrs Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 29-10-2018 to 15-11-2018 for orthopaedic surgery. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. We move to the fifth, with number 52/10-10-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Saridis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on "Obligation to apply the laws of the Greek state by the Greek courts of all levels". Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have a historical responsibility to bear your shoulders. We are in an extremely difficult political period and precisely because of the difficulty of this period, too many people have lost their faith on the foundations of our society. And these foundations, Minister, are democracy and justice. And if we are all in charge of democracy together so that we can cure the wounds that have been opened, on the question of justice you are responsible for giving solutions and you can reverse this climate that has been created to the Greek citizens as to whether or not the laws are applied. That was also the purpose, Minister, of the specific question I asked you, on the one hand, to help as much as possible to enable citizens to gain faith and trust in Greek justice and, on the other, to tell us your thoughts about the implementation of the laws or not. So for two specific ministerial decisions, my question is, for Ministerial Decision Z1-798/2008 and Ministerial Decision Z1-21/2011, as amended by the first by the second. These two ministerial decisions are clearly the laws of the State. My question, Minister, is this: Since the Greek courts do not question their constitutionality, should these laws, in your view, not apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u15	Mr Saridis, a debate on citizens' confidence in justice and politics is a great debate, for which all of us, with their role and duties, must be sober and careful. I have said many times that the removal, of course, of the citizens' confidence in politics is not separate, it is not independent of the loss of confidence and of justice and backwardness. We cannot think or believe that the citizen can turn his back - let me the phrase - towards politics and at the same time not to do so to the other institutions and, above all, to justice. This is a general remark. From there on, as far as the subject is concerned, I think it is self-evident - and you know it - that the judge should be given legal protection by the judge to the citizen, the independence of the judge, as is provided for in the Constitution, and the obligation of the judge not to apply a law which is unconstitutional, not to violate the Constitution and the laws, but also to oversee the diverse constitutionality we have in the courts. Now you are asking and you are indeed calling for two ministerial decisions, Z1-798, which is the first ministerial decision, which provided for the ban on the indication of the general terms of transactions that have been deemed to be abusive with irrevocable judicial decisions on actions, consumer associations in contracts concluded by credit institutions with consumers as follows. There is a list of them. This Ministerial Decision was subsequently indeed amended by Ministerial Decision G1-21. In your question, if I may, without wishing to point out the way in which the questions are asked, you do not mention anything else. In other words, have you noticed, do you have any evidence of an infringement of this ministerial decision, which has been denounced by the citizen and what is the outcome of this complaint? Do you consider any judicial decisions relating to disputes between a private credit institution and which seem to have not been taken into account as provided for in those Ministerial Decisions? Is there also a credit institution that has appealed against these ministerial decisions? Have they asked for the cancellation? These questions, as you can see, should exist in your place and there should be a provision of evidence in order to identify your concerns through specific legal cases or judgments, which seems to indicate, and in an irrevocable way, that these judgments are not taken into account. Otherwise, I think we are going to have a debate which is at least incomplete. If now in your dentistry you put specific figures, then I answer in advance that, because they have not been taken into account in the submission of the question, I will reserve the opportunity to see these facts and, if necessary, we will come back both you and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, during the debate of the bill of the "subjects" I talked about the weapons we offer to justice in this Chamber. You were present and heard my position, my introduction. I really wondered what justice would do to you if we did not give her those weapons so that she could do her job properly. The two ministerial decisions you mentioned, just as you mentioned, are two weapons which justice has in its hands so that it can make fair and fair decisions. I will present to you in the Minutes, Minister - and I honestly do not ask for your position on these cases here today - three judicial decisions which have not taken account of these ministerial decisions. We will come back to this when you actually have time to study these judicial decisions. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the judgments referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But my question is this: I would like you, Minister, to tell me - since there is no constitutionality - whether the Greek courts should apply ministerial decisions. Explore it from your side, after my statement, and we'll come back to it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u19	The answer to your question is self-evident. I have also set a general framework - I think - in a very simple way as to what the Constitution provides for, as to how judicial authority, judiciary operates, implements the law. It applies the law as she knows. It does not apply what it considers to be contrary to the laws and the Constitution. Also, you are well aware that ministerial decisions are regulatory acts, which delegated law produces law. They are taken into account, indeed. I expect to see the specific cases and the specific decisions you have tabled in the Minutes. As you can see, from there on we should see whether they are definitive, whether they are final, whether they are irrevocable, how and whether the general conditions are in breach of the ban on the listing of general terms of trade, as foreseen in these ministerial decisions and how. Of course, if need be, I'll come back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the last topical question today, namely the first with number 87/22-10-2018, a topical question for the New Democracy MP, Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou, towards the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Depte in the pocket puts the Greek for health on SYRIZANEL!" Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u21	On the occasion of the timely question I tabled, Mr President, it is the disappointing conclusions made by the Greek Statistical Office concerning the survey of family budgets for 2017. In particular, they deal with the health costs of Greek households, which come to reveal in the most deafesting way the communication lies and the lack of the government of Mr. Tsipras - and the Ministry of Health by extension - as to whether the so-called reform of primary health, for which the Minister is taking place, is fruitful and has results and whether it is worth celebrating for the almost a hundred miserable TOMYs that have been established in the country. However, there is no public health, even though the Greek citizen pays - either from his tax or his insurance contributions - many billions a year. I am not talking about private expenditure, which I raise as a topical question, which is 7.3% of the income of the Greek household, when 2012 was 6.4%. On SYRIZA, in other words, on the left-wing government, the private expense of the average Greek household increased either because I cannot find my doctor and there are weeks waiting for appointments - you know these as a doctor and as an expert on these issues - or because the surgery is delaying months and I am forced to go to the private hospital, the private diagnostic center. The Greeks, who have been afflicted for so many years in this tough budgetary stability programme - in the memoranda, the so-called one decade, when his income has already fallen, is forced to put his hand in a deep pocket to cover through private expenditure, which public health should cover. We are - listen - always according to the figures which I read in order to avoid any mistakes, the country that has the largest expenditure in Europe: 7.3%. The second is Bulgaria. Of course, because our fellow citizens are also listening to us, I would like to mention that in the United Kingdom the average household pays 1% of the medical expense from its pocket, in Spain, 3.4%, in Serbia 4.4% and in Italy 4.8%. In these countries, that is, households give much less than our poor and afflicted Greek fellow citizen. Because we have made him poor and afflicted, when he is forced to pay and pay for health for days of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u22	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to look at the real picture and from the point of view of numbers. First of all, it is true that in Greece we have a very high proportion of private health expenditure over time. He's always been on a level about 40%. At the overall level of health expenditure, that is, public spending is 60% and 40%, when - I remind you - the average expenditure in Europe is about 80% public spending and 20% private expenditure. It is also true that we had a long and dramatic decline in public health expenditure during the crisis. 2009 was 6.8% of GDP. In 2014, at the peak in my view of the country's health crisis, they fell down to 4.6% of GDP. These years have been an important effort and we have managed to reach about 5.2% in 2017. It's a small, marginal, but politically significant reinforcement. Since 2015, my dear fellow Member, have stopped cuts in public health expenditure. Already the ELSTAT data - there is the press release "High-Term Health Accounts System 2016", on March 30, 2018 - say that between 2015 and 2016 we have an increase in public expenditure and in absolute numbers, as from 8.4 billion in 2015 they go to 9.034 billion in 2016 - and as a percentage of 58.3% go to 61.3%. Similarly, we have a reduction in private spending and in absolute numbers and as a percentage. From 5.24 billion in 2015 to 5.057 billion in 2016, a 2.4% reduction. We also have a very important element in ELSTAT's studies, which says that the increase in public health expenditure is declining private spending and significantly reduces the proportion of unsatisfactory medical needs. Unsatisfied medical needs, which is a sensitive indicator of the health system's ability to meet people's needs, were before the crisis around 4% of the population, when the average in Europe is around 2% to 2.5%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In 2014, 2015 and 2016 they came to be around 14%, due to the crisis, poverty and exclusion in particular of the uninsured people who existed until 2015 and after a year, from the application of Law4368 for uninsured persons, between 2016 and 2017 they decrease to 10.9% of the population, i.e. the percentage of the population that does not meet their needs in a year falls from 14.4% to 10.9%. I think that is not a burden on the citizens or a deterioration in the financial burden that has been borne over the years of the crisis. The way that happened was first, with the law we passed for uninsured people. This year, in the first nine months of 2018, seven hundred sixty-four thousand individual, with different AMKA, uninsured people have been prescribed for medicines worth 162,000 euros, of which 93,000 are with zero participation, as well as for tests worth 52,000 euros. This is a considerable economic relief and not a burden for the citizen. Secondly, we abolished the five-way that you had put in, the access ticket that charged the weakest and poorest citizens of our country when they entered into a transaction with the health system. It was an expense of 22,000 euros. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would remind you that you had attempted - but there was a general outcry - to put an import ticket to hospitals of EUR 25, for which the Minister of Health at the time was in favour of his need. It did not, however, show the trend towards cost transfer that was clearly in place during the period when you were responsible for governance. Thirdly, we have now reduced the cost of EUR 1 per prescription since 15 October by EUR 20,000. We consolidated the recipes, no matter how much they are written, because you know very well that there had to be three medicines per prescription before. It was therefore reduced by this ministerial decision that we signed, by EUR 20,000, the burden on citizens when they take their medicines. We reduced by EUR 40,000,000 the burden of citizens when they choose genericly, by equating retail with the insurance price and by converting the category of 10% participation into zero participation when choosing generic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have budgeted, in the 2019 budget, 40,000 euros in addition to the EEAS to meet the needs of pediatric and dental care. These are interventions of measurable economic relief for citizens in recent years, which have nothing to do with the plan of passive privatisation that you have implemented with great consequence in previous years, compressing public spending and moving most of it into citizens' pockets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes. I would ask that we keep the time, because then you have - the New Democracy - and ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be specific and selective. In other words, the Minister cannot really deny the evidence, because what I have tabled comes from ELSTAT. That is why he said from the outside - on the outside - that we have a high private health expenditure, the first in Europe. I would simply remind him - because I have always spoken with ELSTAT's figures - that this Minister took the expenditure to 6.4% and reached 7.3%, that is, private health expenditure of 1% of the average Greek household from the sausage and successful public expenditure was increased. Secondly, it is a question of IOBE and Pharmaceutical Policy. Participation in the drug in 2012 was EUR 607 million, while in the Minister's day it was EUR 875 million. They put in their pockets for 268 million euros more, on the days of Blonde - Polakis. Regarding IOBE and the pharmaceutical market, these are on page 41 and Chart 26. Is that a relief? To get their medicine, another 268 million euros, shared by pensioners and workmen? Another item speaks of 5.2% of the health budget. Listen, this year, this year we are spending now, the budget is down by EUR 638 million of public expenditure. These are found in Table 321 and page 103. I am speaking in particular, Minister. It's 638m euros for this year. We went to 8.957,000 euros in 2018. Do you know how much you got her? It was an extra 638m euros last year. That is, in 2017 was EUR 9,500,000 - you had taken it in 2015 to EUR 10,000,000,000 - and took it to EUR 8,957,000. In fact, with the new supplementary statement you made, you are taking it to EUR 9,100,000. In other words, you raise 150 billion euros in front of what you have cut off in the four years of your office and Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras. Do you know how much that does? You say it yourself. It does 4.8% of GDP. From 4.9% that it was last year, you took it to 4.8%. Well, that's not 5.2%. Do you know what all this is about? Firstly, there is a shrinking of the life expectancy of the population. We have a charge. I mean, for the first time, life expectancy has fallen from eighty-one and a half years. We have an ageing population, an increase in the number of chronic diseases suffering in the absence of prevention and pre-symptomatic control. All of this is evidence that I shall submit here to the House. We also have an increase in mortality. We have from 2.9% in 2012 to 4.2% in 2016, Minister. Do you know what that means? It means ninety-four infants were lost over the year. We have an increase in perinatal mortality from 3.8% in 2011 to 5.4% in 2016. We also have a worrying stagnation of preventing mortality, especially in men. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say two facts and conclude. Minister, this policy of yours, the tragic public health and very favourable to private health and private health has brought another element. You will stay in history - and you cannot change this - as the Minister who received the virus of the Western Nile with fifteen incidents in 2014 and delivers it in 2018 with three hundred twelve cases and forty-six deaths, according to CEDEFOP. You received for the West Nile virus that was an extinct disease - you know, Mr Kremastine, better than anyone - with fifteen incidents in 2014, and we already have three hundred twelve incidents and forty-five deaths so far. Also, we are delivered measles with three thousand fifty - eight cases in May and four deaths! Do you know why I'm telling you this? I say this because I saw Programmatic Declarations of your own, Mr Xanthi, on 7-10-2015, where you speak of these fifteen cases and the minimum presence of measles. You say, in fact, that it was the disaster for the public health system and that, due to the nullification of the public health system from the previous - bad, poor, poor, for you - government, we had these fifteen cases. How should we name you and describe you for taking the fifteen cases and delivering them three hundred twelve to forty - six dead only for the West Nile virus? How can we characterize you and how can we name your health and Prime Minister Tsipras, with three and a half thousand cases of measles? So tell us what? In fact, I am using your own argument. I do not put a single 'and' or a'mutual' above. Minister, I am presenting the above-mentioned documents for the minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u28	Please, Minister, you have the floor and you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u29	I think there's a lot of nerve, really big nerve. You left two and a half million uninsured people, uncovered and institutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u30	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u31	It's not a lie at all, Mrs. Vulture. I'm not lying at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u33	Uncovered institutions from medical care. We've proved this with very specific elements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u34	How did you prove that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u35	You had charged them with debts of tens of millions of euros even for services that we had to offer them, which we deleted. I said the image that exists beforehand. These about 200m euros a year for a drug of uninsured citizens were private health expenditures in your years or were incomplete medical care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u36	Tell us: Now where are you paying her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u37	Stop this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u38	No.4238 what was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u39	Stop that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u40	Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u41	Secondly, the health system knows about the whole health world. In 2014 he was on the limit of the operating blackout. The budgets did not come out, there were terrible deficiencies in drugs very sensitive to very critical population groups, such as seropositives, such as transfusing people, such as people who have serious oncological problems. This story is over. The health system is upright and above all accessible. Is the period of health poverty finished in which you put the country and have the nerve to talk about burdens?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u42	You want evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u43	I have shown you that private health expenditure - these are the elements of ELSTAT - is being reduced in the country and in absolute terms and as a percentage of GDP, and above all, inequality, because people who are not taking care of from 14.5% have now gone to 10.9%, within a year of the law. It is a disgrace - just because you have nothing to do with the health field - to use evidence related to morbidity markers, in indicators of infectious disease influence and to indicate whether a Minister is good or bad. We have an outbreak of new infections across Europe. The measles epidemic with fatal cases was in all the countries of Europe. It's a disgrace to speak that way. And the "western Nile"...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u44	What did you guys say about health in 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u45	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u46	In 2015, how did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u47	Please, Mr. Economou!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u48	In 2015, he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u49	Please very much. This criticism of how many deaths we have from flu, how many from the Western Nile virus, people, scientists, the country's epidemics are listening to it and laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u50	There it is. It's yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u51	It is disgraceful that Qualified Opposition is using this type of controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u52	There it is, it's your words. Are they mine? I filed it. What a nerve that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u53	So I say this. There was a huge relief in the field of health, which was the survival of public care and the access of the uninsured. I told you the concrete reduction measures. The five-storey that you put, which burdened 22 million euros in the world, we abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u54	6 percent who put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u55	Reducing drug involvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u56	6 percent who put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u57	Please very much, she doesn't need a lawyer, Mrs. Vultures. Please very much. Mercy, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Vulture, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u59	6% on pensions who put it in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u60	We say, therefore, that there have been specific relief measures to the medicine, particularly where there is a great deal to do in the world and at this time we are promoting a plan to increase productivity, to improve the efficiency of the public health system in areas where too many people are burdened, such as laboratory tests, such as physical therapy, rehabilitation and such dental care. Forty million less will go away, they will not come out of the citizens' pockets in 2019, because EEAY will cover child care. Forty million less people don't pay since mid-September the citizens who get generic for chronic diseases and twenty million less don't pay since 15 October for unifying the recipe and all the drugs are with a prescription. In any case, I acknowledge - and I said at the outset - that in our country we have a great burden on the citizens to have adequate health care. We are moving towards a gradual strengthening of the public health system and we believe that this is the answer. The Prime Minister has come out and says that we should be converging with the average European terms, approaching 7% of public health expenditure in Europe rather than 5% to 5.2% that is today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u61	It's 4,9%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u62	We have said we need to invest in public care. What exactly do you think? You are criticised for many times by adequate weaknesses and problems that the health system has in our country. What's your alternative political plan? You want a bigger investment in the health system? Do you want more costs? You want more staff? Do you want more budget support in this effort? Do you want public spending to increase and converging with the average European conditions? I've never heard the New Democracy say that. So that's the reality. I really think that in the period 2013-2014 the public health system and people's health needs have been at their worst. There has been a huge effort in these years and the consolidation of the system and universal coverage of citizens and a reduction in burdens and moralisation and the resolution of public health. These are huge reserves, they are investing in social cohesion and the dignity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 1/8-10-2018 by New Democracy MPs Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Sophia Vultesis, Charalambous Athanasios, Savva Anastasiades, Ioannis Andrianou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antoniadis, Photinis Arabatzis, Anna - Misel Asmachopoulou, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, George Vagios Vagios, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Constantino Vlas, Georgios Vlachos, Mavroudidis, Ioannis Vroutsis, Georgios Georganda, Spyrionos - Adonos Georgiadis, Georgiou Giakou, Stergiou Yannakis, Vassiliou, Khassiliou (Kavsanis), Athanasios Khassssiou (Kalakis), Athanasanisiosou (Kashani) Karamanli, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgios Karasmani, Georgios Kassapidis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Konstantinos Katsafantou, Georgios Kedikoglou, Christos Kella, Nikos Kerameos, Olga Kefalkoyiannis, Ioannis Kefaloniannou, Vasilios Kiilia, Emmanuel Konsofala, Konstantinos Konstantinou, Konstantinos Kokodimos, Georgiou Kumoutsuba, Andreas Koutsou, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Catherine Markou, Georgia, Nottinos Moutarakis, Theodos Kantolios Kosikoukos, Ioannis Kyrimatou, Ioannis Konstantinosstantinos Kosos Kosostou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosilios Kosilios Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosilios Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosilios Kosos Kosikosos Kosiliou, Kosos Kosos Kosos Kosilios Kosiliou, Iostou, Klososstanou, Klososstaniakonososstaniakonososstaniakonosos Kosos Kosos Kolosos Kosos Kosos Kosos Kosos Kosos Kosostou, Kosostou, Kosostourostourostourostourosstaniaosstaniasos Kosos Kososstaniasiliou, Kosiliou, Kosiosiosiliou, Kosos Kosos Kosostouros Kosos Kosilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisososos, Kouros Kosososososososos, Kouros Kosos Kosos, Kourostou, Kosososososososos, Kouros, K The honourable Members who will receive the floor are Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, who will have the floor for ten minutes of protology and five minutes of dentex, Mr. Vassilis Kikilis, who will have the floor for five minutes of protology and three minutes of dentex, Mrs. Sophia Vultou will have the floor for five minutes of protology and for three minutes of dentex, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios Athanasios, who will have the floor for five minutes of protology and three minutes of speech, Mr. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsas, with twenty-minute protology, ten-minute dentology, five-minute tritology, the Deputy Minister for National Defence Mr. King, with ten-minute protology, five-minute dentology, three-minute tritology, and the Minister for Health Mr. Xanthos, who will have ten-minute protology, five-minute dentology and three-minute tritology. The parliamentary representatives who will speak are: from New Democracy Mr. Dendias, who will have 12 minutes of protology, six seconds of protology, three minutes of tritology, Mr. Psychogios on behalf of SYRIZA, who will have six minutes, on behalf of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos for six minutes, from Golden Dawn Mrs. Zaroulia for six minutes, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs. Manolakos for six minutes, from ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos for six minutes and from Potamis Mavrotas for six minutes. The Centro Association has not declared itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u66	Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, before the topical question begins, because yesterday on the Northern Epirus, a Greek man was murdered in the Albanian regime that persecuted Hellenism because he wanted the Greek flag to be waved on 28 October, I would like to ask that a minute of silence be observed by Parliament in the memory of the thirty-five-year-old Constantine Katsifa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u68	I think that there is no objection to the memory of this man being honoured, but that of one minute's silence is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We must have a decision from the Conference of Presidents. But no doubt, we honor the memory of the man who fell. I would ask Mr Varvitsiotis, first honourable Member of the New Democracy, to take the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I think that the death of Constantine Katsifa has shocked everyone, particularly the day of the National Age and the national reason for it. So, Mr President, I would say that at the first opportunity the Conference of Presidents should take this decision and honour its memory, as should the memories of all the people who lose their lives defenders of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is coming to answer. He's not coming to make any speeches or masturbations. After three and a half years of dealing with the refugee and immigration issue alone, today the three present ministers, who have more time in total than all the questioners - unprecedented in parliamentary terms! - I hope they will respond, because while our country has accepted the greatest aid it has ever received from the European Union, it has managed to be at the heart of the international criticism of the situation that prevails with regard to the hospitality of immigrants in the country. Images of shame, images of inhumane treatment, insecurity images of impoverishment are the ones transmitted today from the Greek islands, which are transmitted at any stage of the management of the refugee and immigration issue. And while there is agreement on how this management is to be done, this agreement with the government's responsibility is not implemented. There are zero returns to Turkey, zero returns to the countries of origin, slow, tormentingly slow asylum procedures. Of course, all this at a time when the flows don't justify anything extraordinary. There are no emergencies. We do not live in 2015, when eight hundred and fifty thousand people crossed our borders, nor in the beginning of 2016, which another hundred and thirty thousand crossed our borders. This year twenty-five thousand people have come to the Aegean islands until today and eight thousand from Evros and they cannot be managed by the government, having at its disposal a huge arsenal of economic, legal and international support unprecedented. It cannot manage and offer survival conditions that match human dignity, transparency conditions that match European legal culture and, of course, safety conditions for islands and other Greek citizens who have shown with a large amount of humanity the feeling of hospitality that possesses them. The government's international criticism is unprecedented. Only in the last month twenty of the world's major news media networks have made headlines, culminating, of course, in the last visit of German MPs to Moria, where the title that came out and was released everywhere is "Moria bad, very bad". Twenty articles, in which he has not received a press release, to answer: minor rape, drug trafficking, extensive prostitution, health hazard. I, Minister, will present again to you all twenty publications, where there is no comment on the Greek side. Nobody! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And today our country - which you want to present as a pillar of stability, as the Prime Minister has told us today, and how much it will attract investment in tourism and others - emits this image. In the questions raised by the Opposition and by me personally, the answers are always poor. As soon as the government earlier agreed to give a partial reply to the contracts it has drawn up for the management of these funds, and indeed to a question from the river. And I want to thank them for giving me a copy of the answer. There have been so many unanswered questions, which I have occasionally put in public, and which answers questions posed by the press, with arrests, handcuffs, persecution, as he has done all the time. The questions put by the government’s partners themselves do not dare to answer. I would remind you that from the Ministry of Migration Policy, since its establishment to date, seven top officials have left: three Directors of the First Reception Service, three Secretary-General and one Special Secretary. The latter, and Mr Iliopoulou, on a number of questions, which, after our own encouragement, have also caused justice to be controlled, after the check carried out by the European services for the management of money. To these questions, we expect you to answer today and explain to us why, while there are no exceptional circumstances, you continue to manage all the funds with a "blue" of the law, which gives you the right to make contracts in the event of exceptional circumstances. There is no extraordinary treaty and do not say again that the flows have risen dramatically. There is no dramatic increase in the flow of data, according to your data, which your Ministry publishes. And can I tell you something? Once Mr. Kammenos had said that the army is not catering, in reply to Mr. Toska who then asked Idomen to go to the army to meet the needs. Looks like you made the army fast food with the fast track procedures. A hundred and twelve million, the vast majority for feeding and no competition! Direct awards, hand-made tenders, renewals, no controls on expenditure and 'partner' continue. The world rose up, the media wrote, but "Other is raining." Only in the last month have you renewed to three PPP contracts for only one month or fifteen days, and you have not even proceeded with an international competition for the feeding of immigrants. Not even one of them! You say that "for two hundred people we host somewhere we will make an international tender and say two hundred portions of food you will bring us in the morning - noon - night. Who can bring them?’ Nobody, three and a half years now! You know what? The Ministry of Migration Policy has become the best partner anyone could ever imagine. You are building an immigrant accommodation area in Lower Milia Pierea and you are renting a field at a price of EUR 2,500 per month. Who do you rent it from? You rented it from a lady who rented the field from their owners compared to 2,500 euros a year! Do you understand? If it's not dissipation, mismanagement, corruption, then what is it? What is the fact that in Moria next you rent a space, a 20-square field, compared with 2,000 euros a month? What is the fact that for two years now you have announced that you will solve the problem of Moria waste water and even millions fall to the contractors, why does it not relate to the pipeline? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. What is the fact that according to what Mr Kammenos said - not what has really happened, why has he not answered for the whole - of the EUR 85 million in all contracts, the EUR 10 million have been given directly and without publication of the other EUR 57 million? So when will this 'part' continue at the expense of the people who are knocking our door, the public image of the country, the European budget and the national budget - because many of these expenditures will never be able to collect them back - and, of course, by creating conditions to embroider extremisms in the consciousness of the citizens who want to feel and are hospitable to the downtrodden, you also create in these conditions the feeling of insecurity that something is hidden? I'm going to tell you more in my denture, but today, don't really come to this Step to make reasons for us. Come finally and give us answers and tell us how you intend to improve the situation in which you have brought the country, its citizens and the hosts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. My colleague, Mr Kikilias, has the floor. Do you want to take your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like both protagonists and dentology together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u72	You have the floor for eight minutes, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we really live the day of marmotta with you. In 2015, it was me, Miltiades Varvichiotis. The same questions, the same anxiety, the same issues! Three and a half years later you are accountable to us, to colleagues and to the Greek people, because first of all you betrayed the number one principle - supposedly - that you had, your humanism. Listen, in order to reach agreement quickly and to get real answers, Mr Ministers, today. You were swinging the finger on Mr. Tents for Amygdaleza and for what it did not exist, an organised and structured immigration policy, which the New Democracy government established, at a time of crisis, that the wars were going on in Syria and Iraq. I succeeded him. The flows were reasoned, the problem was dealt with and there were closed pre-repeal centres. You were all yelling at humanity, about human rights, about how we treat refugees, economic immigrants and illegal immigrants, and you came to power in 2015, you caused a huge crisis in the country and in Europe from which Europe is still struggling to get out - if it ever comes out - by opening up our borders and saying - the Prime Minister and you - that we have no maritime borders. And one million people went through the country, went to northern Europe, closed our northern borders and had images like Idomen, images of shame for the country. You were called all over Europe and said it rained. Some, in the end, unlucky fellow men stayed here. What did you keep for them? You kept eighty Amygdales all over the country - you were shouting about air conditioning in Idomeni in Dendia - where the conditions with the peak of Moria are tragic and an emergency situation that you were asked to manage on your own, changing the laws of the state. And because of the emergency and the humanism of what you invoked the direct assignments of food, housing, guard, and so on, their refugees were taken over by the Ministry of National Defence. So we're coming now, three and a half years later. I want you to explain a few convincing questions to the Greek people, to our fellow citizens who are still struggling and you are not signatories to benefits at the theoretical level to allegedly ease the pain and burdens of the two crises, the economic crisis we have managed by closing the banks and charging the country 200 billion for refugee - immigration, as you developed it in Europe and Greece. So I ask you: after three and a half years - four years where are the international competitions that any serious government and ministers would do in order to ensure the public interest and put a fundamental part into order? What? That the conditions of Lausanne and the protection of refugees and migrants, Mr Minister, says that we are feeding them, sleeping them, providing care, taking care of them until the cause is lifted, so war and returning to their countries. And of course, there is a separation, as the European Constitution says, of refugees and economic migrants, of illegal immigrants staying in closed pre-repeal centres to get back. You only have open centers all over Greece. Jurisdiction, violations, rape, pre-conflicts, deaths, suicides are your humanism and on the part of management there are endless questions. You have never given any of the New Democracy's two refugee - migrant sectorers any information about contracts and direct awards to the rough tenders. And this is something for which you are not being renounced by the major opposition or the minor, but by your own MPs with public complaints in the middle of the local - if you remember - but the three general secretarys of your Ministry and a special secretary who resigned. So there is no question of confrontation with colleagues. New Democracy is coming again after multiple questions here for three and a half years to tell you the obvious thing about you, that you have not done your job properly, and you are controlled for that, you are controlled by the Civic Opposition, you are controlled by the European mechanisms, you are controlled by the local communities that have been plunged. And you insist that you do not give answers as if you do not know that in a democracy there is eventually a alteration of power with responsibility and by the vote of the Greek people and at some point, whether you want or not, all of this will be checked and, as you can see, the time is at a time when the crew of the time for those who have not been able to pay the price comes. So I, as a kind man and a fellowman, think you were in the mood to do everything right. You are entitled to an answer, because you have not made a tender for this whole issue of security, food, housing these three and a half years. I am afraid that a convincing answer, ladies and gentlemen, does not exist for that. Specific contractors, who give them to specific subcontractors, should you ask your fellow Members in the Northeast Aegean islands to speak with names. If you ask the attendants around - around the centers what local communities are, too, will tell you. You think that we are living in another country and that after all these years of crisis, the Greek society does not understand what is happening or sees that you cannot or do not want to run. If you can't, tell us. Equivalent to your crime, however, there is and is huge. You have opened our borders, let the country be a clear vine, smashed the lives of these people, humiliated them, have them and live as human beings, and you have moved the finger so many years and told us about humanity. Never, ever, ever, in the years of the rule of New Democracy and in my own ministry or Miltiadis Varvitsiotis there were no such matters. There was a tragic event in the Aegean Sea and you stood on this whole specula. Listen, we're waiting for answers. And yet, I'll tell you what we'll do. We will also check the flows in Evros, which you have left him and put from above, Mr Ministers, both in the Aegean islands and in the sixteen and a half thousand maritime miles of our maritime borders. We'll separate refugees from economic migrants. We'll have closed predatory centers for the two and they'll return to their homelands. We will implement a structured and organised immigration policy. International food and storage competitions will be held. We will respect these people, but we will also respect the societies of Greek citizens on the islands, which are small, limited and grazing. They will resurrect the neighborhoods of Athens, which have left it to be a clear vineyard and crime, infraction, fornication, fornication, traficking, drugs and by this phenomenon, illegal immigration, unfortunately, is a reality in every neighborhood of the city. We will not allow our citizens, the Greek citizens, to live that way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in twenty seconds. Listen, you do have a long time to answer all of you. After three and a half years and before the revelations, which have now seen the light of publicity, and those that happen in every local society and those for which the executives blame you on the doctrints, which you appointed as general secretaries or special secretaries or directors of these centres, you are obliged to reply to us: Firstly, because you have done your job poorly, creating a huge issue of security, internal or external, in the country and in Europe, with consequences that we have not yet seen. Secondly, because after four years and huge funds you have not been able to prove to us that you have managed these in a transparent manner, with clarity and with the benefit of these unfortunate people, refugees and Greek taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed with Mrs Vulture. Please, Mrs. Vulture, would you like to use all your time now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u75	I'll try to keep my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, looking for the reasons for the situation in which we are today, in terms of immigration, there are two versions: the version of stupidity and the version of feasibility. Because it is stupid to believe that the country can open its borders and enter one, one and a half, million people and last them. Because that's what you were saying. You said you'd bring them here, you'd generally invite them, they took the messages, they were on the Turkish newspapers websites, now the government has changed, Tsipras came and welcomes you. This is stupid, however, because Greece cannot afford another and a half million people. It is stupid, too, to think that a million people will pass through the disgrace of Heaven and Europeans do not come to shut you down, as has happened. Because it was and was not an individual energy, it was a decision by the Europe of twenty-eight that the Skopje should close the border. If you now do not accept the version of stupidity, which I do not accept, let us go to the interpretation of feasibility: I think you deliberately caused this chaos, deliberately, proceeded on the basis of a plan, because you sought money out of a memorandum, apart from the control of the lenders, to manage it according to your will, without giving an account, to set up a million-dollar dance and turn the supposed management of immigration into a big business. I finally understand that only you guys got out of the memorandum, all the rest of us stayed inside. Because here, with Mr. Kammenos, the Minister of Defence has the lion's share, millions fly over our heads with direct assignments all the time. And don't tell me that all the evils fell on your head because the war in Syria started in 2011 and entered its take-off in 2013. Then you and Nadia ran to Kobani, if I remember correctly, and millions of refugees came to the camps in Turkey and did not take place on your day. The major crisis was nowadays, but we could control the situation. You have, however, made a general invitation for this reason, which is why I am telling you and did so systematically before the elections and after the elections. In 2015, while you were going for capital control and destruction, you also passed a law on second generation immigrants, sending a signal that whoever comes here will easily take citizenship. Then you continued, you attended the European Union-Turkey Agreement that causes caging. You wanted him enclavism on the islands to work on the feeding companies and all the other companies. Then you also made a law in 2016 that you, in essence, abolished all the other laws and the detention law, which was always in existence and which all the favoured countries have. Because anyone who illegally enters the country is being held. And that's what you've done with it. I can't believe you did all this innocent and nice. The Ministry of Defence, with the Ministry of Defence, the GAA and the GEN - and I am very sorry that what you sent me, Mr Vitsa, in reply to me, are invoices signed by the leaders, all by direct commissions - has taken over everything, feeding, cleaning, supplies, electrical equipment, bus leases, space leases. Everything's with direct assignments. You have, of course, taken care and became legitimate - you will tell me, of course - by voting for the famous article 96, which is an amendment by the Ministry of Defence, by Law No.4368, which allows you to do so by way of derogation from any other provision and to do so without a call for competition. Then Mr. Kammenos told us that meals have ISO. Apparently they have ISO SYRIZANEL. And if you look at the contracts you've given me, you should've seen that all the sums are equal, to be in one case under 20 thousand, in the other under 60 thousand. The same company appears to be cutting three tariffs equal to the same day, the other company cut into continuous days on the same subject. When the award is made through a concise tender, then we have a third company that enters and cuts equal tariffs. Take a look! You have the invoices! Many of the invoices have surgical accuracy, 211.320 euros. So your suppliers know what the immigrants will need. You are still in the state of emergency, and you say that since the circumstances are exceptional and unforeseen, we do not know. And how do your suppliers know and cut the same tariffs accurately at the same time? Then they all show up together making a group of companies on the islands. If you see the invoices you have given us through parliamentary control, they speak for themselves. It is all your contracts that are problematic, precisely because you are directly awarded. And you don't have to answer that. Don't come and tell us 'we've checked everything out.' If he's on a direct assignment, what have you checked? The other comes, looks and says "yes, since he's directly assigned, says the law" and gets up and he's leaving. So what's he gonna do? They will, however, all see that companies are specific, with a certain amount of balance and then go and get through with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the unpleasant position to discuss again aspects of the major issue of immigration, due to the acts and omissions of this government, which have a sense of a serious scandal. Unfortunately, as long as the same people remain in the government, this will not be the last time this House will be discussed. In the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, we have had different phases in the management of immigration, and the small historical reference is important, in view of our subject. At first we had the period during which, according to the Prime Minister himself, there were no sea borders and, therefore, for quite a long time, our country has not done much to ensure them. It was a time when, while migration flows increased, the Minister responsible said that "there is no question, because they are simply melted in the squares". Clearly, the situation has quickly become uncontrolled, especially with the intensity of the refugee flows. The islands bordering the coast of Asia Minor have managed numbers of immigrants and refugees who are unknown and beyond their capabilities. Of course, the government was completely untrue and unprepared. Then came the time of the all-government of non-governmental organizations. Some of them, little, are of unknown value. We cannot put in the same category "Doctors of the World" or "Doctors Without Borders", most of which are completely unknown. However, as there was neither a state nor a state to do what it had to do nor even to control them for years, they acted uncontrolledly and in many cases replaced the state. At least a hundred and fourteen NGOs have told me by the Minister responsible, Mr Vitsats, to my recent question and who knows how many others before registration begins. No essential institutional framework, very late registration, no fiscal, economic, financial, no accountability. At the same time, our country began to have access to very important European resources to deal with the issue. Over 1.6 billion, as detailed in our question. Some of these apparently went to NGOs. But no one knows exactly how much and what. Others have not been able to take them, because of uncertainty and incompetence, while an incomprehensible amount has been entered into the accounting surplus, which you are seeing, Mr Ministers, in order to tell you a budgetary success, but which is not serious. Now, no one believes you in whatever you say or do. In addition to this, however, it is true that a very important amount has been received and managed by the government itself, especially money that is to satisfy all the basic needs of these people. And I'm talking about feeding and housing. What's the result? There is a large number of reports and complaints about mismanagement of these funds. Recent evidence submitted by the Ministry of National Defence in Parliament has shown that more than 80% of feeding contracts are made by direct awards, bidding and negotiations. Of course, there is a legislative framework which the New Democracy has not voted on. But then the justification in the explanatory statement was that there were emergencies. The emergency needs, however, continue to exist, Mr Ministers. And like the case law of the European Court of Justice now, the emergency is combined with the unforeseen. But now it's predictable everything. And we ask ourselves: Why don't you make a competition? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Only for the islands of Lesvos, Samos and Ko twenty-eight, of the thirty million euros available, were shared without serious, but mainly transparent, competitive procedures. There is now a serious suspicion that either there is a sharing of money in "loan" or that the government can tolerate cartel phenomena in the field of feeding or both at the same time. You have to be sure that everything will be checked. We are not responsible for anyone now, but all will be controlled, especially those who act on the islands, especially in my own country, Lesvos. Other explanations do not exist after so many years of experience. The government had nothing to answer the complaints. Already from the topical question we had tabled two years ago and discussed on 24-10-2016, we had taken into account the complaints and problems related to the management of migration funds. Since then, we have also tabled innumerable questions, reports, topical questions and yet even if other ministers have been through from your position today, Mr Vitsa, the answer has always been and remains the same, that everything has been done properly in the light of the circumstances, that the funds have been managed in full transparency and that, for the situation on the islands, the main responsibility is for the states of the European Union, which are responding to their acceptance of the number of asylum seekers applying for refugee status. In addition to this, however, I personally drew your attention to the contradictions and inconsistency - I kindly call it inconsistency - to which your predecessors, Mr Mouszalas and Mr Kourublis had suffered. The first question to me was that the Ministry responsible for the control of NGOs other than reception and identification stores is the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, namely the Aegean and Island Policy Secretariat. However, in my recent question, Mr Kourublis replied that the Ministry of Migration Policy is a competent authority for the control of NGOs. And that was all? Even now, when the country is being investigated and divided pan-Europeanly, as it is being investigated by OLAF for what I have just said, the government has nothing to say at all. Absolutely nothing, and we're waiting to hear something. But what can you say, Minister? As you had nothing to say in the sixty-four questions we have tabled and most of which have been unanswered. As you had nothing to comment on and on the complaints made by the Director of the Reception and Identification Service, Mr. Ilioopoulos, which you have received through rapid, concise procedures. It is true that there is indeed no control. And, because there is no control, some are speculating on the backs of Greeks and European taxpayers, at the same time as the condemned waste oath has the ultimate effect of hosting refugees and immigrants in reception and identification centres where conditions are inhuman and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Athanasios exhausted some of the denology together. He left fifteen seconds of kavanja, which they say in the popular language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mrs Vulture gave me a minute, which only spoke for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u80	Mr Mitterrand has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u81	I will leave a little time for Mr Athanasios if you allow. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unacceptable immigration and humanitarian crisis that we are experiencing in our country has the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You, who were evangelizing humanity, created with your politics, your ideas, with your inability to do so, Moria, Vial, Vathy. And today, after sixty-four questions, Mr Ministers, you are asked to give substantial answers to the Greek people and especially to the inhabitants of the Aegean islands, whom you have left alone to deal with a problem that goes beyond the possibilities of local communities and the means they have. Recently, Minister, you came to Chios and spoke to the city council. The common view of all is that you have given no substantial response to the objectives you have as a government and especially to the way in which you will lead to the decongestion of the Aegean islands. We can see the migratory crisis in two periods. From the day of your election, which, with the open borders policy, has led a million people to enter the Greek territory, and up to the European Union-Turkey Joint Communication, a period with great flows, with chaos and our infrastructures in an emergency situation. And then came the second period, which was reduced and, now, not a state of emergency, which you had to take advantage of the new data and face up to the real problems that exist in managing immigration, which you did not do. The price, of course, of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, as you have implemented it, is to make our islands in stores of souls. Our islands became the place where refugees and immigrants were caught. You have failed on six key points: firstly, you have failed to take advantage of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. You could have decongested the islands by relocating to Turkey those who are not entitled to international protection, as provided for in the communication, and by opening up Europe's way to those receiving asylum. Today neither the asylum procedures are working. Is it a matter of incapacity or is it a matter of choice? And with Law 4540/2018 you were supposed to allow the free movement of asylum seekers on Greek territory. In reality, however, this does not apply and is still in existence in Mytilini, Chios and Samos, and, of course, the shortening of the time limits of administrative procedures with the same law, of course, and it does not work because there is no substantial reorganisation of the procedure. There are no means for faster recording and, above all, fewer stages in the process. Secondly, you have not set up an effective early warning system for those crossing our maritime borders so that the Greek authorities can effectively alert FRONTEX before refugees and immigrants enter the Greek maritime area. This, of course, is part of a more general failure by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to actively protect our maritime and land borders. We must give the message in every direction that Greece is not a clear vine, that it has laws and rules on who comes in and who lives in the country. This, of course, requires consultation with our partners both in the European Union and in NATO. The third point of failure is the non-separation of refugees and immigrants. Thus, neither can refugees be effectively protected, while people are constantly being cumulated on the islands that should return to their countries, but the conditions have not improved for those who are in the Cyts and for the residents. I should like to point out that you have important responsibilities for the situation with unaccompanied children, which almost half are now outside hospitality structures, according to the information we have. Fourthly, the FMDs are health bombs. Mr Minister of Health, in your reply, dated 29 November 2017, to a question I tabled you admit that they are beyond the doubles of BIAL in Chios, that there are very serious problems with wastewater leakage and other public health issues. You admit, you do nothing and the region is now coming and you will be asked, like the Municipality of Chios, to close these recording centres. Fifth and particularly important point, which has also been mentioned by the Members who spoke before me, is the issue of opacity, that you are managing hundreds of millions, without complying with the rules that a State must have in the management of public and European funds. You may argue that in 2015 we had a state of emergency. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, this is no longer the case. Nothing has happened since the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, to change the procedures and make transparent invitations to the costs of immigration. This has also led to the resignation of seven senior officials from the Ministry of Migration Policy. However, the worst impact of your policies is that you have divided local communities, leaving them to deal with a problem that is solely the responsibility of the state to manage. You have to answer to the islanders: Why are thousands of people currently stacked, while the islands should only be gateways of short stay, registration and separation of those who are entitled to international protection with those who are not entitled to international protection? Why for four years have you been supposedly operating in an emergency and you cannot normalise the situation? What impact does this have on public spending and European funds? Why do you divide the Greek people and do not solve the problem that you have created? Today we have three ministers in plenary. We expect concrete answers, not the blessings and genealogies you have used to us. You have to tell us what specific you will do to improve the situation, what specific you will do to dismantle our islands, what specific you will do to manage public expenditure more correctly, what specifically you will do to improve the status of asylum, what you will do in particular to bring back to your neighbour those who are not entitled to international protection. These answers are expected today by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u82	This is Mr. Metarakis and Mr. Athanasios. As if you had agreed, Mr. Athanasios. Well, if the judges don't save time, what are the lawyers supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u83	I am here as a Member of Parliament, Mr President, and you have spoiled me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u84	Four ministers will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u85	Okay. The same applies to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u86	It's good to hear some things about the islands, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I am pleased that there is a good climate in the Chamber. This is due to you, Mr President. As long as the government proves it today. I would like to turn your memory into the Minutes of the meeting of the previous topical question tabled by the New Democracy, with a number of Members, including, my Minister, I was also. It is worth mentioning that debate, because then we did not get convincing answers to the questions we asked. I sincerely would like to remind you that the debate took place on the occasion of the resignation of Mr Buddour. Now the bucket is unfolding. What's going on? Mr. Varvichiotis said seven resignations. We therefore have six resignations of special secretaries, Secretary-General, officials for the management of immigration and an additional resignation coming with Mr. Ilioopoulos. I would remind you that at that time the Secretary of Migration Policy, Mr Buddour, left doubts about the opaque process of managing money on hot spots, and now Mr Helios comes back and raises issues of transparency. Now, however, the government also shows its intention to create a acquis right, that anyone who wants to appoint and who wants to "retire". He asked for the resignation of Mr. Iliopoulos. So, basically, what's going on? Repeat the same story. While we are trying with parliamentary scrutiny to invite you to a discussion process to alleviate these issues and to inform the Greek society, you "renounce" the Secretary-General. Today I hope you do not repeat the same mistake, Minister. Here, then, we find that the government wants to work on immigration once again. And he wants to work it out, because there's a transaction, there's a procession, and there's an issue in management. This is exactly where the 'colleague' is. That is why Europe, through the Anti-Fraud Office, is taking a stand. Mr Minister, unfortunately, a few months ago, Mr Tsipras needed the MATs to be able to go to Lesvos or to Mytilini. I don't know if he finally went to Lesbos or Mytilini. But activate the MATs. Mr. Kammenos did the same to do the hot spot in Kos. I know what delicateness you have as a human being and how sensitive you handle the Greek society. In the past, however, Mr Kammenos landed with a helicopter, ladies and gentlemen, to make the hot spots in Kos. EUR 1.7 billion has been allocated for three years. Greece became an endless hot spot. I, too, would expect with this money, Minister, and gentlemen of the government, that we had another picture on the Greek territory. Unfortunately, we don't. And you know why we don't have one? Because there's this transaction I said before. And there's this money transaction. The government has not provided evidence since 2015. Mr Athanasios said about seventy-five questions, I made twenty, the other colleague thirty, Mr Kiilias fifty. I don't know how many questions have left unanswered. Can you fill this void today? I believe you have the sensitivity, Minister. Do it. I would like to remind you, therefore, that the tale of the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey has collapsed in the Senate, in a similar debate, in which Mr Athanasios and Mr Vorides were also involved, which the Minister indirectly admitted that there is no European Union-Turkey agreement, which imposes the clandestine emigration of illegal immigrants and refugees to the islands. And you know why I'm telling you? He was also a friend of the Intergroup in Brussels a few days ago, and the director also repeated it. We have therefore caused your predecessor, Mr Vitsa, for this particular text of the agreement and he has not given any convincing answers. Why are the islands not being locked up and dismantled? Mostly for two reasons. Although, according to your information, there is an image that has not been altered in recent years, in terms of number, I would like to remind you that asylum infrastructures are not working. The asylum procedure is time-consuming. The government is incapable of moving the population back to the countries they want. They can't do it. Therefore, despite the fact that the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information states that in the first half of 2018 they have doubled, Mr Varvitsiotis has other elements. Tell us how many of them are after all? Did they or did they not? However, whether they are increased or not, we have two facts here, Mr Vitsa. We have facts that say that hot spots have been created on islands that local society no longer wants and, indeed, your people are protesting. Mayor Leros - I am presenting his opinion here - says that 'we can no longer with immigrants on the islands, especially with illegal immigrants'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So, on the other hand, what's going on here? It is here that, apart from the figures, which are undeniable, we also have a collapse of the tourist current. In the Minutes - and I shall end, Mr President, your tolerance for a few seconds - I say that the Greek Ports Union states that the cruise has collapsed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In Mytilini - listen - in 2014 we had fifty three arrivals, in 2017 five, in Kos in 2014 seventy nine, this year in Chios two of the thirty six arrivals. So what's going on here? It's because of something. Something's wrong. So here we have to give answers in total. You must also give answers, gentlemen of the government, to something else, to what you have committed yourself in reducing local society with reduced rates of VAT on the islands. In two months the deadline for applying the reduced rates of VAT will expire. Are you gonna prolong them? Is the problem compromised? He's decontaminated. Has something changed? No, it's getting worse. So what are you going to do with the reduced rates of VAT? The local society of Kos, Lesvos, Lesvos, Chios, the islands as a whole expects to hear the same answers. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the identifiable immigration - refugee issue has evolved on your own responsibility for four years now in a major wound to the country and to the European Union. You have implemented the open borders policy since 2015. You passed the message that the gate of Greece is open and brought the Austro-Hungarian era to our northern border. You have shown tolerance to the increased flows of identified appeals and economic migrants and have left the country in violation of laws and national plans to accept a peaceful invasion, using people in need. You gave the Turkish President a super gun, a man, to blackmail Greece and the European Union. Now whenever he wants to open the cliff and adjust the flow according to the beam, depending on what serves his policies. The war in Syria existed and was taking place before 2015. But then we had sent the message that our borders - land and sea - are kept with a great tool, the 'SPA' project. You charged all the weight in the local communities, especially the remote islands, to the emeralds of the Aegean Sea. You have blamed us for the Amygdaleza, but I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what amygdale means today. Amygdaleza - as an area - is the best suburb of the Thracedons. Also, there is the heart of the Greek Police. There, Ministers, it is the Police Academy, the School of Pedagogical Officers, the School of National Security and the Post-Education and Training School. There were houses of about two and a half thousand and there we hosted the strengthening forces of the Greek Police, which came from the regional authorities, in order to meet the needs of the 2004 Olympic Games. You called that heart of police. You created vaginas on the Aegean islands of the Pelagos. I would also like to inform you that you have created a Ministry of Migration Policy which is inappropriate and unobjective, so that it will be subject to the beginning of the Ministry of the Interior, then because of the proper functioning of it and to bribes it with its autonomy and self-determination. Why is that? In addition, the competent authorities and local authorities, until then, unfortunately, may have pulled a brake on your days. You have founded a Ministry without structures, with no values, no principles, no staffing potential, above which many times they are deceived and shadows of scandals starring NGOs. You are concerned about strengthening our land border guarding structures and you have left them to philosophy and esteem of the officials of border guard services and other police authorities. However, despite the battles on the border, the figures reflect the painful reality. According to police data, in the first half of 2018 some eight and a half thousand economic migrants were arrested at the Greek Turkish border, while at the same time - not too far, last year - a thousand six hundred 11 were arrested. And how do you react? Close your ears on the calls of the Police Trade Unions Alexandroupolis and Orestiad. They demand aid and the renewal of obsolete equipment for vehicles, supplies and technical means and the necessary heat cameras, which you do not replace, but do not build. And you answer with simple promises that you will strengthen the two police addresses. In recent years there have been many incidents, particularly in northern Evros, with either war refugees or economic immigrants. They have blocked traffic three times lately on the vertical highway of Nea Egnatia and have shown aggressive behaviour to residents, to drivers of vehicles, and are a constant risk of traffic accidents, mainly during the night, because they are moving along the highway of Nea Egnatia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. These events have caused a strong sense of insecurity in the Evros society and I would like to hear how you will face these problems and phenomena and how normality will return to the people of Evros, who are truly living a vicious scenario and possibly divert and suppress our border protection system. I must inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the Turkish authorities - which had a fixed acquis - do not cooperate within the framework of the cross-border committees. You realise that this is a very big problem and that is the achievement of your own government. However, the New Democracy has a specific political proposal on refugee and immigration. It's based on five pillars. It has been mentioned by our colleagues - and by our President, on several occasions - in capital letters. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Minister Vitsats has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u92	So today we have the New Democracy's timely question at high tones, in fact, of at least the majority of speeches so far. I would like to make it clear to you that both the immigration and the refugee question are not a place where the New Democracy can raise the finger. It is a place to apologize, apologise for having had the country fully unprepared, apologies for not having to deal with the issue even now, even with this question seriously, but with an opposition. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And I'll explain why I'm saying that. As you know throughout Europe the first issue that is being discussed today is immigration - refugee. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u93	You created it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u94	We're going to continue this conversation. He says, "You created it." Throughout Europe, for example, over seven hundred immigrants spend every day in Spain. We're creating it! You say that we are the policy of open borders, because in 2015 it spent a million people and arrived in Sweden, Germany, etc. As far as I understand it, at the same time you mean that Turkey is both a country of open borders and FYROM and Slovenia and Germany, because they have all crossed these borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u95	Then they hung up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u96	So, trying to do something - and I don't know, Mr. Prussakis, if you were Chief at that time, when the police were sleeping in the streets of Drama, Serres, Orestia - exceptionally you asked in two days from all over Greece that the police force should rise, because during that two-year period 2010-2011, a hundred thousand refugees and mostly immigrants have gone by Evros. Do you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u97	We weren't government then!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u98	Mrs. Vuldesis, we're not in the canister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u99	We have a very big issue here. I insist that you put the immigration issue on your agenda now. You did not bring it up in April when I said we would spend a difficult summer. You didn't bring it up when I said the flow was increasing. And finally, Mr Varvitsiotis, I am sorry to tell you, a little more attention to questions. You write that in the fifth paragraph: '... and returns to a time when the pace of arrivals of refugees and illegal immigrants, according to the official figures of the government itself, is recession'. You're writing it in the question. In the next paragraph, you say: 'In fact, hospitality, unlike the sharp increase in migration flows, is constantly falling'. Eventually, is there a recession or an increase? Let's know what's going on. I will go to the next, but I would also like to say about the attention you have to show.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u100	Maybe you should tell us the numbers? You've changed fifteen numbers. Say a number that's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u101	Don't worry, Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have had the floor for so long. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u103	Nobody interrupted them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u104	You ask a question to which you refer: 'In view of the above, the relevant ministers are asked...'. And then you ask the questions. The relevant ministers are, I imagine, the ones who are here in front. The Minister of Finance can tell me what this has to do with the immigration issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u105	He's giving you the money from the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u106	Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u107	Why are you showing ignorance, Mrs. Swollen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u108	You say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u109	The managing authority of money is at the Ministry of Economics and Development, which you are not calling here. The man who handles the money isn't calling him. You are pleased to see Mr. Blonde, Minister for Health, whom I have called! Why didn't you call him? Of course, we are not talking about the Ministry of Health, despite the fact that thousands of children go to schools and there are various programmes. Don't show ignorance. But let me go on a few issues. On the contrary, therefore, with the fact that you must carefully and with national and European respect to approaching this huge issue, you have started - and you are doing well - to be populated in living conditions. And you are doing so by drawing up reports, such as the two-year reference to the European Parliament and not to the European Commission, as you are mistakenly saying the 'SolidarityNow' NGO in which, if I am not mistaken - well people do - there are your members. At the same time, you raise a question of the mismanagement of European funds, if not of dispersal. Isn't that what you did? I'm not mistaken about this. I say from the outset that this check is not just welcome, as is any control, but it is also necessary. Clear answers will be given to stop the tactics of mud in the fan, in which New Democracy officials are employed and tone is given by the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Mitsotakis himself. The European Commission and the Ministries' figures on the allocation of European funds show you why they betray you as ignorant of procedures or a conscious attempt to distort or to overcome the issue. Because an issue with global dimensions, which are growing in the next few decades, is not just a good issue or bad management, it is not a matter of accounting approach. Don't leave it in front of us because, if you like, our bank accounts are open to smells of supposed economic scandals. Let me put you a little more on the subject. Sixty - six million people have today been displaced from their homes worldwide. The UN High Commissioner estimates that twenty-two million people are entitled to international protection. The World Bank says that only climate change could turn over a hundred and forty - three million people into climate immigrants from Africa, South Asia and Latin America. The immigration - refugee issue no one can say that it has an expiry date, no one can say that it is this state or that state. It is the fault of wars, it is the lack of freedom, it is poverty, it is the fact that people in a number of countries have no life and prefer to make dangerous journeys rather than die in the place they are. We, as Greece, have said that we need to tackle the migration-refugee in all its three dimensions, namely the external dimension, stopping wars and playing a peace role, but also giving development tools to the countries of mass poverty. Also, by administering the borders in such a way that the Geneva Treaty - by mistake, I imagine Mr Kikilias said the Treaty of Lausanne - is in force and also by redistributing responsibility and weight across all the countries of Europe. Do you disagree? You say the five points. Do you know that the screening of refugees and immigrants - you know that? Say it - on the islands means two or three hot spots? Is that what you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u110	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u111	So you suggest everyone leave the islands and come to the mainland? Is that the solution? Are we done? That's not it either. Are you suggesting guarding the borders? What exactly do you propose?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u112	Border security.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u113	So when a boat crosses the border, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u114	But please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u115	The Minister's asking us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u116	Questions are rhetorical, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u117	No, it's a question, because if they have a denture, they can answer it. When a boat crosses the line of sea borders, and people are at sea, what do we do? Are we saving them or are we leaving them? That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u118	Of course we're saving them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u119	That's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u120	This question you have been asking for five years now, and you will get the same answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Varvichiotis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you for the answer. Mr Varvichiotis, once again, I tell you that we humans do not treat them as intruders, we do not treat them as a threat. As a threat we face - although armored national ones - if anyone approves our national sovereignty. We treat them as people who have problems, which should apply international law to them, to call them stark. And those who need international protection will go through asylum, we will see the redistribution procedures in Europe and those who do not need international protection, we will return them. But you do not know either the agreement between the European Union and Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u123	No, it's not up to the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u124	Mrs Buddhism does not know, for example, that Afghans or Iraqis are not going back. The main issue is the Syrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u125	But it's your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u126	Yeah, it's our fault. It's all our fault anyway. Don't forget. For many years I have been a secretary of the Coalition and SYRIZA, and I am proud that on my secretariat my famous poster "For all is SYRIZA's fault", so you're not telling me anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u127	Minister, Article 3 has been invoked by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, we have not interrupted anyone in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u129	What do you want me to do now? Am I supposed to expel Mr. Athanasios?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u130	I'm going to the specifics, Mr. Athanasios, so you can learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u131	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u132	Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs. Vuldesis, you've gotten over the graphics in here. If you can't sit quiet, get out. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u133	Do me a favor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u134	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u135	Do me a favor and watch your mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u136	Can I watch my mouth?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u137	Your language is unacceptable. We know who's handwriting or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u138	Let's go to the specifics, hear some finances. On the basis of the latest updated information note of the Internal Affairs Directorate in October 2018 - which I will present to you - for Greece and not to the Greek Government, for the 2014-2020 programming period and not for the 2015-2018 period by the European Union Department of Immigration, Home Affairs and Citizenship, DG HOME, to ministries and public services, international organisations and NGOs, from regular and extraordinary funding available EUR 561 million as a tactical and EUR 480 million as extraordinary funding. A total of EUR 1,041 million for this six-year period. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned information note, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of these EUR 561 million of regular financing up to now, 164 million has been disbursed, subject to strict approval checks and procedures by the competent services of the European Commission. Anyway, what's going on? For opacity you speak, for invoices, for invoices that I myself submitted on 24-10-2016, three volumes of invoices. It seems that the only diligent in this matter is Mrs Vultesis, who has sat and read at least one of them. We'll talk about it, because this is where we sit, and we're talking about getting catering from the catering companies. Next time, we'll give catering to the clothing companies to be happy. Of the EUR 480 million emergency financing to public services, EUR 233 million has been approved and disbursed gradually as follows: Ministry of Defence 127,73m euros, Ministry of Health 27,45m euros, Ministry of Interior - when it was the Ministry of Migration Policy -26,95m euros, Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport 12,76m euros. And to talk about international competitions, the number that I mentioned, namely "12,76" is the international public competition to buy the houses that have gone all over Greece. Ministry of Migration Policy, the next 10.42m euros. Before the signing of the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, the following amounts were allocated: Reception and Identification Service 8.35m euros, Greek Police 5.58m euros, General Coordination Secretariat 6m euros - when it was the Management Authority at the Directorate-General for Coordination -, Greek Port House 6,67m euros, Asylum Service 1,18m euros. EUR 248 million has also been allocated to international organisations, namely EUR 150 million to the UN High Commissioner for Migration, EUR 72 million to the International Organisation for Migration and EUR 26 million to EASO. I don't remember who said that, but I'd like to clarify something. For the twenty square meters in Mytilini, the Greek state did not give, but it gave the EASO. Since we said you shouldn't give this money to Moria - all right, it's not 20 square meters, but that doesn't matter, it's too small a place - we've had the problems with the owner,'stuff the fence' or'stuff the fence'. You know these things. At least Mr. Athanasios knows about it. The entire emergency funding is also subject to control, but with more flexible approval procedures. As for meeting urgent needs in the management of the refugee problem, the situation - and let us not forget that - touched the humanitarian crisis in the past few years. For this reason, the European Commission and the competent Internal Affairs Directorate have proceeded with the adoption of more rapid disbursement procedures and a more flexible approval framework. I would remind you that the international food competitions have been held and for two years now they have still been at the Court of Auditors. What would I or any Minister, whether he was Mr. Kammenos or Mr. King, or before Mr. Kouvelis, 'Wait for the Court of Auditors to approve'? Tell me - because I'm guessing they'll talk about what the direct assignment is. All the time I was at the Department of Defense, there were rough competitions everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u139	No, no. They weren't rough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u140	With publication, Mr. Athanasios. Everywhere I suggested that there should be gatherings and consortia of locals so that they can get the contests. We are basically talking about the islands, because in the rest of Greece we have the cash system, with which they take money themselves, buy and make their food and strengthen the local economy. As far as the Ministry of Migration and its services in particular are concerned, I am presenting you in detail - to finish this - with all the funds financed from European funds for actions that have been taken since 2015 and from now on. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's what we've been able to do. These are again seven hundred other pages, which you should undertake to print, because they are in the form of USB. I'm telling you myself. There are new technologies. Any party who wants to ask them with an e-mail can have them. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis submits for the Minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, from the Humanitarian Aid Directorate, DG ECHO - to get together, DG HOME is under Mr Avramopoulos, while DG ECHO is under Mr Stylianides - has been allocated EUR 605.35 million only...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u141	A total of EUR 1,600,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u142	You can't tell anything. We're making a budget. This budget is EUR 1,600,000. If you looked at this note that came out in 2018, you would understand that these are not given as money, but take action and finance actions. So these actions have now been approved EUR 1,041,000,000 and we still have two and a half years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u143	At least that's where we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u144	But if you'd watch me, you'd always agree. You don't want to agree. That's the problem. This whole amount of 605 million has been allocated exclusively to international organisations and NGOs, all of which are seventeen, for the provision of services under the policy of receiving asylum seekers in our country. And it is expected to reach 650m euros by the end of 2018. And now another mistake. This address doesn't give states. This address by its regulation only gives international organisations and non-governmental organisations. For the first time, the European Union, even the High Commissioner, has dealt with the issue of a large wave of immigration and refugee in structured countries such as Turkey, such as Malta, such as Cyprus, such as Greece, such as Italy. All the time before they spoke of sub-Saharan African or African countries and the money of this address went to the High Commissioner, the IMO, etc. In particular, the funding of these bodies is now as follows: High Commissioner: EUR 356,67 million. International Organisation for Migration: EUR 47.7 million. Daniel Refugee Council: EUR 44.5 million. International Rescue Committee: EUR 28.74 million. IFRC: EUR 17.6 million. Norwegian Refugee Council: EUR 17.3 million. Arbeiter - Samariter - Bund: EUR 15.26 million. UNICEF: EUR 14.8 million. Doctors of the World: EUR 14.3 million. OXFAM, who has now left Greece: EUR 13.5 million. Save the children: EUR 9.65 million. Mercy Corps: EUR 6,57 million. Terre des Hommes, Spanish: 5.83m euros. Care Germany: EUR 3.73 million. Spanish Red Cross: 2 million euros Metadrasi: EUR 1 million Smile of the Child: 0.8 million euros. Specific things. It is worth noting what I told you here. These, now, become direct contracts between the European Commission and these agencies and are directly controlled by the European Commission. What you do not understand for so long is that by allegedly blaming the Greek Government, you are actually blaming the European Commission. That's what you've been doing for so long. And I'm trying in a sense toward Europe - I'm sorry for the expression, I'm not someone else - to'save you', but you don't want to. If you don't want, fine, what can I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u145	Minister, the tax control and the budget have... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u146	All right, I start again and say: That is money from the European Union as a whole. The Greek is controlled by the Court of Auditors, the Greek Management Authority and the EL. Europeans are controlled by the European Commission, by the respective Court of Auditors, the European Union, as we call it, and the Anti-Fraud Directorate, OLAF. I'll tell you more immediately, then. So here we are talking about what has been done so far. We've suffered five to six checks. Panagiotis will also speak the King later. However, since 2017, the check for the Ministry of Defence has been closed by Europeans with excellent results. And for the Ministry of Migration Policy, which takes little money and asks a total of 38 million for all these years, it has been closed without any observation. So that corresponds to the notorious 1,667.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u147	No, he's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u148	What do you want me to say? No, excuse me! I have full confidence that these international organisations, such as the IMO, the High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, who are under control and internally, have been doing their job well for so many years. Are you saying they're not doing their job well? Something's going on here. You can't say one another! I'm done with this. Now let's go to OLAF's investigation, let's take me off later. This is Mrs. Berto.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u149	There are three other ministers, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u150	Leave for your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u151	Mr. President, in dentistry, I will have the former director... Mrs Bertos, on September 26, 2018, informs us: "We have so far found no element of the mismanagement of funds in any way. All the long-term funds are subject to annual accounts clearance, which means that we are monitoring annually that everything has been properly spent. We found no evidence of the mismanagement of funds, which allows us to continue financing this project." On 5 October, by letter to the Commissioner, I would ask you to tell me what the information is about so that OLAF can be activated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u152	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much. This, of course, has not been answered yet. That is the letter, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. Wait a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude. And these are the two answers, the answer he sent the Ministry to the river. The river at least knows who he's asking. [[At this point, the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I tell you that OLAF on 3-11-2017- because it exists in your question - is doing together with the Greek Office of the General Secretariat of the Anti-Corruption Research for NGO, which was financed exclusively from EU funds with the sum of EUR 7.150,000. He's doing this investigation. It is now doing the research, after the publications that the committee gave it, which says 'As far as I'm concerned, I have found nothing'. It's two different, so we're between us all right. But these documents I cannot give you. Now what have we done? To close and I'll see you in my dentistry. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You don't want to? Are you in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u154	Put it in perfection, Minister. We're making bad use of time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u155	Yeah, we're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u156	You're learning. You don't know? At the moment we have created a hospitality system, where twenty-five thousand people are staying in apartments. We have created twenty-eight temporary hospitality structures - I also have some photos of the structures there, from the twenty-eight, eighteen - and there are six reception and identification centres. I've been telling you for three months: "Don't focus on Moria. In Moria, there's a program. In Moria, it will slowly begin to resolve this matter.' My problem, your problem, the problem of all of us, is Samos, because it's targeted the island. Because only September to October 25th in Samos have two thousand seventeen influxes, and a thousand percent left.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u157	Mytilini?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u158	In Mytilini, during this period, Mr Athanasios, two thousand eight hundred nine have entered and three thousand six hundred sixty-two have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u159	Three thousand three hundred eighty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u160	We're not going to ruin the account.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u161	I'm telling you by October 25th.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u162	Minister, put a perfect one now, get the next one here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u163	To close it, because I have more...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u164	But, in September, you said everyone would leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u165	We have the same debate, Mr Athanasios, which we had with Idomen: 'Why did it not evacuate on 10 of the month and evacuate in one month?', 'Why did Piraeus not evacuate on 15 April - I said this - and was evacuated on 30 April?', 'Why in Moria does it not become biological?', when the bureaucratic procedures 'Why is it slowing down the biological?' and when we do the biological - which will be done - will we start after the debate 'Is biological good? Does it drip the organic?" Okay, is this conversation serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u166	Five years, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u167	Is this a serious conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u168	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u169	I would therefore like to present something to you from the Asylum Service concerning the management of European funds. You'll find the rest in the flash drive. [[At this point, Minister Dimitrios Vitsakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to tell you this: the situation is difficult, especially in the islands. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday I was in Turkey, where I had a meeting with the Turkish Interior Minister. The meeting was concerned only with migration, exchanges of thought on what more we can do so that 24% of the increase would be reduced. They also have four and a half million refugees and immigrants in Turkey, i.e. three and a half million Syrians and a million Syrians. So he was telling me the discomfort they make, so they wouldn't let the coasts pass. And at the end of the month - Fotis Kouvelis, who is not here at the moment - knows that we have a meeting in Athens with the Chief of Coast Guard - not us, but the respective Chief of the Port - to deepen our cooperation. In Turkey and Greece, two meetings were held in May that interrupted Evros. Six thousand were in Evros. How did you get eight thousand? The following week from Evros were twelve thousand seven hundred. Listen: what is not going to happen is to stop the effort and the struggle. From the 1st of March 2018 until now we have added to the hosting spaces in the inland ten thousand thousand new sixty new places. I hope that, in September, they will be added to these ten thousand sixty-sixty-seven thousand five hundred eighty-four. And you're telling me I'm talking about Europe. What's gonna happen? Are they coming to the islands? Let me agree, because I have said so, even faster asylum procedures, faster inland transport. Is that gonna solve the problem? We'll do it, we'll do it! Will the problem solve us? We must reallocate and agree on this, you must work in your European party, everyone must work. I hear from an international organization yesterday saying "what you need to do is take them from the islands and quickly transfer them to the mainland". And I say: 'He thought about it alone or helped him?'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u170	Why would there be four stages of asylum?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Athanasios, you prevent the Minister from coming down from the Step. Don't intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u173	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, follow a procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u175	Unspeakable in criticism!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u176	Do you want the Minister to stay longer in Stepa?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u177	Thirty-five minutes the Minister spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u178	But that's what I'm saying. Mr. Athanasios has an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Varvichiotis, were you satisfied with the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u180	The questions must be answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u181	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, the procedure is a process!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u183	Did they satisfy you with the evidence I gave you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u184	Fortunately after three years, you brought evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and four school attendants from the 1st Priveza Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. King, Deputy Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I have come with good will tonight because it is my first speech - my position as Minister. But I won't keep it, and you'll understand why. I would like to tell the children, who are from the school of Preveza - because I am a teacher - that is to say: to watch, filter and treat the House with respect, because it is the area of democracy and as young children to understand what it means in our country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been entrusted with assisting with concrete actions in managing the refugee crisis. It is food, accommodation, transport and healthcare. So he took over the Ministry to cover these corresponding costs. It has signed a total EU funding through the emergency aid mechanism of around EUR 99.761 000. The "approximate" is accurate with the latest numbers. Of this amount, 88.6 million euros have been absorbed so far. That's the absorption. All the above agreements have completed the entire process of control and the approval of expenditure by the European Union. It concerns most of the period of great and intense flow and crisis that existed in the refugee region. All the sums are set up, ladies and gentlemen, in the 'DENMARK'. Who were implementing all the contracts and everything that they were and are in that direction? It is the Directorate-General for Finance, which is doing an excellent job - and is controlled by the Ministry - and the bodies of the General Staff - the respective - of the Armed Forces, who are also responsible for the competitive procedures: commissions, functions. All of these are integrated within the institutional framework which already exists, namely n.4270/2014, n.d.80/2016, n.4368/2016, n.4375/2016 and n.4412/2016. I quote: do not make much use of Mr Eliopoulos. Don't use him, and I'll tell you why. The whole time you asked the questions was the head of ASNA. Let me explain to you what S.H.I.E.L.D. means: it's the Supreme Military Command of the Islands. So it's from where they were all going and the local brigades and units were responsible for making the competitions with the respective services. So he knows very well that everything has become the specific general at that time. From that point on, there are all the national national audit mechanisms provided for by national law, in particular: Preventive control, which, where appropriate, is carried out by the Court of Auditors itself. It is the auditing and clearance of expenditure by the responsible auditors, the re-checking of expenditure cleared by the Directorates-Generals-General, the auditing by the Court of Auditors and the audit by an external certified company chosen on the basis of a tender. Through all these procedures, we ensure that the principles of sound financial management are lawful, regular and eligible as well as that we respect the principles of sound financial management. Moreover, the European Commission itself, the responsible source of funding, has clearly stated that it has found no evidence of non-transparent management of funds in any way. I would remind you of the answer by the responsible representative on immigration, by Natasa Bertos, when he was asked about September 26th: 'We have so far found nothing or any element of mismanagement of funds in any way. All the long-term funds are subject to annual accounts clearances, which means that we are auditing annually that everything has been properly spent." And she continued in her answer: "We are not competent to investigate any charges of illegal profits from catering companies, which is why we refer to the issue in the European Anti-Fraud Office. There were some categories which did not come from the committee.' A nice and interesting question, honourable Members of the New Democracy, is this: What exactly came from the specific accusations on which OLAF was committed - and he has done well - to complete the process? They are the categories on which - by devilish coincidence - the friend who is addressing the Chief of the Police Opposition Mediation mechanism, throwing into the public debate the numbers of millions of billions of euros and culminating in such a serious issue as the refugee - immigration. I'm not just staying here. In the last three and a half years we have become accustomed to listening to furious voices and opinions, such as the "vast Gerun", "wassa Sibelle" or "I believe more to Erdogan than Tsipras" and "Greek is causing to the Aegean and not Turkey", opinions and voices from some who are sitting here today on the headquarters of Officerial Opposition, opinions and voices that are allegedly being cut for the international image and prestige of our country. Let us not stay on the verge of what good faith abode some accusations have been made. There are facts. During the whole of the checks carried out, therefore, no break-up has been detected. And it must be very careful that those who put 'in the air' categories and mismanagement of European funds, both to the Government and to the staff of the Armed Forces, who, with a great effort at this time - and I am honoured to be there - have offered in this direction the social work that is being done, whether by making schools in difficult areas, Mr Prussakis, such as Thrace, or by creating streets where the state has not done anything. For the first time in peace we have been called upon to meet the needs of feeding, housing and hospitality of so many people, and as far as possible we have done so well. Since 2015 - because this is the debate, you have not escaped and I will say what I mean - to date more than 1.2 million refugees and immigrants have passed from Greece. Today more than twenty-five thousand people are hosted in apartments, six reception and identification centres are in operation and eight hosting structures. Training is provided. And I would like Mr Athanasios to tell me here, but he is not here: the IACC in Lesvos will continue to say 'lash immigrants' to the people who have suffered and arrive there? Because all the conversation that took place on your part, what was it? How you will laugh and how you will say or how you will leave and the lovers will leave your life for everything you have done over the past period. So, gather all those who say about illegal immigrants. Education and health care are therefore provided to all refugees and immigrants. They're the kids at school together. And they're beautiful pictures of coexistence with all together, since they're staying here and, as you like, they have to have good conditions. There is a constant effort to further improve the living conditions of all these people, always with respect for international and European law. There are signs where, by time, increased problems and malfunctions are recorded. It is difficult - and I fully agree - because I have visited Moria several times. There is also bureaucracy, we have to apologise for this bureaucracy many times. I would like to say, however, that there are now annual invitations to tender for feedingstuffs and the rest. Because this debate - and I would point it out once again - is for what had happened in the period until 2016, it was also the answers that you had taken, because it was an extraordinary period, in fact, with so many flows and in a crisis of economics, when we fought against the 'vass Gerun' that you said we could resolve the problem of the many flows that were coming to Greece. Mr Varvitsiotis, because you said before, 'We will stop immigrants at the sea borders'. We've got a mile of sea borders. What do you mean exactly? "In refugees and economic immigrants we will separate them" and assume that an accident will happen again. So I am not going to accept that we are to be swamped by the fingers, by those who are working for tiny political reasons on an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, by those who do not hesitate to treat the difficult conditions of people and refugees in the most populist and irresponsible way, by fondling the right-wing, nationalistic and xenophobic reflexes. Because we all know very well that their late concern for refugees' living conditions is, if anything, hypocritical. We are also aware that, for the very difficult conditions on the islands of the eastern Aegean, European policies that keep borders closed are primarily responsible, they are entangled in people who are tortured in small and even enclosed by sea land. We have supported and supported a difficult agreement in its implementation, but in the absence of a better alternative. From the very beginning we have faced the issue of the refugee crisis, migration as a European collective affair, which also requires a European collective solution. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will take some time from my dentistry. As a country and as a government we have faced and confronted the refugee on the basis of the principles of international law, the humanitarian principles of European culture, on the basis of the timeless principles of humanity and solidarity that distinguish the Greek people, who, despite the difficulties they face, warmly welcomed the refugees and immigrants who enter the country, lifting the burden on the shoulders throughout Europe. We did not give up, ladies and gentlemen, in the nationalist, xenophobic voices supporting re-propulsions at sea or a superficial asylum procedure that would reject all of the demands. We have strongly criticised the European countries, who refuse to take up this burden of responsibility, the countries that want to enjoy all the rights deriving from their participation in the European Union, but are reluctant to fulfil their respective obligations. Greece belongs politically and economically to the European Union and codecisions in the procedures for all the major issues. And at this level, in the great picture, as far as the management of the refugee crisis is concerned, the European family appears to be divided. On the one hand, there are the forces, such as our government, which propose humanitarian and, on the other, the principles of the legal management of refugee in Europe, and on the other hand, those views and leaderships, which are the actors of a strong division, express an extremist nationalist, anti-immigrationist and often racist speech. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u187	By who? You're insulting us now. Are you telling the islanders that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u188	You have a bad habit, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u189	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u190	Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, but also all the other MPs and MPs of the Officerial Opposition on which side would they include themselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u191	For Christ's sake! What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u192	Don't be in a hurry. You'll hear. You'll understand what I mean. I feel that the New Democracy today is taking the side of the extreme right-wing forces in Europe. Let me ask. The Civic Opposition is drawn up with the Prime Minister of Hungary, Mr. Orban? Will he be expelled from the People's Party, the man who sent thanks to the Golden Dawn to support their refugee positions? You haven't said a word. Is it also the Austrian Chancellor, Mr. Kurts? Do you ideologically identify these issues of migration of antisocial and economic neoliberalism? Mr Athanasios and fellow Members, you will allow me to continue to move to the opposite of this logic, to be among those who believe that, in order to address the problem, we must tackle its causes first, to have a substantial development perspective for the countries of North Africa and Asia. By then, however, we have to deal with a specific situation for which we are not responsible, but we have to manage it. The refugee crisis should undoubtedly be a national case. But you don't want it, you've got it included in a micro-political logic. I would therefore ask that this matter of cheap micro-political propaganda be stopped. Get all the evidence. Don't make politics through press releases, it doesn't do good. Mostly I would tell you something else, because I lived in Lesvos and spent very nice years in the army as a fantasy but also as a student, don't act reflexively, it doesn't deserve this island, and don't sow such opinions. You talked about the MATs the day Alexis Tsipras was. Yes, sir. I went after a month and said: Why did the MATs come out? Because you have created, Mr Athanasios, and everyone there, because you have not done anything else - to talk to all the trade unions about VAT on the islands. Do you know what I asked? You lost one more time. "Mrs. Kalogerou, do you want the VAT or the transport equivalent? Let me give you the VAT you requested and not the transport." Well, be careful why you don't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understand that we are discussing a huge social and political problem, which concerns the whole of the world and, in particular, Europe, which is the field of strong social and political conflicts and divisive divisions, which concern all the political forces, all the political areas, all the European societies. We manage our country and Europe as a whole - which is, above all, the host countries - the biggest move of peoples after World War II. We are dealing with a huge problem which, in my opinion, is offensive to the intelligence of people, to be degraded to a micro-party confrontation of this kind and to say, in some cases, that this problem was created by SYRIZA and that, in fact, it was deliberately created so that it could take money from the European Union and do business. That is what Mrs Buddhism told us. These are for those who in fact have no extreme right, racist, intolerance and xenophobic reflexes in this country, they are a direct attack on their intelligence! We know very well, in what political vocabulary is words filled with hatred, like a illegal immigrant. You avoided her today. It's called it a slick voice, your former Prime Minister. Words like invaders, city deportation, national threats, this rhetoric hate you and all your executives, self-government and politicians. And now you're going to shed us crocodile tears and tell us that you've had pain in the drama of refugees and immigrants? I think it's a little less hypocrisy. So, back from the rhetoric about 'the shame picture that exposes the country', in my view it hides - or rather cannot hide - your deep contempt for these people, your intolerance and your discomfort for the presence of these devastated people from poverty, from war and from climate change as Dimitris Vitsas quite rightly said. It is therefore a point - the distinction between a policy of inclusion, respect for the rights and rules of international law, on the one hand, a policy that the Left serves in all its versions, and, on the other hand, a policy of exclusion, racism, xenophobia and intolerance, which serves many versions of the right and, above all, of the right across Europe. It is obvious which side you have chosen to move. So, is everything well burned? Isn't that a problem? Is the critique made? Obviously not. There's real difficulty here. There are tens of thousands of people, trapped, who have suffered an aberration in their plan to move to countries, especially Northern and Central Europe, who obviously do not have the economic problems of our country, in circumstances which, in fact, are not good, particularly in certain camps and in certain reception centres - identification not throughout the country. There are very specific areas where there are problems and which I think the relevant ministry is doing everything it can to resolve gradually. That's the main problem. The main problem is living conditions, housing conditions, feeding, individual hygiene and managing everyday problems that these people have. There are, indeed, difficulties there and there are problems, which need to be speeded up. And apparently it's a permanent bet. And here comes the most famous theme of the sanitary bomb. For three and a half years, we have heard that the sanitary bomb is going to explode in the country. There's gonna be earthquakes, famines, and suffocations. We will have an epidemic of plague, cholera, infectious diseases, which will reap the refugee populations and, above all, the local populations. This sanitary bomb has never been activated. And it has not been activated because, ladies and gentlemen, there have been measures to prevent and prevent this risk. There's been an arrangement with L.4368. all refugees, asylum seekers and the right to international protection have AMCAs in this country and have free and guaranteed access to the public health system like all citizens. And they take their medications and they're hospitalized and healed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Evidently in conditions of co-existence of thousands of people there are always risks of creating favourable conditions of infections, etc. And there were cases of infections and hepatitis A and leakage syndromes and other respiratory infections and tuberculosis. But because there was a serious epidemiological surveillance plan organised with the assistance of exceptional scientists and epidemiological experts in the country, there were interventions, they limited these cases, and they did not allow the general population to be dispersed, nor of course the refugee population.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u195	And before there were, Minister, and there was free care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u196	Leave us now. So I'll tell you. Since 2015, we have received a allocation of EUR 3.5 million from a special European Union financial fund, ISF. With this we hire thirty-nine people, doctors, nurses, midwifes, rescuers and crews of the EKAV, social workers, cultural ombudsmen for the islands of the eastern Aegean. We are also strengthening care under very difficult conditions in camps and also the neighbouring public structures, hospitals and health centres, which were helping to take care of these people. Absorption was at 98%. All this was done with absolute transparency and with excellent reports from the Directorate-General-General of the Commission. It follows a second financial programme from another fund, AMIF, European Structural Fund. We are funding the 'PHILOS' programme. We hire six hundred and fifty-seven people all over the country, both in the Aegean and in the mainland, and health workers of all categories. Half of them are in camps. It is an adequate core of health care with the significant shortage in some instances of doctors and interpreters, and at the same time we are strengthening public structures, as I have said before. The absorption ended on August 18 was 96.2%. It's perfectly transparent. It's controlled by sworn accountants and we're waiting for their findings. It has excellent evaluations from the Commission for the very good practices that have been carried out, for an integrated, not just urgent, but holistic, psychosocial care of refugees and migrants. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] A little more time, Mr. President. With this programme we organised, in addition to the health presence, eight mobile units throughout the country, which carried out epidemiological surveillance and intervened when there were cases and limited them and managed in the best way the people in need. There have also been cases of multi-resisting tuberculosis, which has been dealt with on an island most successful, and there has not been the slightest dispersion among people living together in the same area, nor of course with the staff of the High Authority, the First Response Service or other involved bodies, and of course neither in local communities. There's been vaccination. Thirty-five thousand sixty-four vaccinations took place in 2017 mainly in the child population. Eleven thousand forty-three until July 2018. We have excellent rates of vaccination for the child's refugee population and there are reports of the World Health Organisation, congratulating a country that in a time of crisis and austerity shows such samples of writing, sensitivity, humanity, solidarity and good health standards as regards care. We are now going to a new programme - we are now on the move with extensions - from the national PPP of EUR 50 million, which will enable us in-depth, hire more than twice as many staff and have the security that we can cover fully and reliably all needs, of course by making use of reliable non-governmental organisations for specific sectors, but at this time and the armed forces, which have allocated 12 officials to doctors and have strengthened critical PST in the islands and in Evros. There was therefore a plan based on international quality standards and the guidelines and guidelines of the WHO and IOM, the International Organisation for Migration. There have been two successful projects and we are going for the third. And, above all, there was a culture of solidarity from both the human resources of the health system and local communities, and from the health institutions, and from volunteers of all categories of health professionals. So I think that very important steps have really been taken on the part of health care. We call it and substantiate that we have not allowed this major social problem for our country and for Europe to become a public health problem. So leave the cries for a sanitary bomb. Risk is as low as there are bad living conditions for thousands of people and as long as there is overpopulation in camps. But there is also knowledge and experience and scientific competence in the human resources involved. I think that, really, we can especially in this new period provide more complete care by meeting new needs. We have hundreds of landlords, women born every day. We have the care of newborn children, infants. We take care of mentally ill, disabled, chronic serious illnesses, people who need dialysis, people who have malignancies. And all these are being treated today with problems, of course, with suffering, like the rest of our country's citizens, but equally and with dignity from the public health system. That is why I think that, in the next period and with the greatest financial capacity available, with transparency and full documentation, we can guarantee both the refugees and the people who are caring for them and, above all, the local communities in the areas that host them that there is in fact no risk of spreading infectious diseases and the activation of a health bomb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Fotis Kouvelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, is the question of the government to this House? It's not the House to the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, the Minister for Health was not even questionable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u200	All right, leave the minister, for the wrong call...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u201	So how have you read it? Have you read him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u202	The Rules of Procedure say about a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u203	Excuse me, but don't you want the Minister's answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u204	We didn't ask anything about health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u205	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u206	Excuse me, but is this the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u207	Show the corresponding tolerance to Members' questions when we come to our speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u208	Yeah, you're not gonna cut our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u209	You'll leave us, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u210	Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I am an old parliamentarian to know, like the minister present...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u212	I'm not questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u213	...to know that in question procedures, no governmental work is performed but they come and answer these questions. The Minister of Health welcome, but he wasn't even a questioner. If here you are trying the way you manage the case and the conversation to give an advantage...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u214	Who do you say that to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u215	....................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u216	Listen, Mr. Varvichiotis. Don't get ahead of yourself. I do not want to say anything else, but I say this: all the time has been here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u217	Not him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u218	But here, they were all more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u219	If I have the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u220	Listen, gentlemen. As the old parliamentarian, Mr Varvitsiotis, referred to the Rules of Procedure. This is where everyone's time is marked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u221	In total, the ministers have thirty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u222	In fact, I put five in the Rules of Procedure and spoke for seven minutes. The ministers have, according to the Rules of Procedure, the following minutes: They have twenty minutes of protology, ten minutes of denology and five minutes of tritology. Are you questioning this, Mr Varvitsiotis, as an old parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u223	For all the ministers. I mean, there's thirty-five minutes for all the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u224	Wait a minute. You know, Mr Varvitsiotis, because you're too old, you might have forgotten some. Time is for everyone. I don't want to read them right now. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u225	What did he forget, Mr. President? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u226	Forgot what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u227	The process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u228	I pointed out specific things to you and told you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u229	Here's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u230	He made reference to the Rules of Procedure. I'm reading it to you. So, Mr. Chiara...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u231	I told you that during the questioning process, we must respect - and that is why there are - times. I have pointed out to you the tolerance you have shown to both the ministers who have reached the Step and, of course, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Varvichiotis, I told you what time they deserve...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u233	We'll be here and we'll answer. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Loverdos, don't you let Mr. Kouvelis talk, and we're going through the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u236	I apologise to Mr. Kouvelis. I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Kouvelis is in Step. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u238	I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u239	What's going on here is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u240	No, leave the counterproductives, Mr President. I want the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u242	I apologise to Mr. Kouvelis. Mr President, it is not the opposition government that asks questions about the government, and that is why we have structured a procedure in the Rules of Procedure. There was one matter today. Many ministers came to answer the same question. We didn't say anything. You shared a document with us before we started the process with three ministers. There's been four. You set time. He's doubled. Time has been set in writing and it has become double! We didn't say anything again. But you must understand, too, that you are conducting a debate where the opposition controls the government. This is the opposite, and please very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Loverdo, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u244	We must understand, too, when we will finally take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u245	That's why I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u246	I would like to ask you if the parties expressed with a Member will make the same misuse of time? You'll have the same misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u247	But, Mr. Loverdo, I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u248	I'll keep my time. But will you have the right to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u249	I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u250	Will you have the right to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u251	But I'm talking to you. Would you listen to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u252	I told you that you should follow the Rules of Procedure a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u253	Let me tell you. Now we're wasting time. But it doesn't matter if you're trying. I've read to you what each is entitled to. The Minister, Mr. Vitsas, is entitled to twenty minutes plus ten plus five, equal to thirty-five minutes. There is a marked amount of time for all those who spoke. From that point of view - and this applies to everyone - the Bureau cannot force itself to ensure that the time is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u254	Tall letters, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u255	In addition, Mr Athanasios has established an informal debate here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u257	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u258	It is a question of the New Democracy, which is addressed to seven ministries. If all seven Ministers had come, then there would have been no such protests. After all, your question, ladies and gentlemen, is addressed to seven ministries. The time will be respected and the process will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u259	But keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u260	Thirty-five minutes for protology is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u261	With the risk of moping up the old parliamentary Mr Varvitsiotis, I would like to say that I am not in the mood to complain about this House and Mr Varvitsiotis, but shall I now read the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House? You know it, Mr. Varvichiotis. That is why I say to you that it is counterproductive and unfair to the Bureau. But that's 'let's get the river'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u262	The river gets nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u263	The river says, "Mr. Mavrosh." So, should we move on to get the floor for the parliamentary representatives too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u264	Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u265	Let me move on, that's what I'm saying, with your permission. Well, come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, I am following the intercystinda on the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the fact that a Minister, who was not among the expressly questioned, spoke to him. But I have one question. I, as Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, have nothing to do with the content of the question, why are you asking me? Did you not know - will I not say a name - those who have written this timely question that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has no part in either the management and absorption of Union financial resources coming from the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund or from the Internal Security Fund related to the management of the migration problem, nor does the Ministry of Maritime finance with Union funds NGO within its competence? My question therefore, because there is no reference to your timely question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u267	You don't know well. Here in the document says other things. 14% you get.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u268	I, Mrs. Vulture, claim never to interrupt you. Don't interrupt me. I'll never interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u269	Now you're talking, and I'm not listening. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u270	Look, Mrs. Vulture, I'm not going to follow your ethics about who's lying. What you said corresponds to you, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u271	You're lying. We'll see later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u272	So why are you asking me? Let me tell you why you're asking me why you're asking the Minister of Shipping. Because you want to generalise a situation and invest as you believe in a sensitive, complex, complex problem, which not only concerns Greece, but concerns the whole of Europe and the global community. And finally, say very clearly: do you want the policy of the Government on immigrants and refugees, or do you choose the policy on immigration and refugee followed by other countries, the vertical eastern axis of Europe, the Visegrad countries and not just? Say too clearly. Why are you asking the Ministry of Shipping? Do you want the government to order by the relevant Minister "Drop those who come in our territorial waters"? Or do you want to tell them what they do with excellent consistency and high mind and commitment to their humanitarian duty to save people, not let them drown? And I did not see you have any cause for failures, with omissions, with uncertainties either of the Port and of the Greek Coast Guard, which guards borders and which, of course, does not leave to die, those who may not leave, in the waters of the Aegean. However, the Ministry is asked. Do you not understand, ladies and gentlemen - and you will find it in front of you at any time, will you find it in front of you, please listen to me - that there is no other immigration and refugee policy than our country is following? Whether it is this government or someone else, this policy should be exercised, because the other policy means walls, it means wires, it means by omission of participation and partnership in the deaths of many people, who, in their despair, do not come to Greece for holidays or come to have vacances in the other European countries, but come to claim the right to life of their own, their families, their children. What else can the government do than what it does? Mr Vitsats told you a little earlier, the Minister responsible, that we are making sure that refugees come to the mainland. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that when the number of migrants from the islands to the mainland rises, you will still be here to invest that there are many in the hinterland and that they are harming the hinterland and disturbing the life of the hinterland. Six and a half months I handled this issue by the Deputy Minister of Defence's position. Who told you it was no problem? To speak, Mr Athanasios, for example, on the Lesbos issue, on the sewer. And the reason for it to be effective must be honest too. You do not remember that the execution of this work by the Local Government was excommunicated, because - listen, listen! - if it becomes the sewer, does it mean permanent establishment of refugees in the area? And they felt at some point that when refugees leave Lesvos, this important sewage project, carried out by MMKA, the old MOMA, will remain for the benefit of the island.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u273	It's a matter of legislation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u274	Mr Athanasios, if you want to encroach on whether there is or is not a law, you understand any different from what I claim to convince you to understand and I am sure you understand that. And you understand that, because I was gladly informed that you were deeply devastated when the funeral of this hero, the Lord Papadopoulos, took place, the port that saved lives. I mean, we cannot be bilingual. We cannot, on the other hand, shed tears when people leave life and when, on the other hand, we say or let it be understood - and this is the most dangerous - that it does not do its work well in the Port and Coast Guard. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure and honour as Minister for Maritime Affairs - now, I am not a long time, it has not been completed two months - to collect for the Port and the Greek Coast Guard congratulations from Europe and the whole world and further. I told you that I was about six and a half months old at the Ministry and, indeed, during my term of office - even a few days before I left the Ministry of Shipping - the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, appeared and was very welcome by the relevant departments and the Minister and Deputy Minister. Do you know why he asked to do a check? And, of course, I was happy to say. Because there were - it says - two anonymous complaints and the management issues of the relevant funds had to be checked. Three days left and you know what they asked for before they left and left? Seeing the Deputy Minister and congratulating him on the integrity of management, coming to my office and saying they didn't find a deficit. Why are you underestimating this? With all the difficulties that exist, with all the issues that arise, is it easy to manage these tens of thousands of people, human souls? Is management easy? And of course, there will also be quarrels and clashes between them. And once these whispers may also have the element of violent behavior. Can this lead the Opposition to saying that it is bad for the government's policy to deal with the refugee? Is this the case in Greece? Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat - and I conclude, Mr President - that there are two ways of dealing with the refugee problem: Or the one that Greece follows with this government, serving humanitarian values, human ideals, responding to the human obligation, or the other way of the walls, of abandoning the suffering people who come through the Aegean Sea in Greece and drown, or then you must honestly say who is the third, the best way between these two. There is no other way, the best, of course, of certain opinions, of certain ideologies. Don't blame me for ideoscopy. I am talking about the ideology of humanity, human values, respect for human life. And that is what the government does, even if it is controlled in this impeccable opposition way by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u275	We thank the Minister very much for his respect for the time. And to tell you that the ministers, according to the Rules of Procedure, were entitled 20 minutes. We did it ten minutes. I have not said so, so do not say any more, 'Let us talk about the rest of the ten'. We must therefore be a little more careful when we talk to the Bureau. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, I will also try to respect time, to the extent possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to have the phone with me. I don't get used to it. It's for specific reason here. I shall read out a document that was sent to me during the debate. Mr President, Minister, I was impressed by reading the question - and I imagine you have the same thing - that we do not discuss the government's immigration policy as a whole. We are discussing a specific issue, which concerns the management of specific funds. You have chosen - and I do not think that was by chance, because you are experienced all - to generalise the question of immigration policy and to discuss the whole question of immigration policy. I, on the New Democracy side, have no reason to accept the challenge. However, I am telling you that I shall return during my speech to the question of funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the last Minister of State, Mr Fotis Kouvelis, has tried to put the debate in two molds. The same has been done by previous ministers, but a little more artificially. Mr. Kouvelis did so with legal clarity. He said there are probably two policies in Europe alone. One is the policy of the Visegrad countries, and the other is SYRIZA's policy. Each European citizen, every European party, every democrat in the European Union, is invited to choose between these two standards and to be charged accordingly. You will allow me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I of course refuse to endorse the question - let alone the answer - because, as far as the policies of the Visegrad countries are concerned, we have been directly placed within the European Parliament and within the framework of the European People's Party. We, the New Democracy, the New Democracy of the Leader, Mr. Mitsotakis, are against the Orban phenomenon, to be clear about it. Unless we agree here that we have extended the sense of humor, we have no intention of describing as a policy what the SYRIZANEL Government is doing. Because political means a concrete formation, a concrete concept and a set of measures, which tends in a specific direction. What you are doing is far from this elementary definition of politics, because, ladies and gentlemen, you simply do not know what you are doing. You are formulating great principles in the name of humanity and human rights, when you, with the structures you have built and supported, violated them in the worst and most athletic way, and the country is internationally controlled. And you come here in high tones to teach us a policy lesson and tell us that it is courageous to ask you! I'm keeping your answers. Another Minister told us we should apologize. Excuse us, Mr Ministers, I could not find Mr Mitsotakis asking him for his permission - his proxy I am here - to apologise! I did not know that the opposition when it asked the ministers about the allocation of funds must apologise to them for having tired them and brought them to the House to answer when the press bores! Other Minister told us he was here in a good mood, but we broke him up, because of course we had the nerve to ask! Mr. Ministers, I would suggest you get back together and come back to reality. The reality is that 2018 is over, we enter 2019, at the end of which, at this time of the year, i.e., today is October 29th, will find you in your homes. And I recommend that you do not have that look of arrogance against opposition. Answer what you're falling in love with, if you can, and, if you can't, it's okay. But please suggestions on apology, apologies, etc. keep them for yourself. We're not going to tolerate this vocabulary from you. And, in any case, because you have told us a lot about the issues of the authorities and so on, I have a text in front of me of nineteen humanitarian organisations entitled: 'More than ever before the situation in Moria despite the announcements by the authorities'. It is worth seeing who the signatories are. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have before me a text of UNICEF in English, which describes the situation. It says that Moria - I am sorry I do not translate a word to you for word, I imagine that you do not question me - has the possibility of hosting three thousand people and at the moment hosts nine thousand people and that the children for whom so much were so much at risk. It also reports that every seventy people have a toilet. I'm filing it in the Minutes. The worst and most creepy of all, I read you in a document by Doctors Without Borders, which I sincerely hope is inaccurate, Mr Vitsa: "Doctors Without Borders we operate without any funding from the Greek state and the European Union. In the last six months between January and September 2018, twenty-three patients reported sexual abuse, including rape, in or around the camp, fourteen adults and nine minors, of whom only five years old.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. Also, because Mr. Xanthos told us a number of spokesmans and loudspeakers earlier on the subject of the former Prime Minister and that he invokes illegal immigration, I read to you, Mr. Xanthi, a document sent to me and please check as Minister the accuracy: "Greek Republic. General Secretariat of the Prime Minister. Office for Administration and Organisation. Athens, 11-1-2016. Protocol number D2520. To: Ministry of Interior and Administrative Decentralisation, Office of Deputy Minister. We are sending you a copy of this letter concerning the transfer and installation of illegal immigrants. Signature: Gregory Theodorakis. Precise copy. Krona margarita, if I read the signature well. It's at your disposal from my phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u277	What does that mean, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u278	You understand it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u279	Have you heard the country's Prime Minister talk about illegal immigrants? You're going to drive us crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u280	I am returning, ladies and gentlemen, because I see that I have already spent six minutes on this. Again, what does it mean by politics? Political means an overall approach and measures to resolve a matter. Question: What is your policy? What are you pursuing? Let's know. What do you want from the immigration? Is that a Greek problem? Of course it's not a Greek problem. But does it require a Greek reply in the context of the European Union? What's your plan? You want to tell us? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Apart from the constant wishes and this human rights situation, do you want to tell us something? Because, if I understood correctly, ladies and gentlemen, there was absolutely nothing to be said here. Indeed, especially for Moria, we were told not to be concerned, because for some reason it is not right to be concerned - I do not know why, the Minister will explain to us - but to look at Samos, as if one problem is resolved, as if one evil were lifting the other evil, as if one violation of human rights was lifting the other human rights violation. The only thing we have agreed is that some EUR 1.600 000 has been made available to the country. I've got them from certain sources, too. The Minister read them, so there's no reason to repeat them. I would like to ask the following questions, however: firstly, to be within the question. Four ministers have responded here, of which he has told you that he has no competence. Clear. We could discuss the funds for the internal security fund, but that is not the question of the question. He says he has no competence, he has not absorbed funds. From there on, the debate is limited to the remaining three. So, to understand, the remaining three ministers present assure the National Representation that everything was done well? Is that the content of your answer? Say it to us clearly. We are coming here to tell you that in EUR 1,600 000, what has been absorbed from this - obviously, Mr Vitsa, has not yet been absorbed - it has been well absorbed. Of course, there have been no competitions where there have been no competitions, but - if I understood correctly - you said that the responsibility lies with the Court of Auditors or, in any case, with exceptional circumstances. Of course, you were right to say that exceptional circumstances after four years of constant problem and two of the previous government are not understood. There is nowhere in the case-law of the European Court of Justice in the world for six years. Anyway, is that your opinion? Tell us. Let us directly tell us that the funds have been made available. Tell us directly that all the press releases are wrongly mentioned. Tell us directly that you take the political responsibility for administering these funds. Tell us. Don't start generics. We are talking about the simple management of funds here. Don't tell us OLAF isn't investigating. I am telling you in his announcement: "We can confirm that OLAF has launched an investigation into alleged irregularities involving European feeding funds for refugees in Greece following relevant information received from DG HOME in 2017." Do we agree on that? ‘As the investigation is under way’, he says, ‘OLAF will not comment further on the case in order to ensure the protection of the confidentiality and confidentiality of the investigation’. Research is being done. As for you, the politically responsible, this investigation has nothing to do with it, because it was all well, yes or no? That's what you tell us. All the rest is left to answer this specific question. Ladies and gentlemen, my time is running out. I've got a little dentistry, of course. I would also like to make a comment, as I always do as a Parliamentary representative, on the wider issues of topical and urgent subjects of major importance. I am referring to the new finding of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, made by the letter of the Prime Minister of the country, on constitutional revision. Ladies and gentlemen, to understand, this government, in the last six months of its lives, remembered the need to revise the country's charter? Does this government, whose reason is totally biased in all its appearances, completely hybrid, totally degrading, consider that it has created the climate it needs to discuss either the National Representation or the country's issues relating to constitutional reform? This government which was negotiating, whether this is Skopje, Albania, or the Cyprus issues, did so in secret and indisputablely, without ever asking the Opposition either viewed synergy or perception or aid, did this government come to us at the end of its term of office to send us letters on constitutional revision? Listen to what the letter speaks about strengthening the rule of law! The strengthening of the rule of law by a government whose Minister threatens the officials of the rest of the parties to put them in prison! The letter refers to strengthening the rule of law. This government is being proclaimed for the rule of law. It refers to the protection of common goods. Who? The Government which has allowed any public insurance system to be dissolved in the country. It also refers to the favourite subject, the referendum democracy. Of course, we can do more referendums. As you respected the 2015 referendum, so respect the next ones. Obviously, you miss referendums to start changing positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say this and I am coming back to the question. I did not want to talk about the things that New Democracy has done on immigration. We had a clear policy, we were challenged by SYRIZA, we were exalted by SYRIZA. The former Minister, Mr Mouszalas, asked, in his knowledge, for apologies for New Democracy, and this issue has ended. Sorry has been accepted. What I am telling you, however, is that what you are doing and how you manage the issues is lacking seriousness. I would ask you, then, to come to the debate, first of all, in the way that the ministers in question come to the debate and see if, at this late hour, we can improve the unacceptable situation that you have created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u281	Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, MP of Corinthia, Mr Psychoyos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers responsible have responded with a sufficient degree, giving all the necessary information and presenting a full picture of the Greek Government's efforts on the issue called "refugee - immigration". I would like to begin by tabling what a previous colleague has tabled, the information bulletin of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, and I invite you to study it, so that we can talk about specific data and data. In particular, to see what it says about sea rescues by heroic ports, such as Kyriakos Papadopoulos and others, about the arrests of traffickers, about the voluntary returns that have been made, about forced returns, about international protection, so far, and to see what applies to unaccompanied minors and the law on them - which I will refer to next - to - to see what the national strategy for integration into education, health, medical care, culture and then to discuss specific data on what applies to refugee immigration. So I present it for your study and knowledge. [[At this point, the Member, George Psychogios, presents for the minutes the abovementioned newsletter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what we have to understand in this Chamber is that we are talking about a multi-dimensional and multi-factorial issue, with many parameters, that goes beyond the country's limits and beyond the country's powers. This is an issue that needs to be seen in a pan-European and global manner and the answers that will be given to be collective in any case. If we do not see and deal with the big picture, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are only talking on a vacant basis and we are not going to achieve anything. At the moment, the refugee - immigration - is at the heart of European debates and policies and, on the one hand, we have the progressive, democratic, left-wing and liberal forces and, on the other hand, we have the powers of the extreme right, with part of the European People's Party, which sees - Mr Orban and Mr Kurts - our fellow citizens as parasites, who must stay away from our countries. These are policies and principles which are contrary to humanism and solidarity, but even to the basic concepts and provisions of European and international law. Unfortunately, in public statements and the Chief of Staff of the Opposition and officials are identified in the economic and labour field with Orban and Kurts and have not separated their position about the refugee - immigration in relation to their xenophobic and other statements. In any case, we see that the ghost of the extreme right is once again misled over Europe and, while the right adopts the far-right agenda, this will be giggled and the only opposition will be those powers which defend self-evidentness, namely the Geneva Treaty, which you call 'open borders'. We therefore also have the Greek Government, which is almost alone in this unfavorable European scene of human rights acquired and respected, for the fair distribution of responsibilities between the Member States, to fight for the basic right to family reunification - in fact, I have not heard you say anything about the activation of family reunification recently to Germany, I would like you to say something - to shout and remind the generic causes of this issue, which are wars, dictatorships, poverty, social inequalities. Inside, then, our Government, since 2015, has been making a huge effort to respond with humanity and solidarity on this issue. We ourselves are the first to make self-criticism and we are well aware of the difficult and hard situation on the islands, with a difficult agreement with Turkey, with legal problems, but we are serving, but it has been imposed by the closure of borders by your own allies, not by us. The infamous funds have been mentioned by the relevant Minister in detail. What I would like to note is that much of this funding goes to international organisations and non-governmental organisations, which, at European level, should concern us, because those who should take more are the states, in order to make policy planning and implementation. But it seems that this overall attack - and it is not just the issues of funds, within your question, that you mention other issues - about the refugee - immigration from New Democracy. You refer, for example, to the inactivity of the government in relation to an issue of the highest social sensitivity, such as unaccompanied minors. Do you really have a picture that structures hosting unaccompanied minors have gradually increased? Or rather, when we brought the relevant bill to the House, what exactly did you vote on? For it appears - and you know it well from the Minutes of this House - that you voted 'no' at first, you said 'no' and you voted against the majority of the articles on the committee. And you now have the courage to come and talk about unaccompanied minors, with a policy of purely deterrent and exclusion. Let us see, however, the structured policy that has been heard by your representatives. What is structured policy? I read: "Migrants have filled kindergartens and Greeks cannot enter the nursery. That's it.' Who said that? Mr Samaras said so on 13 June 2012. I put the relevant report in the Minutes, as well as the vote in the House on the draft law on the commission of minors. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's our policy on this? It is the preparation of a comprehensive training plan by the Ministry of Education for the Refugees, through the Ministry of Education and the reception classes, with enormous efforts of the officials of the Ministry of Education, who are continuing unrelentingly, as are the hundreds of twenty-six thousand posts in "voucher", instead of eighty thousand posts, in order to get all children into nurseries, without discrimination. But there are other issues, which may not be why you did not want to remind them of them, such as the creepy acidic name of the "Greek Dios", which you implemented, actually doing a witch hunt. Eighty-five thousand immigrants and refugees were taken to police stations, whether they had papers or not, or waited for their permission. You also filled the detention centers with people holding eighteen months, but more than eighteen months. Not even the heaviest criminals are being held in this period. We observe the quarter and half of the year for asylum seekers and others as a rule, and say that we need to limit it further, only for offenders, who have a problem with cohabitation or who are criminal. Let us not, of course, talk about the aggregation of judgments by the European Court of Human Rights, the European Commission reports on torture and other cases, such as Manolad, Pharmaconissi and go by saying. In short, you have trampled every elementary concept of human rights, both for immigrants and for any other socially vulnerable group, for our weakest fellow people, for whom you did not admit that there is a humanitarian crisis, for the positive, for students with the "Court". Generally, there was a periphery of sedation in everything. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, for us there are no invisible people. We see rights and obligations to everyone, without discrimination. We do not want anyone on the sidelines to be a waste of a system that you have put into practice with enthusiasm. We say we need to improve our hospitality conditions. We say that there must be better integration of refugees and immigrants at all levels, in education, in health, in education, in education, in work, in culture and in sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u283	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u284	I shall conclude, Madam President, and excuse me. For us, the bar of this government, this party and a solidarity movement, which has been supporting the first time, does not make any discounts on such matters. We ask for more, we demand more and we will impose them on Europe too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u285	Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, has now been given the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Starting, I want to expressly condemn the death of the relative in Albania, Constantine Katsifa. We don't know if this death is due to murderous action, I don't have any evidence. There is conflicting information, some of them are also provided by the Greek Police. I do not have the evidence to claim that I know exactly what happened, but I have Eddie Rama's statement, which, as a party, we condemn, a statement that is interpreted in the first and most simplest way, leads to the conclusion that there, in Albania, their extremists are killing them. We stand against such statements. After all, ladies and gentlemen, our disappointment by the Albanian Minister began on the day after his first election. Therefore, we are no longer surprised by this man. On the subject. The more polite the demagogues' words, the more disgusting their face is: "Dahahu", "Calamary was Amygdaleza". Today I directly ask the Ministers responsible: What is Moria after four years of your own government? And to watch Mr. Vitsa, what's Samos, Moria's worst? Tell us. Is that your picture or isn't it? Whatever you say, you come here to the House on all matters and you make speeches, as if you were speaking in a void. You do not speak in a void, you speak after four years of governance, where functional incompetence and moral analgesia are seen here, in the sense that you are saying anti-racists, but what you are not saying it. But it's your plays. Moria says so. Samos says so. They state it all that you have done from their results and not from your words: founding within the hinterland and interpreting on the street criminals for immigrants, irregular people. When you don't get the facts out of you, you change the words and, indeed, you're making a criminal violation, you're committing a criminal offence and using words, but let it be, since that's not our issue tonight. Founding in the hinterland or delinquent criminals on the streets and waiting for all, migrants and refugees for a year or more on the islands, which raise costs and expose us as a country. Nor have you succeeded in organising or increasing the number of returnees, that is, asylum seekers, and they are ultimately not entitled to it. And only questions I have to ask you. We all have the picture. And you came here to talk about government policy by making speeches that don't correspond to reality. First question. Who finally decides on the allocation of funds to individual actions? Are you the government, the European Commission, other international organisations? Who is to blame - I am referring here to the incorporation - not even one hour Greek lessons for adults? Who is to blame that few refugees have managed to get supplies to stay here in life? Who is to blame that immigrants circulate uncontrollable in the country? We have raised these political issues from the outset. We have never raised a question of morality with regard to the management of criteria. Mr Buddouris put them first, your Secretary-General, who I heard a day of surprise on television to report to Mr Muzala on irregularities. Mr. Heliopoulou, Director General, the same man you appointed! You're talking about mismanagement of funds. On this point, you came here and said everything was fine. If it's all right, then these people are unreasonable. However, the fact that everything is well has to be proved by concrete evidence rather than by statements made by the ministers in the national Parliament. After all, with a recent ministerial decision, you yourself have undertaken the possibility of concluding real estate leases because of the administrative weakness of the Reception and Identifying Office. Question: Is there a chance that the cost of hosting seven people in one room will reach EUR 2.100 per month? Answer us: how much will the total cost of hosting some people in Grevenas be? You don't have to tell us today, tell us tomorrow. As a parliamentary group, we are patient to get your answers. Mr Kouveli, the Ministry of National Defence has taken a EUR 56 million line for immigration, which is not part of the national programme, which has been approved by the European Union and is now struggling to approve it. One of the objects has to do with the Coast Guard. That's your responsibility, isn't it? The Coast Guard, the Port Guard, isn't it yours? The government has, therefore, approved a EUR 56 million fund, but not for you, for the Ministry of National Defence. Why is that outside a national program? In what sense has the Ministry of National Defence been financed, outside planning, and how will the gap be covered if the European Union does not approve this accession? That and a lot more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, after four years and having followed Mr Mouszala from the first day he came here, with the difficulty of putting him in Parliament, many big words, very small results, many words 'category' to others, many phrases of self-esteem, but no relation to the picture that all of Europe has about what you do with your daily practice. You're not doing well. And if you think you're overreacting the problems, doing speeches here in the House, it's not like that. Because there is an entire people, there are millions of people watching you. And you have failed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u287	Madam President, may I speak for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u288	How can we characterize it, so that we can comply with the Rules of Procedure? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u289	With colleagues' permission, let me speak for a second, because I have a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u290	Here, you have the floor for half a minute, with the permission of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u291	I thank all my colleagues. Mr Loverdo, you are right when you refer to the European Internal Security Fund. It's right to report. What's not right is that we haven't even got one euro. They simply have various programmes under way. I did not want to concern you before, because the topical question related to management issues and other related issues. But, on the occasion of your reference, I would like, Madam President, to present a detailed note in the Minutes on where this programme is based, in relation to the European Internal Security Fund, to inform all Members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Kuveli. Mrs Zaroulia, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, now has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u293	Golden Dawn asked for a minute of silence to be observed in Parliament in memory of the murdered Greek Konstantinos Katsifa by the Albanian Police. It is a great challenge to reject the request against parliamentary practice and parliamentary morals. The request from the People's Association - Golden Dawn is a request from the entire Greek people, which is shocked by this appalling execution of a Greek, from the Albanian regime, which is persecuting Greekism. The subject under discussion is, indeed, a serious one and certainly cannot be sufficiently analysed in the context of a timely question. Before I put it, however, I would like to make a clear statement, so that I can clarify a few things in order to avoid misunderstandings. For us who are a party of popular, nationalist and anti-immemorandum, the issue of illegal immigration is an open wound. It is a major national issue, which must be resolved immediately. Any financial management or other implications, of course, need to be examined, but only with a view to dealing effectively with the phenomenon. We believe that the problem of illegal immigration has been awkward in our country. We are now talking about population replacement. Golden Dawn, I was the only party against illegal immigration, considers the economic implications of secondary importance. The New Democracy therefore submits to the House a topical question on the opacity and inability to manage the funds for immigration, a question which, even from its title, we understand that all that is interested in and concerned with it is the economic part of the problem. I hope she realizes that for the many years she has been fully identified with the government and that the criticism she has made towards her is at least hypocritical, since together New Democracy and SYRIZA, they are engaged in the - within introductory - 'humanist sport' only because donors pay impatiently. Also, the New Democracy must finally admit that, despite its preparations for the restoration of the Left by power, it has fully adopted its rhetoric. While all the international organizations, including the UN itself, are talking about "diplomacy" and "lathromatic immigrants", in Greece, of the millions of foreigners, recorded as entering more than ninety states of the world, Tsipras and Mitsotakis, together build the dictionary of political correctness, arbitrarily baptizing everyone and everything as "refugees", because, as I said, they are being given careless subsidies. Of course, the truth is that it does not take much thought to see whether this government or the future is capable of dealing with an economic issue transparently. Even if we assume, for the sake of the debate, that the topical question concerns refugees and not the illegal people who are in the country and that he knows exactly what amounts he has received and what purpose your political past gives us the answer alone. What have you managed in a transparent way so far, so that you can do the same with the funds for managing the migratory crisis? Together, you did not vote for the memorials and charged the public? Together, do you not sign deficits, from which all such controversial accounting surpluses arise, so high that the lenders finally draw you from ears back in Brussels, to sign new'structurals', as they describe them as measures? Is it not the New Democracy that owes more than EUR 200 million to the public, because of unpunished bank lending, loans which it admitted, through its Vice-President, that it cannot repay? Together, you did not give the Greeks the money to the banks because they failed business? New Democracy and SYRIZA are not even saying today that "will we be rescued by a new memorandum", with only disagreement about the amount of borrowing and interest? So let aside the concerns about transparency and the proper use of funds and much more, leave aside the late concerns about the living conditions of refugees and illegal immigrants. Neither are your immigration interested in illegal immigration. All you care about is money, even if it comes from slave traders. For the truth, here is a revelation of the Golden Dawn for which you cooperate with, a revelation for which you have never been accountable. What do you have to tell us, tell the Greek people, the Chief of HNDGS, who won the director of a non-governmental organisation, who was active in the field of migration crisis management, by the name of Pano Moraitis? This prized by Mr. Apostolakis - other against which she, Chief of Armed Forces of the State to award NGOs, these are only in "Greek" become - wanted by the authorities, arrested on the charge of the slave trader and currently in prison. This is enough to see how funny the word 'transparency' sounds when some are setting up businesses to manage the needs of their customers to move around. Do you understand what's going on in Greece of 2018? Chief of the country's Armed Forces awards a slave. And no one reacted! Silence from Kammenos, silence from his partner Tsipras, silence from the New Democracy, silence from all of you except us, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. The Minister for Migration Policy has given us some of the figures and figures which cannot be checked at the moment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, one more minute I'm gonna need it. Thank you. Research into the mismanagement of funds for illegal immigrants also started Greek justice, following the order of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to the Chief of the Economic Prosecutor. The Director of the Refugee Refugee and Identifying Service, who had already spoken about "haw" in the management of funds by the state mechanism and also by NGOs, has already been asked to testify, arguing that it is time for the prosecutors to intervene. This investigation of the public prosecutors follows on from the investigation by the European authorities, which is under way. The existence of the scandal in the management of funds is almost self-proof, since it is a multitude of testimonies of people on the islands for the uninterrupted party which members of NGOs had set against them. Moreover, the Hot spot structures clearly show that a fund mismanagement party has been set up. Suffice it to say that Europeans have provided funds for the creation of educational structures in hot spots and in the end used the existing educational structures of the state, that is, schools that go to Greek birds. If you really are moved by the human drama of a refugee, then you would treat it as such and never would you agree to be indifferent to the feelings of compassion and solidarity. But beyond that, there is also a truth in the face of which you close your eyes, the invasion of people who are arbitrarily baptized as refugees. Genuine humanism is not being repurchased or subsidized. Operation unprofitablely and leave them financially out of the way. If you love the man, then you must love the Greek. No one else's interest - whether economic or not - can be placed above the national level. We say it again: Greece cannot withstand other illegal immigrants and Greeks have every reason to be skeptical towards you when it comes to making public evidence of suspicious and opaque transactions that ultimately damage the country, question its integrity and undermine the already fragile social peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u294	Come on, Mrs. Zaroulia, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u295	Please, Madam President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u296	You're welcome, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u297	Instead of using all these resources to reduce crime, in order to combat illegal immigration, in order to strengthen the country's defence, in order to safeguard the land and sea borders, in order to equip the army, you would prefer to pocket funds to represent them - within introductory - 'humanists' and in this House, instead of discussing the real and essential problems, we have the Memorandum partners to fight about whether their pockets are properly and rationally absorbing Europe's funds. The country has entered a dangerous pervert with all those you have illegally brought into our homeland. The only ones who can and have the political will to clear the place from the intrusive elements are Greek nationalists. You're the only one who cares, like we said, is the mortar. The Greek nationalists, who above money put their homeland, are struggling to create a national state that will solve the problem of "lash immigration". Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u298	Mrs Zaroulia, there has been a Parliament decision since the 2000s that the use of the word illegal immigrants is prohibited. In fact, it was a proposal from Mrs Elsa Papadimitriou at the time. Of course, you do it against a coroner, because it is your identity, because you think that's how some admire you. But be more careful next time. As for Mr Apostolakis' point, I hope that the Deputy Minister for National Defence will respond, because such issues as the Constitution cannot be said lightly. Mrs Manolakos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u299	So, Madam President, there are not only reactionary policies that cultivate hatred and racism. The issue of refugee and its management with the already incarcerated is intensified. It is topical and will continue as a point of political controversy and not because there is disagreement between the Government, the New Democracy and the PASOK with the policy of the European Union and the reactionary agreements. On the contrary, you all agree with each other, you agree with the hot spots, with the European Union-Turkey agreement, and with all the decisions of the European Union that enclosed people in Greece. That is why your argument concerns individual management issues that are intensified in the face of the triple elections in Greece in May 2019, which is the most alarming one. Moreover, you are not talking about the causes of refugee and immigration, the imperialist war on the distribution of new energy sources and routes, the profitability of business groups, nor is the imperialist war stopped by the cultivation of American naval death bases throughout the country, where daily war exercises have become bread, but also the European Union's policy and the refugee - migration is becoming even more reactionary and hostile to the people. Both repression and racism are an integral part of the European Union and its Member States. However, the government provokes the European Union's decisions to hide its responsibilities for the conditions of permanent caging, for it continues the same policy as the previous governments and is fully aligned with the European Union's reactionary strategy, while the miserable conditions in hot spots arise where dramas arise in the enclaves, since they are multiple from the capacity they have, many times for pets, great health shortages, education and so on, even by fascists to cultivate their racist hatred and criminal ideology and their action. The Qualified Opposition, however, is also covered for election purposes. Sometimes you adopt extreme right positions, especially in the islands. You're focusing on the impotence of the government. You raise the issue of border security and the different treatment of refugees from so-called 'irregular immigrants', the impact on the inhabitants of the islands and the scandals around the European Union's funds. For us the biggest scandal is that European funds are given to support caging in Greece, feed NGOs, municipalities and circuits. All of you, however, agree with the involvement of individuals in money laundering, whether they are classical businessmen or wear the NGO cloak. However, government and opposition do not show any interest in misery, housing conditions and a number of issues relating to tragic everyday life within hot spots and camps. It is characteristic that in the contracts approved for feeding, there is even less than five euros a day for three meals, breakfast, lunch, dinner, and you are not interested in the working conditions of the workers, the payroll, the constant delays, the payment of employees of the asylum service, workers in NGOs, which each time depends on the flow of these European caging funds. In relation to funds, of course, are there problems? It's real. For example, there is an entrepreneur who has taken 75% of the funds by offering food that most of the time is for flying. However, I should like to make it clear that the JRC in Parliament has never voted for the constant amendments of the last moment brought by the Government and the Ministry of Defence in breach of the provisions in force in its name that refugees should not be left unscheduled. We voted'residents' by putting issues of transparency in the conclusion of contracts, and we were right to do so. We disagree with the continuation of the military's involvement in the refugee issue. We only agreed at the beginning of the construction of the campsites and feeding, because only the army has the means to quickly create housing spaces and feed so many people. From that point on, the responsibility for administration of structures must be reserved for the Ministry of Migration Policy without NGO involvement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Our positions, therefore, on the basis of developments and controversy, are: to close all hot spots, to transfer and submit requests for refugees and migrants to mainland Greece and to move to their countries of choice and destination, to have decent conditions for those who live on the islands, to be vulnerable not to return to the islands, but to be transported together with their file, to be absorbed by workers in hot spots as permanent staff in state structures, to be decapitulated by those who are entitled to family reunification in other countries of the European Union, particularly Germany, which was launched again, but without a cap and quotas. Also, there should be the establishment of the remaining apartments with priority in families, women, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. and there are no unaccompanied minors in hot spots or camps, but they should be installed in state hospitality structures with sole responsibility for state institution rather than NGOs. To have human and decent conditions in the camps and all the necessary measures in front of winter. Also, the necessary medical, nursing and other staff specialties in hospitality structures, at the CYTs, should be recruited. And, of course, all pre-school and school-age children, being part of the public education system, PPPs or morning schools, with the necessary educational, scientific staff, their vaccination, the creation of reception classes, without any intervention by NGOs in the educational process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let us make it clear. When the little boy, Ailan, found himself sketched, drowned on the beach, I don't suppose there's a reasonable person on the planet - and he doesn't have to be moral, elementarily reasonable - who would ask if this kid was from Afghanistan, if he's from Syria, if he's from Iran or anywhere. This is an answer to those who insist in this Chamber on certain divisions. Now we're going to today. I read here from the topical question of the Anti-Population Officer precisely, I am not falsifying anything: "This is a situation which is undoubtedly inconsistent with the country's unprecedented humanitarian aid, a huge financial aid amounting to about EUR 1.667,000, for which it has been repeatedly accepted international criticisms of how it is managed". This is written in the famous question of Officerial Responsibility MPs. How many times does this party have to go through with me to gather? Somehow the same thing told us that the first evaluation would not come out. He's out. She was dreaming of a cutter. He didn't come. She was dreaming of not getting the second evaluation. He didn't come. She was dreaming of a cutter the second time. He didn't come. Dreamed a fourth memorandum. He didn't come. He dreamed of a credit line. He didn't come. I don't want to remind you of anything else. He called for a committee of inquiry, I remember, for the Minister of National Defence, because he spoke with Mr. Yannosakis. Yannusakis was a isovit, a courtesy. From this step, with evidence, we referred to this case. When the isovite Giannusakis, fearful of the eighth murdered, his former prisoner, an Indian, desperate to speak, then the Minister of National Defence told him to do so. What we can guarantee you is to speak with the Minister of Justice, make you a protected witness and say what you know. The self-evident thing. However, let's go to something else for 1,000,000, which was moved on board at that time, by a great-shipper's account on Mr. Giannousakis's account. Why is the Civic Opposition, which is literally self-meaning, never again? Why did he not ask for the Committee of Inquiry again? She forgot, you know. He's never been brought back again. And yet, a desperate party told us the other day that the ancients are sold in the superstition. He's disguised! It's lyssoman from morning to night that pensions will be cut. He wants to terrorize a million and a half people. The budget went to the European Union and was not corrected. On the contrary, it was corrected for six or seven countries. And he comes today and asks this timely question. And I ask: Is it so difficult to look carefully at what the EIA - ICM writes about European funds, how the refugee is managed in Greece and how they are granted? Is it that hard to read? Read it and see the simple, simple, that you are falsely referring to this amount in your question. I say this again, you are falsely referring to this amount. I don't like that word, but I have to say it. Why? Let me tell you right away in the simplest way. From the 1.667 billion you mentioned in your question - it is inaccurate, exaggerated and false - in fact in the Greek state and in all the co-legislative services account for only 397 million over the entire four-year period. How difficult was it to see and to criticise us - no objection - for these 397 million? Because you have the exaggeration inside you. Because you're desperate. Because only with excesses and inaccuracies will you survive. I'm filing this paper. It is an official report of the European Union. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And, furthermore, what prevented you from reading the evidence that the Commission itself gives? And it says in the simplest way: the committee itself, the responsible source of funding, says that it has no element of mismanagement. Are you questioning it? Furthermore, in the money that the European Union gives us, there is control by the relevant Directorate-General, by the Management Authority of Greece, by the Court of Auditors of Greece, as well as by the internal control of each Ministry. It's five checks! What keeps you from seeing them? What prevents you from seeing these simple things so you don't get exposed? I can't talk about it. He was a catapult, the respective minister. That's what he told you differently. And to say one more thing to get in touch with. The case of Yannos Papantoniou in the House recently came. What does it have to do with it? It does. We remembered again in 2005 when the bank accounts made them the number of phones. We remembered that the Chief of Staff Response in June 2017 and the President of PASOK, KINAL, didn't even come to Parliament. I don't want to scratch wounds, I want to remind you. Five Members of the New Democracy, Parliamentary Representatives and so many of the PASOK then talked about intrigues, criminalisation of political life, fiasco. I don't want to remember 'cause I don't want to scratch wounds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We all know that this story has chain reactions. You made a fight then that Toulupaki, the Prosecutor of Corruption, didn't take the place. And if the Interrogator against Corruption didn't insist, she wouldn't take the two hundred and fifty thousand documents. A bold journalist then revealed the list of Lagard, and that's how Mrs. Kuraku's account and the rest that I could say, but I don't have time. What do I mean? You know - and that is why every week you ask for elections - that you have a problem. You also know that Mr. Guardis of "NOVARTIS" is likely to be condomed soon. In the official documents of the case, it was ‘proposal for Adonis’. Despair is not a good counselor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u303	I apologise and conclude, Madam President. A huge issue for humanity, such as immigration, - it is not just for us, Italy or Spain - you download it at cheap opposition level. Mercy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course within six minutes I do not have time to raise all the issues relating to the funds for the refugee crisis. I will focus only on some findings from the Ministries' replies to the almost identical question that the Potami had asked on September 24, 2018. From the Ministry of Development's reply, we now have about sixty thousand refugees and immigrants, of whom about thirty-four thousand are in open hospitality structures, about half of them, seventeen thousand, are on the islands and twenty-five thousand six hundred are hosted by the 'ESTIA' programme. The Ministry of Development also says that resources of EUR 1,13 billion have been allocated and not 1,6 as Commissioner Avramopoulos said. Of these 566 million are up to 2020 from the relevant European Union programme and the remaining 570 million are from extraordinary resources. Of these, then, 570 million of the emergency funds go directly from the European Union to non-governmental organisations and, as the Ministry says, it is not within its competence to carry out such controls. The remaining 182 million go to state bodies. So if we take away the 388 million of NGOs from 1.13 billion, for the remaining 742 million euros, there has to be a state accountability. Let's go to the other department that answered. Instead of trying with his answer to shed more light on the issues of the management, allocation and control of the available Community funds, the Ministry of Citizens' Protection has essentially "blessed a bit of its beards" on the progress of implementing the relevant European programmes financed by the Fund for Asylum, Migration and Integration and the Internal Security Fund for the 2014-2020 programming period. In particular, the Ministry of Civil Protection has simply remained in the submission of amounts and absorption rates on the basis of calls, tendered acts and expenditure, without answering the key questions, i.e. how many checks have been carried out on the expenditure concerned, whether the operational capacity of its beneficiaries has been assessed and whether the result indicators for each operation are monitored. And we go to the defence ministry's answer, which was admittedly quite thorough, with analytical evidence giving us a CD. From this answer there are several gray points, such as many hundred contracts with direct awards, successive renewal contracts up to forty-five times to the same people, awards through negotiation, without having been public notices, clippings, concise tenders and in general many kinds of competitions that were not open. These compose the usual practice that you have been following for over two years, although the exceptional nature of the reception of refugees and immigrants has now acquired permanent characteristics. So the emergency procedures have become normal. The data from the Ministry of Defence indicate that almost 80% of the contract amount relates to the feeding sector. The "lion' share" of this money has been directed by direct awards to a very small number of specific catering companies, which refers to conditions of a special cartel. In particular, the expenditure on the refugee structures of the Ministry of National Defence shows that so far a thousand nine hundred and ninety-one contracts have been concluded, amounting to EUR 112 million, of which 88 million have been allocated for feeding. So I give you the list of the thousand nine hundred ninety-one contracts. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of the thousand nine hundred ninety-one contracts for feeding and structures of the refugee over nine hundred are directly awarded, thirty-three with negotiation without a contract notice and over four hundred with a roughly concise tender. There are still thirty contracts under market research. Finally, all these contracts with a public tender have not even been awarded at 5%. Let's go in details. For example, for the hot spots of the islands of Lesvos, Samos and Kos, a total of two hundred and two contracts totalling EUR 30,4 million have been concluded, of which EUR 27,9 million have been awarded without public tenders to just four companies. A total of EUR 31.4 million have been concluded in Attica. In most cases, feeding contracts do not indicate the duration of the contracts or the number of persons fed. Was there a check? And if so, how is it within the general chaos of the structures? Questions also arise about infrastructure costs. For hospitality facilities in Northern Greece, i.e. Kavala, Thessaloniki, Giannitsa, Chepelov, Konitsa, etc., nearly EUR 19 million were spent with five hundred ninety-four contracts, most directly awarded or in the negotiation process, without publication of a tender notice. An example is Veroia, where of the three hundred and twenty-eight-eight-year contracts worth EUR 8.5 million, only forty-one were made by public tender. These revelations around contracts raise questions, along with what has emerged and mobilised the European Anti-Fraud Office, the famous OLAF. Potami has repeatedly pointed out the curiosity and ultimately mismanagement of the funds for migration and refugee. Our own effort for transparency, accountability and accountability will continue, because control will also contribute to the human living of migrants and refugees, but also to improving the standard of living of the host regions. All of this is analysed if you enter the website of the river, where there are detaileds by region, by structure, with names and details in fifteen densely populated pages all the details. The main conclusion is that, in exceptional circumstances, the summary procedures followed are necessary. These exceptional circumstances can last three months, six months, but certainly not two years, which can be four. In order to catch a place, therefore, the resources where they need to be, to improve the conditions of refugees and not to improve the accounts of some friendly companies, the solution is simple, four words only: publicity, transparency, control and accountability. The extraordinary circumstances, the bulb has passed, and because the bulwark should not be linked to the remula, although it rhyme, we should be careful. Whenever we hear emergencies, we should not let opaque or uncontrolled procedures be made. When publicity, transparency, control and accountability disappear in the name of the urgency, that must be the exception. When that becomes the rule, then there is something rotten in the kingdom of Danimarky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u306	We are now coming back to the honourable Members. Mr. Varvitsiotis has all his denology. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u307	Finally, the government decided to come to the House to answer after the orchestra of publications, questions, the international conflict. And what did the government tell us? He told us he did all right, that he couldn't do any different, that there was no other way. Was there no other way than the thousand nine hundred "photographic" contracts? Wasn't there any other way than sanitary impoverishment in Moria? Wasn't there another way for the unacceptable performance of unaccompanied minors? Wasn't there another way to keep the country from hanging on the international press scarves? Was there no other way in which conditions of hospitality really would be human, that there would not be the phenomenon of incontinental ghettoism and that, on the other hand, there would also be a feeling of safety for islanders? Wasn't there another way? If there was no other way, it is good to abandon your chairs quickly, because we believe there is another way. We've heard here two theories. One is 'what to do and how to deal with this extraordinary situation'. What emergency situation? What evidence does it justify that in 2018 we are living in exceptional situations to use the legislation on emergency situations? What does it justify in managing the funds that the positions for unaccompanied minors from 2017 to today remain the same? Not even one has been built. Not even one! Thousands of a hundred and fourteen you had on 15-10-2017, a thousand hundred ninety-one on 15-7-2018. These are the elements of the EKKA. Furthermore, you have not published any particulars. It follows that five hundred and thirty-eight unaccompanied minors are homeless and for another three hundred eight are not mentioned. I put it in the Minutes, so you don't move the finger that you have humanism. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If Ammondaleza was Dachau, what's Moria? And if then you yell at the scoops and air condition, today, for one toilet for seventy people, for all the humanitarian organisations that mark the phenomena of ghettoization and psychological exhaustion, and find that simple hygiene rules are not respected in any of the hosting and hot spots, what do you have to say? And since the numbers were discussed, looking for the details, Minister, I take the information that your government puts up, the ones you publish every day. I would remind you that last October you had four thousand and seventy - two arrivals, when you have now reached two thousand six hundred ninety - eight. What's the crisis? Why has Moria two and a half - three thousand more than last year? Why? We told you when you brought the asylum law, that this law is not going to deal with the problem. And you lied to us because we didn't call you much. When we told you that what you're doing won't be problematic, you told us we don't know how to read the return details. Over the last two and a half years, since the implementation of the Europe-Turkey Joint Declaration has started, over a hundred and a thousand people have come to our country. Do you know how many you've been back in total? Three thousand. And you want me to tell you the evidence in more detail? Half of you have sent them on the basis of the joint declaration and the other half have sent them under the existing conventions, the Greek-Turkey readmission protocol and the EU-Turkey readmission agreement. So you're sending back people. Why don't you send more? Why do you let asylum cases go so far? Why have you not managed to set up more committees to work quickly? Did we tell you we wouldn't help you in this House? We're open, we tell you. Finally, because governments are no longer judging - the easy words you have told us here and indeed some of you have escaped - but the result is, Mr Xanthi, that they are only serving two doctors in Moria. Anyone else? The recognition of the problem, when it is constantly done by successive ministers, without being treated, seems to me to show one thing: incompetence. That's why you're checking. And I am glad that almost all of the government has come to answer questions that we did not ask about. We will ask you again, and we will ask you about all the rest, and we will ask Mr Kouvelli, because for three and a half years the money allocated to the Ministry of Shipping has been untapped to strengthen border guards and has still not absorbed a euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Varvichiotis, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u309	Madam President, and with your tolerance, because there has been an excess of all the previous ministers, I would like to close by saying this: the criticism we are making today and for which we are also being snatched by you, Minister, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have made it to the Council of Europe, and you have said that the circumstances are unacceptable. But today I saw you defend other things. So bilingualism cannot go on outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u310	That's your privilege.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u311	The fine things were done today by the government which showed that there is no other way, that it has no other way, and that way it can. That's why we're telling her to leave an hour ago. That is why we are calling for elections and let Mr Papachristopoulos say other things, because we can manage the funds more transparently, as we have done in the past, with greater efficiency and with fewer victims at sea, as we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u312	Mostly that, Mr Varvitsiotis. You've shown samples.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mammoth meeting. Respect the time and the viewers. Mrs. Vulture, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, let me say that I have come to the conclusion in today's debate that monitoring the way in which funds for refugee - immigration are allocated - cannot be done, because there is the law of 4368 allowing direct awards. Also, because there has been a great deal of mention of the European Union and the Commission's controls, I would say that the Commission is controlled by the European Court of Auditors for mismanagement of Community funds for refugees. Please, I will submit to the Minutes all the actions of the European Court of Auditors. Therefore, do not invoke it. Thirdly, for the Minutes, too, Mr. Kouvelis has shown that he does not know that his ministry is making money. I have here the communication from the Ministry of Economy and Development. 14% of the money goes to his ministry to find out what's going on with his ministry. You said that our northern borders have been closed down by our allies, while Mr Zaev, who is Alexis' best friend and whom the European Union has put him. And you are the first government to accept self-restraint, because Mr Tusk said that, with the permission of the twenty-eight, our borders were closed. Mr Zaev has closed the border, your friend, to do the thanks of the European Union for the agreement on Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u315	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Orban...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u317	I'll tell you about Orban. You, Mr. King, said we should be chased by the Henrys. How many Henrys will come after you? For the dead in Calolimno in November 2017? About the grandma and the granddaughter in 2016 that burned in Moria? For immigrants killed in car accidents? Recently, eleven dead in Kavala. For the dead of Evros? For the crime in Philippi, which you must tell us how these foreigners, who caused the death of the twenty-five-year-old, were out - why have you abolished the laws on detention - while they were arrested for robbery, violation of the law on arms and illegal entry into the country? As for Orban, Mr. Tsipras, colleagues, visited Budapest, Mr. Orban on September 12, 2017. As he informed us after the Prime Minister's Press Office, namely Mr Tsipras, their meeting took place in a climate of respect and openness in the different opinions. I'll let you know that Mr. Orban didn't say a word to Mr. Tsipras when he went there. All he cared about leaving was to tell him "The village of Belogannis and your eyes!" That's what he told him, that's what he found to tell him Orban. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u318	Is that what you read? Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u319	Let it end now. Mrs. Buddhism is more dynamic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u320	The press office announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u321	You're a journalist. Is that what you read from what you read?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u322	Yes, indeed, what I read to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u323	Minister, let me finish. You'll say two words at the end. Finish it, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u324	Yes, Minister, this is what I understood, that he was very small and sweet and that he respects Orban's different views. And you come here and tell us Orban is your enemy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u325	If you understood that, what can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u326	Yeah, that's what everyone understands. You alone don't understand. And you, Mr. Xanthe - to finish - told us things. Let me tell you that yesterday ELSTAT just gave evidence from the CDC. We have a 20% increase in infectious diseases in 2017. I don't know if it's related or not, but look, you won't keep showing us a virtual reality here all the time. And yes, Mr Vitsa - and I am coming back to you - when a statement comes out which does not say that Mr Tsipras pointed out to Mr Orban that his policy towards immigrants is condemned, only they spoke of respect on either side of the House, yes, that is my conclusion. And all he cared about was the village of Beloganne.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u327	Finish it, my colleague. The funds are said to be the question. All right, you're criticising that the ministers aren't talking about the funds. And you who have signed... Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u328	But the ministers did not talk about the funds, they said that we are Orban and that we should have Henrys, while the dead go and come. See what's going on in northern Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u330	Are you saying that for the dead, Mrs. Vultisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u331	For Philippi the dead, tell us about it. Yes, we had a "Parmaconissi". One!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u332	Mrs. Vulture, sit down, first and don't move your hand!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u333	What can I tell you? You say that about the dead? Can I tell you what's going on in Greece? You don't respect the dead! Are these things? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u334	And you, Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u335	You're saying we have to have married women...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u336	I won't let you interrupt me when I interrupt you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u337	Minister, please! Mrs. Vuldesis, you said it was Friday's law. Now who did you remember? We're all doing it. What can we do? It's all, it's all! It's all Tsipras' fault, it's known. Now Mr. Athanasios has the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u338	No, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u339	Can you hear me? You've spoken seven minutes and thirty-seven seconds. It wasn't me in the Bureau, but I see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u340	Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u341	You have a minute. Leave it 'hear it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u342	Let me speak, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u343	Did I give you time? I'll tell you how much you'll talk. You will speak, Mr. Athanasios, within two minutes, by concession. And if you want, say specific things. Don't remember that again. That's why you're wasting your time. You say what you want. Talk about the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u344	You have a tendency here, but also in the Committee on Institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u345	Don't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u346	You're disturbed by my word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u347	From now on, it's counting your time. Don't answer me. Say what you want to hear from your fans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u348	Very soon, Minister of Health, you were not used to us in such koruna and biasing speeches as your deputy and your word was biased today and very intense. In fact, you used the worst appearance of the divisional speech - why? - because he was intertwined with inaccuracies and the preaching of humanity. And the preaching - you know - humanism is what divides people, who is more humanist than the other, but we will not give you humanism, because we have proved it as an order and as islands. Therefore, it is not right and you should be more careful about this, but also be informed and I will explain why. If you were to deal with refugee issues more humanitarian, why in Moria would you allow three thousand four hundred seventy-five beds to go up to ten thousand two hundred and this morning be seven thousand five hundred eighty-four? Now, with regard to the other thing you said, Minister, that you gave medical care and so on, I inform you that medical care had been given to the Government of New Democracy in 2012 and even free education to all regardless of legal and illegal immigrants. In fact, I would remind you - or look into it - that Mr Fuchelle, Mr Merkel's Deputy Minister, and the Commission representative, Mr Reichenbach, had come here and asked for additional funds, which were approved for these very reasons. So it was not accurate what you said. And to tell you, too, the following: The anti-racist law, in 4285 2014, which I had the honour of proposing, you did not vote for him. Why didn't you vote for him? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, Mr Psychoyière, you should say exactly what Mr Samaras said. Mr. Samaras said: it's not gonna happen, not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u349	All right, Mr. Athanasios. Mr. Samaras will be here to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u350	Let me go, Madam President. I'll be done in a minute. I mean, two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u351	I told her about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no. You said inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u353	Okay. But answer for another person, you don't need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Samaras said that he cannot be the children of the Greeks outside and be the other means. He didn't say that it shouldn't be just Greeks. Read the full statement. Mr Kouvelli, whom I particularly honour because we used to work with our old qualities, called him for the simple reason, because of competence. Why? Mr Varvitsiotis was very careful about the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Kouvelis is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u356	It also refers to the reasoning of our question, because the port is also responsible for the flows, but in addition...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Athanasios, why do you insist on speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u358	Madam President, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u359	The Minister is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u360	He spoke thirty-six minutes instead of twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u361	You'll all hear it now. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u362	I'm done. Mr Kouvelli - so that impressions are not created - we have called him because there is a special question. It is the second question: why has no control mechanism for NGOs been set up so far? Because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u363	You're answering. Respect a little time and tiredness of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u364	Let go, Madam President. It doesn't. I'm bothering you. I know. But you'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u365	Yeah, 'cause what you're saying is awesome!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u366	Because, without Mr Kouvelis or Mr Vitsas being responsible, it might be for the officials of the non-GBM NGOs to go out and throw them at each other as they did on their predecessors. That is why there is a very clear question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u367	Okay. You're done then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u368	I'm done. Mr. Vitsa, you wondered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u369	What does that mean, Mr. Athanasius? Are you ignoring me? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u370	The war began in 2012 and 2013. In 2014, there were no major massacres in Syria. But there was border surveillance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u371	In 2015, I invited them! It's well known, Mr. Athanasios! Come on, sit down! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u372	Dismissal orders, you give. You call it public. Tell the House. You've been abducting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u373	Let go, Mr. Pallie. You're known and you're not hiding. Today, ladies and gentlemen, only 11% are Syrians, who are potential refugees. They're not refugees yet. 49% are Afghans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u374	Now who are you talking about? I want Mr. Athanasios' microphone to be closed. It can't be done. Five minutes won't speak, Mr. Athanasios. It's not possible! Learn to be together at last! What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u375	On the subject of Mr Vitsa I publicly recognised his contribution to the implementation of the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u376	Who's listening to you now? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u377	Since Mr. Vitsats spoke thirty-six minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u378	You'll see how much his time is and how much he talked. Who are you to decide on how much the other guy speaks? That is why there is the Bureau. Sit down, please. I won't stop. I'm going to interrupt you all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u379	That's unauthorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u380	Yes, it's unauthorized, and what you're doing is in the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u381	And it's not the first time you've done it. If you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I could break him, too. But I do not do it because I respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u382	Who do you respect? This is where you've reached six minutes. Please. You've had half a minute and you've been talking for six minutes. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u383	You're all talking, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u384	All right, Mr. Athanasios, you've found lawyers. Sit down, though. I can't stand this. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u385	We know your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u386	You have made Turkey by an institutional partner unreliable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Treasury has spent all his time. The ministers have all exhausted their vocabulary and dentistry. I ask you, Mr. Vitsa: do you want Mr. Do you want to precede Mr. Dendias as Parliamentary Representative, if he wants to do the dentistry, and talk after that, or do you want to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u388	If Mr. Dendias wants to talk, I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Vitsa, you had twenty and ten minutes of speech and you have spoken thirty-four minutes. You normally have a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u390	Thirty-six minutes he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u391	It wasn't me at the time. Here I am told he spoke thirty-four minutes and forty seconds. You will not replace the Bureau. I see what I'm saying, because I wasn't in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u392	If he says inaccurate, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u393	Do I call them inaccurate? If my colleague has written a mistake, I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u394	If Mr. Vitsats spoke six more minutes, I'll talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Vitsa, you'll talk for two minutes. The subject is exhausted. People have understood what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u396	I also spoke as Minister for Migration Policy and on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, who manages all this. I don't want more than five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u397	I don't mind you talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u398	I said I spoke on my behalf. I shall refer only to what you have said, and I will say a word about what Mr Teddy said about the constitutional review. I have heard Mr Tindemans' eight-minute interesting report on the definition of policy from his twelve-minute speech. But how do we make politics? Mr Dendias said that there was the term 'death immigrant' in a text of the Prime Minister's office. The truth is that there is no such term in the text of the Prime Minister's office. The term exists in the complaint that sends, like the Prime Minister's office, to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Mr. Consolas insists that tourism is affected. The actual figures are: Kos, May's 20% increase, June's 17% increase, July's 12% increase. Lesvos, May increase 23%, June increase 50%, July increase 28%. Samos, May increase 80%, June increase 20%, July increase 20% compared to 2017. We're not going that way. Even worse, Mr. Loverdos says that if you take seven people to Grevena and put them in one room, seven times 10 euros per person for thirty days, EUR 2.100 in the room. It's not like that! Because every Grevena hotel gives specific places to specific rooms and is paid for it, 10 euros per person. He was paid EUR 36 from the non-governmental organisations and international organisations in Grevenna. Is that how we do politics? Do you want to go further? Mr. Athanasios, I am addressing you now, not something you have said, because you know. Has there been a suicide in Moria? And I'm talking about not in the last three and a half years, but in the last six years. For rapes, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u399	I said don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u400	For this post the Police of Mytilini makes a preliminary examination to investigate the relevance of the incidents mentioned and a preliminary action to reveal unknown offenders, that is, we have mobilized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u401	The Minister of Health knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u402	Mr. Dendias says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u403	Please, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u404	It's addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u405	Listen to me. Of the nineteen NGOs that have signed this complaint, three operate within Moria and two of the three are legal support for immigrants. That's what he said. I'm watching Mr. Varvitsiotis. He's not watching me. His dentology was the same as the dentology he made a few days ago in the timely question. In this particular question, nothing, since the evidence appeared and everything was given. Nothing. I'm waiting for the next questions. End...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u406	In our tritology!- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u407	In your tritology. Finally, following on from this document, which was addressed to the Secretary-General and to avoid misunderstandings, I wanted to make it clear that the points and wording of the document in question were intended to show possible failures and difficulties in implementing the government's policy on the refugee - immigration and not to lay down personal responsibilities for specific individuals, which, moreover, is neither my responsibility nor my intention. The former Director of HNTF, when I ordered HSF for the complaints he had made, do not bring the man back to this debate here again, do not mention him as your argument has answered him, he has answered himself and he does not know or remember it on 23-7-2018, responding and has not come to the HSF to answer specifically. We should be serious. As far as the issue - and I am closing down, Madam President - of the constitutional review, I did not understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u408	Minister, we don't have a problem. Speak as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u409	I won't ask you, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u410	Mr Tindemans, I did not understand: should Article 86 be repealed or not? I imagine you agree, too. The Members' immunity article should change, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u411	The Constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u412	Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u413	To be supervised in common goods on the part of the state, yes or no? Are these without a change in the constitution? I don't know how you understood it, but in six months from now it'll be May, in one year it'll be October. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to say to you - and I will not use tritology - that it was a process that, in a sense, I was able to say what I wanted in a difficult and marginal situation. I would like to say another one. The people who are on the islands right now and we sympathize - I understand it and hope it comes out in the Practical, I do not blame you - on 90% are people who have come in the last five months, not these years, etc. On the islands the Asylum Service has increased 30% of decision-making and 50% of performance in the summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u414	All right, Mr. Vitsa. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u415	Do you know when the date is?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u416	Do not take the date of hearing, because when they come to mainland Greece, Mr Varvitsiotis, they meet the five hundred and sixty thousand immigrants in 1990 and 2000 who have not yet taken papers. Excuse me, I don't show you with your finger. It's a way of speaking, don't get it wrong. They haven't taken papers and are still in the asylum procedure, when Saint Panteleimon was created, Patra, Igoumenitsa, Koumoundourou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u417	Peter Rally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u418	Peter Rally and he goes by saying. I don't want to open old puppies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u419	Minister, all right. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u420	That's all I want to say. It was a good process for me. From tomorrow morning, for you to know, at 7:30', the police report will come to me, at 8:30', the report from the islands will come to me, at 9 a.m. I will discuss with the director of my office what further we can do, then with my Secretary General, Mr. Papadimitriou, who monitors how we can resolve a series of economic and other issues, as well as with the Secretary-General for Reception and Identification, we will continue to fight. We're not saying the situation is good. The situation, especially in Samos and Mytilini, of Lesbos, is marginal. But we'll fight and solve it. Let me say that there was something unacceptable here from the well-known faction that got up and left a moment ago, which is what he is doing? Here's the poaching. He denounces and accuses the Chief of HNDGS, which we must all respect and be proud of, in my opinion. At least I'm proud to meet him and work or, if you want, I worked with him, because in Greek Shipping Awards he was invited to give a prize. How many times have you done it, Mr. Athanasios, or do I give someone a prize? And the lady comes out of Golden Dawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u421	Did we say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u422	I'm talking about writing them in the Minutes. I'm not answering you. So this lady from Golden Dawn comes out and she's doing this disgrace in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Minister. Mr. King, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u424	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u425	Minister, we didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u426	I don't blame you. You haven't heard me say, "Now bring the twenty texts...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u427	Minister, you're done. Don't go on. For Christ's sake! What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u428	Minister, we are fighting for our islands. They have no tourism, they have nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Vitsa, listen to me in a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u430	Please! What am I doing here? I'm posing the decorative element? Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u431	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u432	Minister, tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Athanasios, I wonder about your strength until late at night. If you did that as president of the court...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u434	If you were from Mytilini, so would you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u435	All right, now, you understand. They hear you, they see you. You do not give the good example, Mr Athanasios, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u436	Come and join us and see what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u437	You do not give it a good example and you were in a position before you came to the seat of this House as a judge. Secondly, I started to tell you that I have a great deal of wonder why this question was raised by the New Democracy and I will tell you why. Mr. Varvitsiotis told us, Mr. Dendias asks us and they ask us to answer. What should we answer? We gave all the answers. You've got the evidence, too. Mr Mavrotas took all the information with 'cd', we gave it all in detail to 'DENGY'. So what do you ask? You ask things from press reports, because someone said something. Good. You don't have any evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u438	We're here with evidence! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u439	Let go, Mr. Athanasios, then. You don't have any evidence and everything is legal. At the same time, as far as the Armed Forces and those who managed this crisis are concerned, do not insult them. You spoke all the time about what attitude this SYRIZA government was holding towards the refugee. Look, thank God this government has taken this stand! Fortunately it was a government during this time of crisis, because unfortunately we have a closed borders and there are also those with whom you are involved. This is where some sell for free cheeks. They speak and shout in here - and forgive me for the phrase, I take it back perhaps if it is not stylish, but so - but outside they say nothing. Nothing! And they are within this people's party, where they are most responsible for where they led us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u440	You have not read the original New Democracy action programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u441	I don't want to get tired anymore, Madam President. I'd like to say one last thing. I would also like to say as Deputy Minister of National Defence for Mr Apostolakis. Mr. Apostolakis is a man who as Chief of the Armed Forces honors the Armed Forces. He is the one who has operated visionally, with the contribution of all, of course, the Armed Forces in a period of economic crisis and held these Armed Forces with strong deterrent power. At the same time, he formed another spirit of democratic, constitutional logic in the Armed Forces. He's deepened that and he's honored. It also upgraded the social role of the Armed Forces. So what some who have the swastika in their hands for the Armed Forces is wrong, and it is also to our credit that the Golden Dawn was not represented this year in the exercise of MONTHS. And it was important for me that those who have the swastika in their hands should not be in the exercises of the Greek Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u442	Mr Blonde has the floor just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u443	Does Mr. Treasury want to speak and then I'll take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Teddy, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u445	Does the Minister have the psychological need to have the last word?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u446	It usually doesn't work that way?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u447	Whatever you want, there's no question. I'd like to say a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u449	I will run out of the Chamber, Madam President. I'm not gonna use them, I don't need nine minutes. I think colleagues are pretty tired. First of all, on the substance of the debate, I should like to start with that. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that has been raised - and it has not been answered to you, to be honest - is double. The first is whether and whether special legislation is correctly used after two and four, six years of crisis in immigration. There can be no positive response to that. It was opposed by the four ministers - silence, as if there were no. The clear argument that it cannot constitute an exceptional case, which lasts for six years, has not been answered. The case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities - and indeed any reasonable person other than the case-law - had been invoked, but there was no answer because the Government continues to select this procedure, rather than having proceeded to tender. And the second is whether or not these tenders, in the way they are awarded, hide from behind things for which the government should apologize or not. I would like to add that, from the silence of the four Ministers, the government assumes the full political responsibility for these competitions and for the awards and everything. Therefore, we will see in this respect in the future. On the subject of the letter from the Prime Minister's office, I will be sorry for the Minister, Mr. Vitsa. The document is clear, I am sorry that I cannot print it now, I will print it and send it to the Minutes. It is not the accompanying document, it is the document itself, the body of the document, which is sent by the Office of the Prime Minister and referred to in the specific word ‘broken immigrant’. Why did I submit the document? I have presented it so that it does not become a spit - I am sorry for the expression - as far as anything is concerned. I am not claiming anything or going to describe Alexis Tsipras racist or any of you. I'm just saying stop playing the characterization of your parliamentary interlocutors. He's driving nowhere. Finally, with regard to what Mr Vitsats said on the issue of asylum, the old asylum procedure, I would like to remind colleagues and especially younger colleagues that I made the modern asylum office. Greece, before 2012, before our government, was dealing with the Greek Police, and the asylum rate was 0.001%, the least there was in the civilised world. Nowadays, the new Asylum Service was built, served, operated, was Europe's best Asylum Service at the time, without your help to anything. You voted against everything. I am very grateful to Mr Kouvelli for being part of another party mechanism at the time and he has been here on several occasions. You voted against everything. As many times as I came as Minister of State to the House and asked you for help from the Asylum Service, you have never voted for anything. I have this to say to you: part of the old backlog, Minister, was still part of the Greek Police and we made a huge effort at that time to deal with the backlog. The officer, who handled these things, made a huge loss of certain files and was demored for it. Please look at which officer is and how you have used him as a retired person over your days and what you have done to your day, the person who has nowadays been deported for incapacity in asylum matters where he is now. And since we are having this conversation before, I would like to say this and look at when and why the Secretary-General for Civil Protection has been demobilised, because he has now been demobilised - which you have taken as an officer deported, so he is unable to become a general general, and you have made him a civilian Secretary-General. And the results are there and we know them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u450	Now, are we talking about these people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr. Treasury, and for the time economy. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for at least two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u452	Please don't make me trifle!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u453	Well, criticism of inadequacies, failures, problems, delays, bad conditions from the point of view of respect for human rights, from the point of view of the more decent treatment of immigrants, from the point of view of respect for international law and international human rights conventions as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u454	Let SYRIZA do it to us at least!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u455	Criticism, which invokes existing problems, but is made from the perspective of Greece - a fortress, Europe - a fortress, which behind it conceals the xenophobic, racist and intolerance-thinking rhetoric, you also have the right to do it, but not by invoking the rights and sensitivity for immigrants, because you insult the intelligence of citizens. Please, therefore, very much decide which side you are criticising! And finally, you cannot blame us for having an open door policy, for bringing immigrants around the world into the country and in Europe - and indeed self-interestedly and for doing business about it, as Mrs Vulture said - and on the other hand for blaming the government chairs. We have, therefore, chosen to follow an anti-popular and anti-democratic behaviour, precisely because we are guided by the values of humanism and respect for human rights!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u456	But you did not vote for the anti-racist, but you did not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u457	And of course sensitivity, my dear fellow Member, is not a personal matter. It is a political issue, it is a matter of people's equality culture. And that's the dividing line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u458	Who disagrees with that? We don't disagree!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u459	Also, because there was a reference to me - Mr Varvitsiotis said: 'Why, Mr Xanthi, do you have only two doctors in Moria?' - to tell you: First of all, in Moria, thirty-three people are currently serving total personnel. They are served by two doctors, who have been reinforced with two doctors of the Armed Forces, thirteen nurses, four psychologists, nine social workers, one midwife, one health visitor and three interpreters. Why so few doctors? Why, unfortunately, with this money that was being given and in these circumstances we could not find more! So now we are going to invite you to vote on Thursday on the amendment that we are bringing, which we are doubling the salaries of doctors who will serve specifically in the CSTs, and we also recognise their service time there as a pre-service to take up a post in the CST. Come to vote on it, give more motivation, have a greater response than doctors in our country to meet needs in these difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u460	It's decongested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u461	Obviously, that is the issue and we fully agree. To finish this, firstly, there was no question of public health because of the refugee problem. There is an outbreak of infectious diseases and even forgotten infections worldwide and worldwide. In our country, there have been no epidemics because of the refugee problem, because there has been a reliable, documented plan and on the basis of internationally accepted healthcare guidelines for these people, with the help of the people of the health system and the people who have been hired through the CEDEFOP but also of reliable NGOs and volunteers who have been helping these years. I conclude by saying this: in my view, your own approach, as much as you want to hide it, conceals an incorporation, an refuge in one, in my view, irresponsible populism, in a provocative demagogic behavior, which tries to make political goodwill out of fatigue, from discomfort, from insecurity - I would say - of local societies, which have over the years borne this great burden and, of course, from your obvious and obvious attempt to close the eye to the extreme right in Greece. For right-wing noodles, not for the needs and problems of immigrants and refugees!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u462	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on No 1/8-10-2018 is adjourned on the subject of 'Full opacity and inability to manage European Migration Fund'. I would like to inform you of the call of the Minister of Health, which is for an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure and is concerned with CEDEFOP. So you get to know this too. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-29-S1-commons.u463	With the consent of the House at 22.22 p.m. the sitting is closed for the next Wednesday, 31 October, at 13.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
