ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continuing discussion on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’. The first in the series is the special rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Stamatis. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I have been waited for a double disappointment today - and you will understand why - of the two ministers of the economy, Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Juliarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Papanatsiou is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u4	Yes, it is. I said both of the Ministers. Mrs. Papanatsiou is a State Secretary. There is one particular reason, as the rumours are intensified, that the distance of Mr Tsakalotus from the budget has many causes. The most important thing is that he is angry because Mr. Tsipras from the Thessaloniki Exhibition took the bread out of his mouth, proclaiming the lifting of pension reductions. However, there is also one more important reason why I find that Chakalotos does not want to be charged with the responsibility for implementing the budget, because he knows the continuity and does not want to have the fate of three previous ministers: one is Mr Varoufakis, whom Mr Tsipras has had no problem at all every week calling him an asset and the next week dismissing him, leading him to resignation. The second is Mr. Friend, who, as Mr. Philis has revealed, has been instructed by the Prime Minister to go to the Archbishop and has clashed, and he has been given resignation. The third is Mr. Kotzias. He was sent with many praises. He was obliged to come down from the train after having achieved this "remembrary historical victory" of the Prespecies Agreement. This is how Mr Tsakalotos is kept, who, according to information, calls for the election to be speeded up before it can be shown that this budget cannot be implemented and is a fraud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u5	Is Mr. Chakalotus asking for her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. Chakalotos. That's right, Mr. Comrade. It is guarded so that it does not charge this failure and it is loaded and unloaded, because the Prime Minister is a Killer. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] It is easy for the Prime Minister to do something like this, much more now that everyone realizes that SYRIZA is losing the elections and that the post-election scene in SYRIZA should be calm and without annoying personalities. Let's get into the budget now. I shall begin with what the honourable Members and the dear rapporteur have said, but above all from what Mr Tsipras himself said yesterday in the House. What did Mr. Tsipras tell us? That pensioners - he says - have been smiling since today. Why are they smiling? They're smiling because they won't remove what they had legally ordered to remove. I ask: If anyone, ladies and gentlemen, threatens to beat you, rot you on the ground and then regret it and tells you "I won't do it", do you owe him gratitude and obligation? You're gonna be happy because he's withdrawing his threat? That's what happened to retired people. Since you have voted twice in this House to reduce pensions, after you have led to a situation of intense mental suffering for pensioners with this threat, you are coming at the last minute and the Prime Minister is also seeing happy pensioners. I leave that to the crisis and yours and those who are attending the meeting. But he did not tell us what would happen to the new pensioners. The ones who came out and will be retired after May 2016, where the lotus is growing on their heads and incomes. He didn't say anything about them at all. Could any of you tell us what's going to happen? The third is that Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Mitsotakis were angry about what Mr. Mitsotakis said, that the reduction in pensions was made in the context of a transaction. What did he say? What the vast majority of the Greek people say. Haven't you heard of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u7	It's an official position, that is, again. Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u8	In fact, he was upset by saying: 'Do you dare say such words?' Some colleagues here reminded you of what Mr. Tsipras said against Mr. Papandreou in 2011. Now I will remind you what Mr Tsipras said on 20 February 2012, on the eve of the Eurogroup convening. He said to the journalists, "There are some Greeks who are not so Greek and they are the rulers". Do you have anything to say now? In the end, I did not understand Mr Chakalotus' reaction. Why is Mr. Tsakalotos protesting and saying it was the most reason he heard? Mr. Mitsotakis has been commended. Mr. Tsakalotos and other two hundred members of your party are not what in 2008 signed a declaration and called on the Greek Government to name it, to give it all to the Skopje and said that these are pitiful things and trivial things? So Mr. Mitsotakis has given Mr. Tsakalotos credit. He gave the 'cots', in your opinion, nothing and he collected a reduction in pensions. So why are you protesting? Does it say anything about you or most of you the theme of Macedonia? If he doesn't say anything, then why are you protesting? The Prime Minister also threatened to go to the European Party to advise us, to make us 'da'. This reminded me of Mr Papadioulis, who preceded Mr Tsipras - I do not know whether this is a culture that exists in SYRIZA - and smashed his fellow MEPs to the European Parliament, those who had gone to the palliative gathering for Macedonia that had taken place in Thessaloniki. Now Mr. Tsipras takes over to do it, it seems. Bravo! Hi, I'm glad to see him. You know what these guys are called. The second issue he raised was 'the question of the tie'. But, well, didn't one of you tell him not to tell him? Mr. Tsipras came here the other day and said, "You have become a rapist, Mr. Mitsotakis, with the "the tie movement", as you baptized it. Did you see? There is nothing going on.’ Didn't someone let him know on page 32 and 33 the budget? There it clearly says that the law of Mr. Katrugalos of 2016 has failed miserably. It has led to the closure of professions, has led to the closure of activities, so that unemployment and the insurance funds are also damaged by taxation. That's why they call him back. But that's what we've been talking about, isn't it? Aren't we saying these unbearable measures can't be tolerated by professionals? And Mr. Tsipras came yesterday and was proud of what we've been asking for almost three years. Didn't anyone find out to say, "Don't you, brother, don't say that!" This is where you licked! He said one more thing. To reduce corporate taxation. This is the definition of political fraud. Business tax in the Samara government had gone to 26%. You just got to power, took her to 29%. In 2017 you yourself passed a law saying that from 1-12019 taxation will return to 26%. And you come with this budget, and what are you doing? You're abolishing that law. They were wrong to expect those who waited for this reduction and bring it back to 28%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do I have two more minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u9	That was a warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u10	I'll try to be shorter. What is this budget, ladies and gentlemen? Is he a developmentist? What kind of development is this budget, where investments go downwards? According to ELSTAT's data, in the third quarter of this year the investment activity is reduced by 23.2% compared to the third quarter of 2017, which is the corresponding quarter of 2017, which everyone now knows the great success of the investments. And I ask: do you have a big investment, important? You have one to tell us which you have gone through, have you? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are presenting data from the implementation of our own investment movements. And how can investment be made? How can people proceed to investment when they have an uncertain regime before them and when the government is responsible for the country has already entered a pre-election period? Is there a reasonable man who thinks this is going on? And to close, under the pressure of time, what is this budget, to agree on something? He's classic, I agree. Expresses your class hatred against the middle class, which you have literally crushed, and you have confessed it by mouth and Tsipras and Tsakalotou. Only you do nothing - even at the last minute - to ease this violent attack. However, the budget is also a budget for the redistribution of poverty. That is not all I have said. Your colleagues have said so. You've known that since last year. It's a budget for redistributing poverty. Since there is no growth, since there is no revenue, what you give as dividends do you know what comes from? From undoing other poor people. You try to give targeted groups poorer by taking from the poor. It is a budget, therefore, for redistribution of poverty. And thirdly, it is a budget of an unscrupulous unprecedented social automation. It aims to create the image that the Macao Archbishop Christodoulos had said in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u11	Oh, that's great.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u12	"Dead the neighbor's goat!". And to those who do not have a dividend, you give the satisfaction of the neighbor's gracious goat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u13	Apart from the goat, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question, particularly to the Finance Ministers: are you the ones responsible for dying on the goat, but if the goat dies, who will drop the milk, so that you can give this fat help to the undignified? Haven't you thought of that? You've probably thought about it and realised that your time is up. That is what Mr Tsakalotos is aware of, which is why he is clearly absent from the Chamber, from the work. And it even gave me a special impression that yesterday he did not sit with the Prime Minister, he was the third in a row. And the older ones of you are very well aware of the signology of positioning. Back in Moscow or Beijing, they were separated from the place they were taken by officials in the parade square.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u15	The answer is that the goat doesn't eat turmoil.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u16	Good. They're only two hundred speakers. If the two hundred make over the four minutes that Mr. Stamatis has done, it's eight hundred minutes. Isn't that arithmetic I'm using? All the goats will die, Mr. Stamatis. Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u17	First of all, I would like to inform the House that it cannot be all day long and the three ministers of the Ministry of Finance in the Chamber. I mean, I'm really surprised. All budgets or all bills are the same. Mr Chakalotos will be here this afternoon, and he will give you the answers you want, but from there you will know that the financial staff are expressed in a single position and in terms of this budget, as will all the Members and ministers of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u18	All right, it was yesterday Mr. Tsakalotos here and Mr. Tsipras who is in a position against Mr. Tsakalotou. Mr Pavlides, SYRIZA's special rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stamatis is taking out new skills every time. I would suggest to him after the end of his political life that he should deal with political scenarios of the "Land" and become a political Foscolos. He probably has a great ability to write scenarios for the political scene in the country and the positions of the ministers and their attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u20	However, Gabras is currently looking for an actress to play Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u21	Good. So you can start a second career as a political Foscolos, Mr. Stamatis. To be serious, however, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that exiting from the memoranda is a political act which had no binding date nor was an unequivocal formal process. It was a political act which was the product of concrete results of political planning, which concerned objectives, timetables and specific conditions. In 2015, therefore, following the resolution of the third programme and the political compromise in the summer of 2015, there was a political adaptation of our planning on the basis of new data and we were led to elections in September 2015 with a very specific framework: firstly, implementation of commitments, financial reliability, reforms - and positive and problematic arrangements - that were imposed, a parallel social programme, a fair growth and a work policy. The 2015 negotiations gave us an increase in the financial area. Let me remind you that the surpluses of your four-year period were 16.2% of GDP, 3% of GDP, 4.5%, and we brought surpluses from 16.2% to 5.2% of GDP, 20 billion euros, a decrease of 11% of GDP from 29.2 billion euro to just 9.3 billion euro, a large budget area which could be fully targeted at growth and social policy. Also, the 2015 negotiation brought the average maturity of the loan obligations from 17 years to 32.5 years at 1% interest rates instead of 4% and there was a minine debt relief near 40 billion euros, according to Hugo Dixon's study. The political outcome of this negotiation and this dynamic and the terms of the referendum's special gravity is precisely the success of the 2015 negotiation. It came in 2016 with rating closures, also in 2017 with rating closures, which led to the exit from the excessive deficit process and reached 2018 with the closure of all ratings - to your great disappointment - with debt restructuring, medium-term debt sustainability, with the exit from the memoranda, with 15% cut in the country's credit costs, with a growth clause, with a 24 billion euros security and liquidity pillow, with the recovery of the economy, with stable characteristics of several quarters now, with increased degrees of freedom in the policy mix that we can implement and with a social return on the budget over the surpluses. You of all these political and economic sizes of the situation, what exactly did you see? Four scripts, four categories and four objections. The first is the one Mr Mitsotakis has said, and several other colleagues of yours, that we are the worst government in all times. And you dare say it, who brought a country into economic bankruptcy and warfare. The 25% reduction in GDP, the levels of unemployment and a thousand two others, are evidenced by this. And if you do not agree on that, I would remind you of some of the elements that I will say below. You see the figures on GDP reduction, unemployment, poverty, youth migration, poverty, social cohesion, and yet you have the arrogance and the courage to talk about 'the worst government of all time'. Obviously, you didn't get the record. Instead of the wage cut came the debt cutter, instead of shutting down the rating, all ratings closed, instead of a credit line with new measures, there was a clear exit from the memoranda, instead of elections every week, we spend the last year of our government service, instead of measures without countermeasures, and they were countermeasures, with the abolition of measures, and indeed measures included in the medium-term framework 2019-2022, and this shows the dynamic of this exit, that there is the possibility with the economic sizes that the economy has brought you to Parliament with political actions and "legislative" measures, which were part of the medium-term framework. Instead of a fourth memorandum, we brought a memorandum with society, recognising our political debt to society and the Greek people. Secondly, with the 'worst government of all time': What have you done? After three, four years you returned to 2014. I think that is what Mr Metatakis said in the committee. Let me remind you of what happened in 2014: a report by the IMF and the Eurogroup in May 2014, the initial programme - I read it self-contained - provided for sixteen quarterly reviews, of which only five were completed with significant delays from March 2012 to June 2014. The targets were fourteen times below forecasts. The gap between the 0.4% primary surplus achieved by the government in relation to the 1.5% that had been put in place brought demands for EUR 2 billion for new measures, because a budgetary gap of 1.1% of GDP was created. The institutions also asked for about EUR 3 billion more to catch the 2015 target, which reminds you that it was 3% of the primary surplus, so 5 billion measures and if we count on the IMF's forecasts and different estimates, which asked for another 4 billion euros, the account goes to 9 billion. Also, in the mid-term fiscal strategy for 2012-2015, L.39852011 is clear: The government's political mix has been targeting from 2014 onwards the creation of primary surpluses of over 6% of GDP. Thirdly, Mr Stavrou said so: what did you do? In enhanced supervision you put us in. Four reviews instead of two. Four quarters a year instead of two semesters a year. He's absolutely right. What was that for? We have obviously received an economy and a society with an exorbitant debt, with an excessive debt, a global debt ratio of 180%. And you blame us on this enhanced surveillance, when the other countries that came out of the memorials and you show them as an example with the finger, as Portugal came out with 130% of the memoranda, Cyprus with 100% and the average debt ratio to GDP in Europe is 83%. So you have this great political anesthesia and irresponsibility and this political courage to blame us for the fact that the country has come out with enhanced supervision and not with the supervisory regime that other countries have taken on board. Let's come to the 2019 budget. It is a budget expansive and non-restrictive budgetary budget, without new substantial austerity measures, with a change in the budget mix, with 1% of GDP measures, with social dividends, with measures of a permanent nature and aimed at strengthening growth, labour, private consumption, social support, islands by applying transport income to all islands as from 1 January 2019, in balanced and fair growth. And yet you deny that there was an exit from the memoirs. I want to remind you of the official figures from the Ministry of Finance from the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 accounts. The 2009 report recorded a primary deficit of EUR 20 billion, of 2010 EUR 8 billion, of 2011 EUR 12 billion, of 2012 EUR 4 billion, of 2013 EUR 5.7 billion, of 2014, a small surplus of EUR 600 million. Regarding deposits, in 2010 EUR 209 billion, in 2014 EUR 133 billion, EUR 76 billion less. Unemployment in the first quarter of 2014 27.3%. Today unemployment is 18.6%, almost nine points below. And you want to tell us now that in 2014, with these elements I mentioned, you took off the economy, you came out of the memorials, and we came, with this information, with the implementation of the budgetary targets, with over-performance of surpluses, with growth, with a strong reduction in unemployment, but we did not achieve a net exit from the memoranda and we still continue the same Memorandum Policy. If you think this is a process that you can defend in society, you can defend it as much as you want. I would like to remind you that only the abolition of the personal difference measure, only this 'know-legislation', will keep EUR 10 billion in the Greek household from the main pensions and EUR 1 billion from the subsidiary. Overall in the four years 2019-2022, 11 billion euros will be retained in the Greek household, which are resources that are fully targeted at private consumption and will give a strong growth in GDP volume. We have therefore brought an economy with real budgetary room for recovery. I shall refer to your fourth argument to close this 'apology' of the four points. Election benefits. You're saying we're making election benefits. "Elections come and you will give election mirrors to the natives." Three years we are now constantly bringing a social dividend at the end of the year, when we see what the Greek economy is performing. Any margin outside the budgetary objectives, we render it under certain conditions of social efficiency - in return for society. In fact, this year not only with a policy of benefits, but with strong lasting measures that will remain in the economy. You blame us for excruciating, election measures and election mirrors, when in March 2014 you brought a social dividend - the god will do it - EUR 450 million. I don't know what you saw. As soon as it dawned in 2014, shortly after the celebrations and Halloween, you realized that you had a strong social sensitivity and said, "We have money, about half a billion, to share it in society, because it is suffering." This two months before the European elections. And we arrive at the end of the year to see how responsible you are and are five times below the budgetary objective. The program was completely derailed. I'm talking about knowing who's talking about benefits and election promises or not. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say clearly that from now on, coming out of the memorial tombs in a clear political landscape, there will be two distinct political plans, the New Democracy plan, the Pinochet insurance project, the return - which you say with great enthusiasm and pride that we will return to the times of the memoranda - in the future. You say “we will keep the Memorandum of Obligation of 2011, 2012 and 2013 for five departures to one intake” and you will do well, because this is your political planning, subordinated public services, subordinated health, subordinated education, health privatisation, privatisation, privatization of education, privatization of social benefits, because this is your overall political planning, with both benefits integrated into the social solidarity allowance, social benefits, with a weak integration to treat only extreme poverty phenomena. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So we come with another political plan to implement the commitments of our government programme since September 2015, with the pullover of austerity, recession and poverty in society, with fair growth policies, with labour policies, labour subsidies, unemployment measures, strong social policy, justice and not political impunity. Here you do not want to be the field of controversy in the next few years. The words and actions of everyone will be judged here, not the ball on the platform. Every time there is a pure political field with specific economic sizes and specific social performance, the montazier, the morning "Austrias" and the "Protosaltes" on the channels, the Madour monastery will come out, you will remember Madouros, lawlessness, university asylum, "Carnish" you will remember a sale, hysteresia of Mr. Georgiadis. The worst, the culmination of all this tragedy is the placement of the Chief of Police Response from this Step yesterday - the other day, which spoke about the sale of Macedonia in exchange for pensions. In fact, this political product of this betrayal comes to you to vote for it yourself. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that because you have brought the country to such levels of war and bankruptcy, we do not want to save us any more. Please don't save us any more! While you've saved, you've saved! We are grateful to you! Hold where you are. We are giving our own examinations by getting the country out of the memoranda, building a social state with a stable economic recovery that needs to be seen - and it sees the whole society and not the few. We're turning back on the heavy past of the eight years that passed. We look forward to leaving you alone in your political melancholy and political disdain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u22	We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr Balauras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to allow me to get away from the budget, unfortunately following my colleagues and not just the Chief of Staff. I will speak on the matter raised yesterday by the Prime Minister. Here there are people who have knowledge of history and especially of parliamentary history. Even in the major conflicts of Constantine Karamanlis - Andreas Papandreou, never said such things. It is right to say that in this House - the House - I mean - there were such cases when they were in the civil war, Mr Stamatis. Then there really were voices that said they were another left, that is, they were traitors, partners of foreign forces and whatever else they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u24	What Mr. Tsipras said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u25	Who did Mr. Tsipras say? He didn't say any of what you said. You have actually read something trivial, as I understand it. I would remind you, Mr Stamatis, that at that time there was Constantine Mitsotakis in the House in the civil war. He was one of the fastest. If you run and read the minutes, you'll see what was written at the time. I'm embarrassed and I'm sorry. But I sympathize with you for being in the way you are. I am particularly addressing the liberals of the New Democracy, whom I mention, Mr Dendia, Mr Staikora, who I see in front of me, Mr Javara, whom we are short-sighted. I challenge them. What do they have to say about this thing? One last, since I saw KINAL's colleague. Yesterday Mr Tsakalotos challenged Mr Scandalides, who made a 'balanced' - let me say it in the best version - 'what is against Parliament, one another'. One is Tsipras. What did Tsipras say? He talked about the budget, about the big issues of the Greek economy, and the Chief of Staff Response attacked, Mr. Stamatis. And I'm so sorry because you justified him, you'd better not talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u26	It's written!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Mitsotakis copied Golden Dawn. Here and out of here, Golden Dawn has this line, that Tsipras and SYRIZA's government sold the Macedonian to get the pensions! We have to be a little embarrassed! Let's go to the second off-budget. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of the take news and even mentioned my example. I will not deal with this any more, but I would like to stress that there are Members here - I do not want to name them - who immediately after the shameful publication of the newspaper 'TAS' against me, took a convicted position. And that's not all. I wonder how the youth of the New Democracy has made an announcement against me. Why? Anyone wondering? Some, like Trinidad Mitafidis, Nikos Manios, we have a story. She comes out undermining her, blacking her, undermining the moral example of these people. They do it all the time. It has been done twice, and indeed in a coordinated manner. I now come to the subject we are talking about, Mr President. The New Democracy thought it would scare society. Remember what he said about the cutter. "The cutter will come, you will lose that, you will lose the other"! The cutter's not here. He was talking about the collapse of both the first and second evaluations. They were basically saying 'West, Shoeble'. Mr. Stamatis, do you remember the old 'wasta, Rommel' that the black marketers were saying? I'm not telling you black-tailers to God! But you said that there is a fourth Memorandum. You MPs, executives, even your Chief say there is no fourth memorandum. Are you going to say some things we can talk about at some point? How do you start talking about a fourth memorial when you see all the moves? How would there be a fourth memorial once this course is in place? Shall we comment on the course? Let's get him out of here. Is there a course outside of the memorial? Clearly there is. Within a framework like other states? Yes, of course. For pensions you were running in Berlin, Brussels and so forth, but I will leave this matter. I'll say your line. Mr. Mitsotakis a month after his election as Head of the New Democracy gave an interview with Mrs. Kosoni. Mrs Kosonias asked him: 'Mr President, you say yes to the reduction of subsidiary pensions.' And he's answering. Note what he answers, Mr. Stopatis, because you like to bring Practically: "I didn't hide it. That's why I'm telling you that I'm speaking the language of the truth. And I want to do the work of truth tomorrow. Easy solutions do not exist." Your Chief told us that we were selling the Macedonian to get pensions! He's leading the pension cut! Now let's go to what the budget brings. Many colleagues and rapporteurs have said that it is expansive. It opens the way to growth. It strengthens the social protection index, spends - and I will table a document on the Minutes - social benefits, the Public Investment Programme. You're talking. But how do you talk about the Public Investment Programme when we have a programme of 6,700,000, 000 to implement this programme? And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a table here which I will also present in the Minutes, Mr Staikora. It is the largest amount since 2009, before the crisis. I'll read the numbers. It's 9.588m euros, isn't it? We go to 2010 and we see the numbers that exist and they are the largest numbers that exist since 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u28	You say 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u30	How much is it so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u31	I told you, Mr Stakoura, that the same number is in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Stavura, please. You had the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u33	It's 1.5 billion down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u34	The absorption? But don't confuse them because you're doing this. You're talking about predictions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u35	No prediction. Execution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u36	You're talking about predictions, Mr. Stakoura, and the result...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u37	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u38	That is what you did yesterday in your speech. Yesterday you said 'we did this'. You didn't do that. They were predictions that you would do that. You predicted a growth of 4% and we went to a recession of 9%. That was the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u39	You make provision for 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm so sorry. I just want to say what's due...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u41	The best example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u42	To stop that tale of overtaxation. It is, first of all, a reduction in unemployment. When unemployment is reduced, we pay contributions, there is more consumption. Just stuff. Secondly, the low forecasts of the institutions for non-measurable measures. What are the parametric measures? It's that we got a lot of things from taxation. Two examples: Tax revenue increased by 2.33%, i.e. 624 million. What's that for? It is firstly because of VDI, that is to say, the disclosure of income and secondly because of the large VAT collection of 5.2%, i.e. 780 million. And I want to tell you, Mr. Stamatis, that the goat no longer chews a riot. He doesn't chew or chew anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u43	Mr Balaura, please put a perfect one. You're the first one, and there's a hundred other ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u44	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I mean to say and claim that you have destroyed livestock, namely goats, sheep and cows this decade. You literally destroyed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u45	After the goats, the cows are there. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u46	Only one phrase, Mr President. You cut me three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u47	All the animal kingdom here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u48	The Chief told you in his speech that Tsipras counts the days he will still be Prime Minister. He said it was a thousand four hundred seventeen days. I haven't counted them. I believe him. The only thing I believe is what he said. I have the impression that he's always sitting and teaching the margarita. He'll have destroyed tons of daisies to see if Tsipras falls. From the beginning the Prime Minister came out, he raised the issue of elections. A thousand times. And it's a case study at the University of Oslo that a Chief of Staff of the Anti-Population Officer keeps saying, like, a thousand times, a thousand four hundred days and asking for elections. The daisies are gone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u49	The daisy's over, it's over! Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, nineteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 2nd Municipal School of Malia of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. This government's balance sheet is sad. It is linked to the country's commitment to high primary surpluses by 2060, to an unnecessarily illegitimate memorandum, to taxes without end and without reasonable measures of EUR 9.5 billion. The Prime Minister said a few days ago that we lived in our own words. If that is the case, then this government dwells and lives in a lie. Because what he said and what he says and what he promised Greek citizens was and is lies. At the domestic audience some colleagues are being hit on the primary surpluses that are not based on growth, but on overtaxation. They obviously did not hear Mr Tsakalotos the other day, who from New York said that it was not a great strategy to overcompensate. The budget submitted by the government is not the first Memorandum of Understanding budget. The first Memorandum of Understanding would have been the one that would have been tabled in 2015, unless Mr Tsipras and the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015 were involved, which led to an unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has turned it into a Memorandum with primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060 and the public property in the hands of lenders for nine nine years. The government imposed twenty-nine new taxes, and now it is trying to reverse the unfavourable for the same climate, giving back crumbs in front of what it took from every citizen. I submit in the Minutes the list of twenty-nine taxes imposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Our President, Mr Mitsotakis, and our rapporteur, Mr Christos Stagiras, presented them yesterday. I'll testify to them, too. And we'll keep telling them until you stop lying that you're supposedly not imposing taxes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A first revealing example is the one with HPAI, the one you would have abolished, but you finally increased it by reducing the tax rate and exceeding the tax rates in the supplementary tax. You're coming now and you're talking about reducing HISBIA. But this reduction does not concern all Greeks. You exclude the middle class from this reduction. In essence, the financial cost of this relief measure is only EUR 262 million and is reflected in the budget for a reduction in property taxes from EUR 3,063 billion this year to EUR 2,801 billion in 2019. This means that the reduction that some - and not all - will see in HISY will be minimal. The New Democracy will go ahead with a 30% reduction that will apply horizontally to all Greeks. A second revealing example is the 1% reduction on an annual basis in the corporate tax rate. You raised him from 26% to 29%. And you feel proud of this 1%, when you strangle the real economy and businesses. And with the amendment you have brought to the House some time ago, you estimate that the tax rate for businesses will be 26% in 2021. So you're telling us that in 2021 we're going to reach the 26% tax rate that was in force in 2014. We are therefore talking for seven years lost. The solution here is one. It is the New Democracy's proposal to reduce the rate of corporate taxation to 20%. The last budget submitted by the Government remains faithful to the logic of overtaxation. Although in the medium term tax revenues were estimated at EUR 50.1 billion, the budget revenue from taxes is increased to EUR 51.1 billion. At the same time, the Public Investment Programme is shrinking by EUR 550 million. It calculates the government's growth of 2.5% last year when it had done calculations and proved to be unmatched in reality. Let me remind you that you anticipated an increase in investment by 11.4%. The increase, however, recorded, was only 0.8%. The same was true of the forecasts for the increase in private consumption. It is also a given fact that the government has nothing at all to say about AIA, which reveals that in September the taxpayers left unpaid taxes corresponding to HPAI and income tax totalling EUR 513 million. Within a month, five hundred thousand citizens were added to the list of those having tax debts. Do you not realize that the people's tax capacity has been exhausted? Is the picture of 4.3 million people with tax debts who have suffered or are in danger of being seized and auctioned, is the image of a country that came out of the memoranda? Only during the country's governance period by the SYRIZA - ANEL government's tax debts have increased by 45% and more than 103 billion euros have been exceeded, and the increase is up to 182 billion euros. These are all elements that are not questioned. Nor is the report by the Citizens' Counsel report stating that in the period of governance SYRIZA - ANEL 4.85 million bank seizures have been made, while the citizens who have had forced recovery measures amount to one million and forty-three thousand three hundred and fifty-six. I close with the issue of revenue from the fight against tax evasion, speaking, as always, with data and figures. The government that promised revenues of EUR 3 billion from tax evasion and, in fact, within six months, has been able to collect EUR 115 million in four years. From the list of Lagard, which you officially registered, the amounts collected by April 2018 are only EUR 48.4 million. From the Borgians list, which you had made a flag, you received 17.2 million euros. Finally, with regard to foreign transfers, total receipts amount to EUR 48.7 million. Not to mention the government's lack of will to smuggle smuggling and tax evasion into fuels, which I have also spoken in detail and with evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is coming. It's over in people's consciousness. The New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is aimed at all Greek citizens inclusive. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President. To all of these, we are making our programme commitments for tomorrow. At the core of our programme is the reduction of taxes and social security contributions, the relaunching of the economy by creating a friendly framework for attracting investment. Greece closes this sad cycle of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. She closes her accounts with yesterday and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Besyropoulou, for keeping time. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC, on the occasion of this debate, wants to address the working class of our country and to make known, as wide as the mechanisms of the system allow, its proposal for what is tormenting it, the conditions to conquer the life that it deserves. The first suffering is unemployment. The JRC says: Everyone's right to work can be satisfied if production is designed and developed to satisfy the growing, modern needs of the people and not the profit. A prerequisite for this is for factories, shipyards, businesses, boats, transport, services and other infrastructure to be in the hands of the people. Those who present this necessity as Monday's presence want to chain the people in this form of organization of the economy, which deprives the right to work, which accumulates from one profits and the misery of the working class. Really, what is your unemployment policy? You say growth will reduce unemployment, give jobs. But the growth is made by business groups and they do not do it to give jobs, but for quick and secure profitability with the greatest possible exploitation. What are you doing and doing to protect the unemployed and their families? As soon as 10% is subsidized with a penniless allowance of up to EUR 360 for a year. And that, gentlemen, is a disgrace! The allocation for unemployment benefits is reduced through the budget by EUR 63 million, while the surplus of GDP will reach 518 million. In the name of unemployment, however, you are completely subsidising business groups with various 'active employment' programmes, as you call them, with a free-of-working workforce, in various forms, such as practical exercise, acquisition of experience, retraining, apprenticeships, other projects that recycle and do not guarantee work for the unemployed. These business support and unemployment recycling programmes are increasing from EUR 360 million to EUR 551 million. You voted for another provision to finance the so-called 'employers' contributions' for young workers under the age of twenty-five years. The working class has been experimented with all the political forces of the bourgeoisie. However, her condition is getting worse in all aspects of her life. Should we refer to your lower wage policy, collective agreements, working relationships? You are shaping and supporting the friendly environment for investors - capital, that is - with hell for workers. Work jungle with the management right to determine the life of the working family, with hunger wages, with unpaid work. When at work and when in unemployment. You have given everything that the business groups have claimed in order to further reduce the price of the labour force, to end with the passions of the past, as they characterize the conquests of the working class, the collective bargaining for the minimum wage, the reintroduction of collective agreements and others that prevent the increase of their profits. That is why the working class needs to finally decide to end with misery and fight for its right to work, its right to life, supporting the JRC's ruptured and overthrowing line. All access to health can be achieved if it is only public and free to provide health services, if all types of business are abolished. Then every discovery of science, technology, research will be at the service of man, such as, of course, the proper drugs that will not be expensive goods, because they will not be produced for profit. You support health marketing, so that you deprive everyone of access to, and the medicine for the effective treatment of diseases. This must not be tolerated by the people! As far as access for all to public, free education is concerned, the JRC has submitted its proposal to the people, a proposal necessary to combat immortality, in order to gain knowledge, in order to develop human science and technology. The system you're serving, it wants ignorance, fake training, it wants exploitation. It raises ever greater barriers to the education of working-class children. Childcare, as soon as it is born, will be a matter of the expanded infrastructure and services that will be developed balancedly throughout the country, with children's stations, with creative employment and with whole education. You create pediatric services, and that's not for all the children. Care for the elderly will also be a case of extended services to meet their needs. In the system that you serve, consider them weight and expressions "Don't die already!", you show the hideous face of this barbaric system. With active ageing, you want to cut off even those hunger pensions that have been won by the workers or left by those who have conquered. For free time, this form of organization of the economy, which man will not exploit another man, can reduce daily working time and increase free time, which will be exploited for culture, sport, holidays, recreation and any other activity he chooses. The system you serve deprives free time and as much time as it is conquered as free becomes a field of profit with services extremely expensive. Those and others that do not allow us time to say, which torture the working people's family and want to deal with them, must become a matter of its struggle. You're saying this isn't happening. Yes, that's not because the system you're supporting is the law of profit. Because this system that accumulates profits also accumulates misery for the people. This system meets its plans with wars, "bloods" the people, changes borders with people's blood. The working class knows that without it, it does not turn around and that it can be without bosses. In this perspective it can find definitive solutions, or any need for it will be for its second presence. As long as the people are not organized everywhere to bring up - so that consensus, subjection to the designs of monopolistic and business groups and their political staff will prevail, with an excess of problems for themselves. Under this system, the labour movement, in order to get some conquests for terms of payment, living, retirement and others, requires certain conditions, such as the reorganisation of the labour movement, the massification of the trade unions and, above all, the content of its struggle, which must be in front of modern needs. It is necessary to strengthen this line, expressed by the pan-laboratory fighting front, to weaken government and employers' union and to raise the level of class struggle, by strengthening its alliances and, above all, by strengthening the JRC, the working class party. On this road we call on the working class, the partisans of work, the self-employed, the poor farms and, in particular, the young and young people, to strengthen the JRC everywhere and to join it, regardless of whether they do not agree on everything. Organize the laboro-people's counterattack. We invite all workers and the people to the rally on 18 December against the anti-grass budget. On this road we will give all our powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u54	We are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, the last budget, the latest Memorandum of the longest-lived Memorandum Government. A budget in which Greece's football tax is recorded among all OECD countries is recorded the increase in public debt in 2018 by EUR 3 billion, the reduction in pensions by EUR 200 million is recorded and, for example, the reduction of the heating oil subsidy from EUR 206 million in 2014 is recorded to the only EUR 55 million that is now. There is no record, however, of any intervention to hit the smuggling of fuel. There is no record of any positive intervention to create new investments and create jobs in this place. It is not recorded that specifically for fuel smuggling in 2014 four thousand controls had been carried out and in 2018 they have only just been eight hundred. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to see and assess the presence of Prime Minister Tsipras over the years. Mr. Tsipras is an age-old politician, but he is deeply, desperately old politically. He is a Prime Minister who expresses the most decadent moments of post-population. And because some things are not only about Mr. Tsipras, but also about the whole groups and concern us personally, here is the post of your party newspaper, "AYIS" on 30-9-2011: "Alexis Tsipras: The divestment of public property means the ultimate betrayal. Warning to the 'plasticologists' who are preparing to take 'cut-down country'. That's what Mr. Tsipras says in his statements. And it continues with suspicion, suspicion, press information that something would happen with public property: “What Minister or Prime Minister can sign it in such a plan to divest public wealth? If such a choice does not mean the last betrayal for the Greek people and for the homeland, what is betrayal?” I present in the Minutes the newspaper 'HAY' published. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is now required because it concerns all of us who were standing and patriotic in the difficult years of the first memorandum, in 2011 and we were not gay, to go to the sweet hug of Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, and to have ministerial chairs and it also concerns all these simple fighters in each village and every café that defended the great democratic party. We are now awaiting the end of Mr Tsipras' prime term of office, even for reasons of history, an apology. However, for Mr Tsipras, I must say that there is another major ethical issue. A week ago I tabled a timely question to the Prime Minister. He must respond to what he knew about the greatest scandal in the last few years, the DEPA scandal and today he is revealing, after the awkward deafening silence of the Grand Maximos, that Mr.Petsitis, a schoolmate and Mr. Pappas was not just next to a minister but was in the basements of the Great Maximos. So, the Prime Minister, the Maximos Mansion, has to answer whether the complaints of the SYRIZA party official and former CEO of Mr. Kitsakou's DEPA that he was taking orders from Mr. Petsiti and instructed him whether they are true or not. And, of course, justice has a duty to always enrich the documents with the newest ones in relation to such matters. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we have a government that seems to be enclosed in a political institution of arrogance, complacency, division and isolation from the international environment. Europe beside us is beating and burning. Macron's yellow vest, Merkel's AFD, May's Brexit, Salvini in Italy, everything breaks down. We are desperately on our own, and we are, unfortunately, and from the economic point of view, totally impervious. Where is the great debate that should have begun, with the responsibility of the current government for what Europe's tomorrow and tomorrow is. Uncomfortable, zero. There's absolutely nothing. We are only three years before the celebration of the 200 years of the newest Greek state and what do we see? A government that regulates business interests and that at the level of society with the various benefits has led people to despair, collective depression and resignation that something can be done in this place, to resignation from hope to tomorrow. What is this budget we are discussing? I would like to address SYRIZA's colleagues. Do you remember a word, the famous 'olistic' programme? What was your holistic program? It was supposed to be the medium-term program for the country to go after the memorials. I've never heard you mention it. Is there any correlation between this budget and allegedly this vision that you have deceived the citizens that you have? We know one thing: The main institutions of the state, including the Revision of the Constitution, became a tool. Working on justice with the largest number of committees of inquiry and pre-review that any government has ever organised in recent years. Is there an answer? Is there a positive way out? The answer is, yes, there is. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, we in the Senate Hall presented our binding political proposal on the biggest problem in the country, which is the demographic problem. Every year Greece becomes thirty-five thousand Greeks smaller. We're reducing by thirty-five thousand. It is the issue of homeland and we propose four very specific measures. Firstly, in the first three years of the new professional 0% tax and zero social security contributions for pensions. Secondly, for every 100 euros, when a professional hires a young man, he will be taxed at 150 euros to have an incentive to hire young people. Third measure. All day long primary schools, nursery and kindergartens, so that the mother who gives birth to the child knows that by 12 years he has ensured and does not need grandma. Finally, fourth measure, a reduction for two years, either tax or HISPIA, for each new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u55	End of story, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u56	Because we live in the opportunism of SYRIZA and New Democracy, we say that in the next elections we want the Change Movement to take the regulatory role so that we have a political change and a change in the country's policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister for Education, Mr. Fotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is different from the previous ones. We are now in the memorial era, we have been relieved of the comitology, the country can take some breath, government policy can be shaped with better clarity and the government's ideological identity can be demonstrated. This is reflected in the 2019 budget. Of course, there are three key challenges. The first is to ensure the economic and fiscal stability of the country, not to turn back. This is followed by strengthening work and the social state, with an emphasis on health and education, which were so affected during the memorandum period. The third is the development of a new productive model. A new development model based on the intensification of knowledge and the formation of the knowledge society and the knowledge economy, the knowledge of its own self-worth, and education based on broadens the spiritual horizons of society and strengthens it through learning and education. Knowledge and innovation, mainly resulting from scientific research and can significantly influence the country's development effort. This is a model, that of the knowledge economy, which promotes healthy and innovative entrepreneurship, in contrast to past state-run and parasitic practices. All three of the above challenges have references to the budget. I will focus on Tuesday, which concerns research and the building of the knowledge economy. In times of crisis, research is the easy target for cutbacks. However, in the 2019 budget, the growth of the previous three years in terms of public spending continues, what has been done since the beginning of this governance. The Regular Budget of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology from 64 million in 2015 is growing to 121 million in 2019 and the Public Investment Programme from 141 million in 2015 is being shaped to 244 million in 2019. A similar course is followed by expenditure on research and development in the country with a growing trend, with historical records both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of GDP. According to data from the National Documentation Centre, in conditions of deep economic crisis, spending on research from 1,48 billion in 2014, amounting to 0.8% of GDP, exceeds 2 billion in 2017, reaching 1.14% of GDP and consistently approaching the European average. I would like to submit a document with this information from the National Documentation Centre in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If we compare the above with the years of prosperity and of fat cows, we will clearly see the completely different concept of today. In 2003, one of these years, total investment for research was only EUR 984 million. One more thing. It is noteworthy that the private sector has made a significant contribution to increasing spending on research and development over the last three years and even from its own resources. Thus, private sector investments in research increased in 2017 by more than 30%, corresponding to those in the public sector. This can be interpreted as a practice of private sector confidence in the economic prospects opened for the country. Now, a crucial contribution to these increases was made by the influx of additional funds of 240m euros, for the three years 2017-2019 by the Hellenic Research and Innovation Foundation, an institution that is an independent institution for research and aims to strengthen young researchers and free research conducted in the Greek AEIs and research centres of the country. It should be noted, in fact, that in 2019 additional funds amounting to EUR 60 million have been provided for in the budget, bringing the total amount up to EUR 300 million, of which 120 million come from the public investment programme and the rest from the European Investment Bank. Well, however, the numbers here must also answer the question: what does all these figures mean? What impact do they have on society? The answer can be given through a brief assessment of results and actions carried out. At the forefront of these actions is the great theme of supporting the country's most valuable resource, namely support for the excellent human resources, the young scientists and researchers. They are the scientists and engineers from public universities, they are sought internationally and are an incentive to invest knowledge-intensive business in our country. However, the phenomenon of one-sided fleeing abroad, the Brain Drain, which has almost doubled in the years of the crisis, like Brain Gain, which is very important, is the great wound, since it is deprived of its vital powers. From the very beginning, the resurgence of Brain Drain has been high on the agenda of this government. A number of measures aimed at both the public and private sectors have been designed to deal with them. These measures are based on the combination of two intangible circumstances. First of all, it is the creation of quality jobs, which is a necessary treaty, in order to bring the Brain Drain back to work. For example, for the first time after eight years, scientific staff opened up to higher education institutions and research centres in the country, and the budget to be voted on also contributes to this. An example is the recent approval of a hundred and fifty-two special seats of scientific staff who will meet standing needs in the country's research centres, where so far they have been under contracts of employment. But that's not enough. It is a necessary treaty, but something else needs to be done. Jobs need to be combined with attractive research environments, which will act as attraction and inspiration for young scientists. The word 'inspiring' is very important. The first stirring samples of Brain Drain are now visible. High-skilled scientists return to the country and others remain in it to carry out the research projects they have proposed to Greek universities and research centres. The ELIDEK has made available 111 million euros to support a research project of candidates, doctors, members of LAGs and researchers in 2017, having attracted more than seven thousand proposals. I would like here to make another reference to an issue that is very important, an initiative that this government has taken. I would like to refer to the taking of flagship actions, which have essentially a clear social footprint and which have been putting the country in a timely position to become a co-formulator of international developments. Such an example is a flagrant action in the field of medical accuracy, medical for the future, where what we do together with the Ministry of Health is to combine appropriate scientists in this area with emphasis on oncology or on the treatment of hereditary cardiological diseases, such as sudden death. The main concern is that the results of this research are immediately visible, that they are visible as quickly as possible and that they are accessible to every citizen from the public health system. There have been similar actions in the field of agri-foodstuffs and a new action on climate change is now being prepared. All these actions are supported by the Public Investment Programme. I will conclude by making a reference to a major, topical issue concerning the country's position in the landscape that is shaped by the so-called 'F' Industrial Revolution. The stakes are critical. The impact of new, subversive technologies on means and production mode determines the location of sites in the global division of labour, as well as the mechanisms for the movement and accumulation of capital. At the same time, however, there are serious socio-economic challenges, with regard to the future of work, the intensity of inequalities, the quality of the Republic itself and, more generally, the role of policy. Here, close cooperation between ministries is necessary, has been started for some time and there are already initiatives for the country to be present in this new environment. I say this because a lot of noise has been going on about the issue of the Second Industrial Revolution lately. For our part, pilot research actions have been designed in scientific and technological fields, where the country has considerable powers and concerns "The Second Industrial Revolution", so that we can be ready. In conclusion, I would like to sum up by saying that the research policy implemented with support from the 2019 budget promotes a holistic, structured and systematic - step by step - approach to the building of the knowledge economy, always aimed at fair growth and tackling the challenges of the future. The vote in favour of this budget will bring the country even further forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Acharon Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, our country's position is worse than ever, so that the memorandum of political system is brought in and brought to bear by those who you call 'financers', but also by the geopolitical views of the powerful north of the European Union. As a result, the long-term dependence of the state on foreign lending is a consequence. Crime in this particular matter is that you have converted the debt into national debt into English law and we have the greatest historical debt transfer. So, the lenders, after they know that the debt cannot be repaid, asked for sovereign rights. And you - all the Memorandum Governments - have just given it. Why did you give them? Because there is a weakness of the rulers, this weakness gives rise to lawlessness and, in fact, you will not lose power. Now, who rule this country: of course, lenders. They're in charge. Interview of Diaselblum in "BIMA" on 23-9-2017: "Greece and after the memoranda will be in supervision". So who's the budget we're talking about? And why are we talking about what this state can do alone? We're under supervision and say we're out of the memoirs. Second statement, the Regling Declaration, the head of the ESM: 'If their policies change, they should be discussed with the institutions'. Whatever you do, whatever change you want to make in the budget, you need to take the OK. Of the strangers. That's very simple. You're saying we're out of the memoirs. People will not tolerate any more lies. National reconstruction time’. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the Memorandum Governments promised growth. Gentlemen, growth comes from productive and not capital investment. How will there be growth, since the Greeks at the time of the memorials have deinvested? You are now saying that they will help us and the strangers will invest. What strangers? Give us information - we have been asking you for this for two years - about what the revenues of the Greek state are from the sale of PPA and PLTH and from all the other privatizations made by the GOI. Tell us what's in the cash register, if it's in the interest and at what price you're selling, because a serious manager, when he's going to sell, doesn't sell at those prices. You're talking about growth and you say, "After we haven't done everything else, it will help us with the famous Yunker package." That's the development you're talking about. The country is therefore financially suspended, in a spiral of death, with a specific expiry date. Soon we'll have another Memorandum, the way things go. Submission policy is sure and mathematically certain that it will sooner or later bring in another memorandum. So when some people - who will probably soon, in the next few years - decide to dismantle the European Union, we will find ourselves without national production, without national wealth, with supervision, in English law. This is your crime of all those who have signed the memorandum. Now, you are shouting and saying that we have been on the market and that all of this will be in our favour, so that there is a proper and balanced budget. On the markets you did not come out because - as you said later - it was not a good climate. But you also made some Greek government bonds. The question is who took these? They were taken by the supervisory bodies of the ministries. In other words, you charged debts - and you took cash - all the healthy agencies of the Greek State. Also, you have also stopped payments inside. The state's not paying anywhere. All that's in the budget? Is there somewhere? So how does growth begin and what is the backbone of the Greek economy? What are the main pillars since the machine has been erased? Firstly, there is nowhere to reduce taxation. Now, you're going to tell us you did something for the wine. And? Only in one? This is where you put new taxes. Primary production without protectionism. There is no reindustrialization, it doesn't seem anywhere. A package of positive measures for entrepreneurship, so that the small and medium-sized Greek business can take a breath, it doesn't exist. And besides all of this, we have a business Drain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There are only over eight thousand businesses in Cyprus lately. There are basic pillars of the Greek economy, which you do not support. Tourism and shipping pay revenues. What do you do for all this? Nothing! There is one code, 3437, ‘Revenue from inspections’. And what did you do with the law Kurubli? You abolished inspections on Greek ships. And we're talking about 1 million revenues a year. And that will no longer exist in this budget. We therefore have a budget without growth, with no prospect, and this will be done with weak governments that do not protect the national interest. What you are afraid of - and I am closing, Mr President - is that they do not take the plug off us. They plug it out whenever the institutions want you're saying. They're the ones who run the test, and they say it in all their statements. From there on, it's us what we do. Unfortunately, when there is fear - and you fear not to lose authority - that is what concerns the entire Greek society. But when you're raised by a brave act, your race rises and masturbates. Unfortunately, fear governs us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the political leaders in Thessaloniki come up to speak on their speeches, as they are doing every year on the occasion of the city's International Report, a few days after we were announced at the end of August that the country's exit from the memorandums and given the climate that it had then been established, that is to say, given the expectations of a political change, for an opening in the centre, just like the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officer of Officerial Response, at the beginning of September, we were able to conclude and put on paper a proposal for a law, an important proposal for a law. With the valuable help and unselfish support of active citizens, such as the members of the Loan Association of Northern Greece and its President, Babi Pervana, we have managed to submit this proposal to the Greek Parliament with dignity and responsibility, with a high sense of responsibility and strong will, determined to fight it to the end. So today, with my introduction to the budget and within the seven minutes that our democracy will guarantee from the Step here in plenary, this effort, this democratic struggle, this political campaign reaches their peak. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members in advance, all those who did not give up their heads, who did not give up, to thank them from the depths of my heart because they did not give in to rage, because they did not break from despair, because they did not surrender to sorrow and continued to fight. I thank those who still believe that we deserve as Greeks to have a democracy in this place and that it is worth fighting with what this democracy gives us for a better tomorrow for us and our children. Regardless of the fate that this proposal will have, regardless of the behaviour of the House, the Government, the Civic Opposition to our proposal, this struggle has already been won, there are thousands of our fellow citizens who have coordinated their political stepping-up on the idea represented by our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of our proposal has been updated in time by diligence and planning and strong arguments, which exhaust every detail, all the secretaries of all the groups. Everything has been notified to everyone and I have bothered you so myself and from this Step and the runways several times. That is why, and since I certainly do not have time in a few minutes to present it in detail and to refer to the substance of our proposal, I will talk about what it holds, why it is worth paying attention to this proposal. Our proposal asks us a question, ladies and gentlemen, a question that demonstrates its relationship with our budget debate: where is the poverty line in that country? Who's poor? Who isn't? Who do we regard as poor as a Greek state, as a Greek state, as a Greek state? And if this question seems to you to be philosophical or ideological, you are not wrong, but at the same time you should not forget its tangible side, its practical application. Every day Greek judges throughout the country are called upon to decide who our fellow citizen is poor and who is not, whether one of our fellowmans, namely, is poor enough or not to benefit from the support of the Greek state. Judges may also be free to decide on the basis of their conscience, but they are equally committed to applying the letter and keeping the spirit of the laws, the laws that we are voting on in this Chamber. So the laws currently in force are working against the citizens when it comes to deciding who is entitled to support the Greek state, to the protection of Greek democracy. There are tens of thousands of our fellow citizens trapped on the red line between the limits of real poverty and legal poverty. Do you consider, ladies and gentlemen, how many fellow citizens listen to us every day from a responsible lips: 'Your application has been rejected' or 'your request has not been accepted'? There are a lot of things we need to fix, and if we really have started to slowly leave the memos behind, if we have indeed recovered part of our national sovereignty, then we must start immediately to do so. And if we are to choose this, start it, then I and thousands of others believe that the first thing we need to review, the first thing we need to look at and correct is where that poverty is. Ladies and gentlemen, my contribution to the budget debate is precisely this question: where is the poverty line? Should we review certain things? I personally believe that there are dozens of distortions caused by the misappropriation of poor laws in the context of even worse memorandum options. The Greek reality was never reconciled with the claims of those who imposed the policy of extreme austerity. How can we believe that all this was done for our own good? In closing my report and before I come out of this Step, I call on the Government and the Prime Minister to respond directly and before the budget vote next Tuesday, on what will be the government's position on this crucial question, against the proposal for a law that many people have tabled together on 9 September. Members of the government, there are three reasons why I am prevented from voting against your budget, three things that have changed in relation to the previous ones I have voted against: First, after years it was written in Greece, by Greeks. Secondly, no matter how little it gives, I have described them many times, it has given most for many years. Thirdly, it begins to restore injustices and puts an end to the curse of the Greek economy. I invite you to consider the proposal for a law that I have tabled, if you will give me one reason to believe your opening to the center, at the center I dreamed about, at the center I served and serve, always first, ever before, our democracy, Greece, our people and not the numbers, with respect for the sacrifices of the Greek people. I'll keep fighting and be with him. I've always been next to him, I think. That's where I belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. "Foresee what moves, what breathes, all the movable and immovable property," the new Republic's rapporteur told us yesterday. And by taking the baton, the special speaker of the Democratic Association asked last night: 'Is there anything you haven't taxed?' The Opposition, ladies and gentlemen, by failing to win with its policy the broader forces of society, is trying to prevent them from SYRIZA, mocking and pressing on the range of emotions that it causes - logically it is to cause - taxation. However, ladies and gentlemen, someone who wants to build the state's budgets has two ways: either the way to reduce costs or the way in which he has increased his revenue. Let's see the cut in costs. Where does the state spend? In wages and pensions. Cut it out. Reduction of wages, reduction of pensions. But it's not enough. Isn't wage cut enough? Another reduction. If wage cuts are not enough, reductions in workers, redundancies - unemployment - either by speeding up the process to get them out of work. So we have a situation with an increase in unemployment, a good environment for attacking workers' conquests on the conditions of their work. Therefore, the abolition of these conquests, flexible working relationships, even better environment for additional wage reductions and this vicious cycle has no end. That's not in our minds. We have lived through this proposal in the works and days of the Samara - Venizelos government. Not that they didn't impose taxes! Really, who brought him? But even this ENVY pale in front of all the measures to reduce the state's costs. The bill came out of EUR 65 billion. What is the result of this policy, this direction of reducing state costs? In the mid-term, workers lost 60% of their wages, the country lost 25% of GDP, unemployment reached 1/3 of the population, which is close to 30%. What about the young people? Someone invented the underpaid payroll. Unemployment goes to 60%, i.e. two out of three are unemployed and then crocodile tears are poured for young people seeking better luck in other homelands. What is the worst result of all this policy? They did not achieve the desired result, if we accept that the desired result was to get the economy back on track and get out of the memoranda. They didn't make it. From the first Memorandum they have led us to the second and second Memorandums - in my opinion - they have created the economic one-way to go to the third. Because I, ladies and gentlemen, understand the reality. I can't understand it any differently. Let them say what they want, then, about the impotent officials of the SYRIZA government who managed and negotiated since January 2015. When you leave the country with less than half a billion euros in the funds, it can only be a one-way new loan. It's not far away. They look away with the current situation, but it's not far away. Three years ago we were discussing and waiting for the dose from foreigners to pay wages and pensions. So this is the way to reduce the costs of the state, as we have experienced it, not as we have in mind to accuse the opposition. The other way, the way to increase revenues, is tax. Not that we didn't make any cuts, but the dominant was taxation. And I do not understand the Member of the New Democracy who spoke before saying that we never said we would tax. So this road is also a well-known road in Greek society, with tangible results. First and foremost, we're out of the memoirs. Within three years we came out of the memorials. This road, among other things, also contributes to the fairer reproduction of the wealth produced, with interventions that you can make in favour of the poor, in favour of the weak, in favour of those who really need it. I am not going to dwell on the whole social policy that we have implemented, but does any of you, ladies and gentlemen, have any doubt as to whether or not we could secure the financial expenditure necessary to ensure that our uninsured fellow citizens have access to public health services? However, on this path of increasing state income there are others. Among other things, I would like to point out that increased taxation strengthens tax evasion and avoidance tendencies, a scourge for the Greek society against which we must have a front. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would, however, like to focus on a more important disadvantage in this effort. While with redundancies and the reduction of costs, we have targeted measures, with absolutely measurable results, with taxation you cannot know exactly the result. We're going after the tax evasion on fuel. How much do we get? Unknown at first. Like the Lagard list. I am not standing by whether justice has stopped from one point and after intervention in this. How much will he get from the Lagard list? Unknown. Here, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is the basis for the pressure we had to take on further measures, despite the objections, despite the arguments, despite our efforts. It's not like we got ten, as the Opposition says, to split one. We talked to the institutions knowing that we need eight meters, they asked for twenty and we stopped at ten. Of the ten, however, - here too is the basis of over-paid economy - these extra money is returned to the social groups in the form of social benefits and did not follow the route of offshore and the other illegal routes of money to get out. And what do we do now when we come out of the memoirs? 'We call','remove', 'vote measures' says the Opposition. Its treatment is politically superficial: From the "remove measures that we voted against, your well-being that you came to our line" to the politically creepy speech of Mr.Mitsotakis the day before yesterday that we sold Macedonia to get pensions. What else are we gonna hear? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u65	But this is all over with, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u66	The correct reading - and I conclude, Mr President - is that, now that we have come out of the memoranda, we are revoking measures imposed on us by our creditors. In other words, we are withdrawing measures from what we have been imposed by those who "if we did not have them, we should have invented them", as you claim, gentlemen of the New Democracy, through your Vice-President. And of course, if you disagree with your Vice-President, behold the Step in political disapproval of his views. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u67	Finish, Mr. Igoumenides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u68	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. We have reintroduced and extended collective agreements. The reduction in insurance contributions followed, the abolition of the reduction in pensions, the upward increase in pensions of six hundred and sixty thousand pensioners, the abolition of the underpaid wage, the subsidisation of workers' insurance contributions, the abolition of the excise duty on wine. As we are told by the Opposition, Minister, no Memorandum Law and no Memorandum Obligation have been withdrawn. What else are we gonna hear? Let it be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u70	I'm hanging up with this, ladies and gentlemen. We move on, because we believe that the attempt to heal the wounds of society is the effort, the first steps to build Greece of the new era.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Malia of Crete and the 2nd Municipal School of Naples Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Conkogeor from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing these days in the Greek Parliament the last budget of the outgoing government 'SYRIZANEL' in the midst, indeed, of the celebrations of the majority Members who, while knowing the real state of the economy, are screaming, because they continue to believe that they can deceive citizens once again. The majority celebrates and forgets the suffering that has accumulated on the backs of the people with the third, unnecessarily memorable memorandum and where the death penalty and their aerial charges led us. He celebrates why he managed to restore the key indicators of the economy to the levels of 2014 he received, exterminating citizens with an unprecedented tax raid and increases in all basic goods and services. It celebrates why, he says, the country came out of the memorandum and forgets to admit that this exit is under increased restrictions with preferential austerity measures and public property commitments for more than ninety-seven years. He celebrates why, he says, the third memorandum succeeded and forgets to admit that he failed in his main aim to ensure the country's smooth financing from the markets. It celebrates the so-called over-reimbursement of the economy and the large surpluses, but forgets to accept that these come from the unbearable taxes it imposed on all citizens, the seizures, the posting of the state's debts, the delay in the calculation and payment of the new pensioners and the cut-off Public Investment Programme. It celebrates the lifting of capital controls, which they themselves imposed on the unspeakable memory of Varoufakis, and which were "strangled" literally by individuals and businesses. She celebrates the unnew cut in pensions from 1-1-2019, which she legislated twice, and for the poverty benefits she promises and shares as mirrors in natives and forgets to realize that the people have taken over them and waits at the corner to reward them in the upcoming elections. Not even a word about the Lagard lists, the foreign immersion list, the Boyars list and offshore companies, etc. He celebrates because he believes that citizens have forgotten that in the last four years twenty-seven new taxes have been imposed. They increased VAT rates twice. They increased VAT on the islands. They dissolved the insurance system with the Katrugalu law, reducing pensions. They abolished the C.E.S.S. They reduced in a quarter the heating oil allowance. They reduced the cost of medical care. They reduced the benefits of poverty and unemployment. They closed down businesses and individual occupations from overtaxation. They have brought half the country's population to the limits of poverty. They increased the public's debts to the state to the level of 120 billion. Half the country's population has been unable to respond to unbearable taxes. Over two million fellow citizens have been forced to execute and confiscate accounts and property. They are, of course, going on without any quarrel and the auctioning of the first place of residence. They dismantled the country's state and principles of order and security and left citizens to their fate toward any criminal and criminal, in fact causing them to do so, after they highlight every word of "Ruviks" to regulators of public life. As if not all of this were enough, they conscientiously enthusiastize the microbe of society’s division with the supposedly classmark of their politicians. They obviously forget how expensive the people and our country paid the division in the past and how much time it took to heal their wounds. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly do not know whether my compatriots are celebrating in Thessaly, in my special homeland in Evrytania, for all this, as well as in the tragic situation in the prefecture. Unemployment has exceeded 60% of the active population, primary health care is nonexistent, the Carpenesi Hospital goes between deterioration and incorporation, trying to raise the burden of public health in the county. The EMCDDA only responds to half the law because of a bad organisation, despite the valuable efforts of its staff. The school year has not yet begun for the unique Karpenisi PPA since the lack of four educational qualifications. With outrageous indifference, the Minister of Education in Evrytanoplas denies school meals in all schools, as well as their equal opportunities for education. The social welfare structures, such as the Carpenesi Elderly Hospital, have been saturated, while the Ministry of Labour is not interested in the operation of the new wing that has been built for eight years. Households are practically frozen by the banning prices of heating oil and the non-existent oil bonus. The firms, which have been left by the government's robbery, are phytosanitary since they cannot cover their basic operating costs. The infrastructure of the prefecture is falling apart from the lack of funding, both of the municipalities and of regional unity, despite the ambitious efforts of local authorities. This and worse is the situation experienced by the citizens of mountain Evrytania, as I believe in the whole of the territory, despite the celebrations of "SYRIZANEL" and I am sure that in the forthcoming elections they will receive the price they deserve and will be the sad sidelines in the modern history of our country. In conclusion, I am voting against the last budget of the outgoing government 'SYRIZANEL'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Aylonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the budget for 2019. In other words, we are discussing the first Memorandum of Understanding, the first budget after the end of the budgetary programmes, but also the first expansion budget after a decade, when Greek citizens realise what it means to get out of the memoranda, what it means that the country enters into a period of normality. This budget is realistic, it is credible, it is developmentist, it is fair, it is the first budget after a decade, where Greek citizens will not see any cuts in taxes again, they will not see tax increases, they will not see harmful measures, but, on the contrary, they will see concrete interventions that come to restore some of the injustices that have accumulated over the past few years. This budget comes to relieve citizens of reductions in tax burdens and HICP, with measures to enhance social protection, with a rental subsidy programme, as well as protection of vulnerable households with loans to inability to repay, with measures to boost employment by subsidising new jobs for young people up to twenty-four years, as well as recruitment to the sensitive area of special education and the 'Help at Home' programme. All this change of policy is done in a way that is legitimized, in a way balanced between budgetary expansion and social support measures, in a way that is careful, which is coming to preserve the credibility of the country that has been built with so many sacrifices by the Greek people. Therefore, all interventions are costly and aim at the fiscal stability of the country, in order to maintain a stable growth rate of more than 2%, which is necessary to strengthen employment and the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the country's return to normality was not legal, it was not given. The entire Greek people lived in a climate of terrorism created by you, New Democracy and PASOK, along with your friendly means. You said that we will not close the first assessment, we will not close the second assessment, the cut will come, we will not close the third assessment, we will not regulate the debt, we will not get out of the memoranda, we will not have a clean exit, we will have new measures, there will be no countermeasures, a fourth memorandum. And those retired people, what have been months now that you've bombed them by cutting off their pensions, at best, deferring the measure for a semester? Perhaps retired people should now demand compensation for mental suffering. No more, but you have come to ask for the change from the institutions, which have accepted not only the abolition of the pension reduction law, but also our economic programme with so many shameful tax reliefs. You have come to plunder, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in a far-reaching right-wing speech, by adopting the Cheetas of the Golden Dawn, the praisers of the Nazis, not only because you have been left out of account by abolishing the law of pension cuts, but because you are competing with them for the right-wing vote. And you do not hesitate to reach this at the bottom of misery, gamble and divide the Greek people. What a disgrace, really! They will tremble the bones of the National Lord Karamanlis, who, when he founded his party in 1974, threw them out of the party and now you come and even put them in your house. So after so many controversy, the only destructive thing left for you is that we haven't been on the market yet. Slowly, ladies and gentlemen, do not invest and put all your opposition ostrich on it, because you will still lose, you will be written in the book Gina - why? - for your ongoing wrong forecasts. So poor in the arguments, you give us that we are the longest-lived Memorandum Government. However, the comparison, ladies and gentlemen, must be made in what each of us has done at the present time. So in your shorter memorial period, which you brought to the country, you raised unemployment from 9% to 27%. There was a loss of labour rights, there was a reduction in wages by 22% and by 32% for young people. There was a reduction in pensions up to 45%. You raised the debt from 125% to 180%. You have put EUR 63 billion indestructive measures on taxes and wage cuts and pensions, while the country lost 25% of its produceable wealth that didn't lose it or come out of World War II. We in a longer memorandum period removed the country from the memorandum, reduced unemployment from 27% to 18.6%, creating over three hundred thousand jobs. We have strengthened the welfare state with access to all uninsured health, with the support of primary health, with the creation of school meals, a rental allowance, a social solidarity allowance, with the recruitment of doctors, nurses and teachers. We have succeeded in the country returning to growth. We have set up the debt and created sustainable social security. Now that we have come out of the memoranda, we have restored collective agreements with the principles of expansion and more favourable regulation. We are going to increase the minimum wage and abolish the subordinate. We reduce taxes, reduce HNPH, reduce insurance contributions and cut commemorative laws, such as pension cuts. We are creating an environment for sustainable development with targeted budget expenditure, without jeopardising the achievement of the objectives, so that every year by 2022 a financial space can be saved for further reductions and for restoring injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, on the long road to the polls Greek citizens have to decide whether they are following, whether they accept the neoliberal policy of plundering the New Democracy or whether they go with SYRIZA in a Greece of fair growth, defence of labour and individual rights and strengthening the social state. You know, this option is very easy and in them the country's first memorial budget for 2019 shows the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of 2018 and we have already counted almost four months since the end of the third memorandum. In front of us we have a budget which is an image of the economic and social situation in the country for the next year, but also two political aspects which interpret this picture quite differently. On the one hand, the government is talking about a memorial budget and is over-protecting positive measures as if there were no wild taxes again. And on the other hand, it is the Civic Opposition that shines through its absence. Of the seventy-five Members there are now five in the Chamber who are fighting the 'bad' budget. But let us be honest. We have to accept that this year's budget contains, in addition to the negative and good news, but unfortunately not for everyone and, unfortunately, not the extent and intensity that the budget of a country is supposed to have returned to normality and can now give back to society some of what has been denied to it for several years. Also, such good news does not result from growth or from some kind of excess of wealth. They still come from heavy taxation. Reduction of contributions for two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers, yes, it was an absolutely necessary correction, but it remains a drop in the ocean. Electorally, the Prime Minister was saying about HNPH that it is not falling, but it is now being abolished, almost four years later, it brings a 10% cut. In addition, we reach the end of the law of Katseli with thousands of homes, even first homes, to be in the air. That's for example. There is a lot more, unfortunately, that we are in a difficult budget, as I said before, of a budget that provides for EUR 910 million, but also for additional taxes of EUR 1 billion. And let us not forget that our country is still faced with some prerequisites. The truth is that those who have been yelling for the wrong recipe for years, even today when Greece is out of memory, unfortunately, are entitled to be bitterly. I will not deny, of course, that there are indicators of recovery. However, we cannot claim that indicators are proof of the reality of society and the market. Ladies and gentlemen, what I mentioned to the majority is negative for the budget and therefore also for the result of the government effort. That is why, as I did in the previous three budgets of this government, i.e. that I did not vote on them, I will do the same for him. But I must add that I honestly do not understand the attitude of Officer Responsibility. On the one hand, she votes for the positive measures that she said they would not exist and, on the other hand, she shows her sadness about them everywhere. Mr. Mitsotakis today votes for the non-reduction of pensions, but Mr. Hadjidakis, the Vice-President, a while ago, rebuked Mr. Moscovici, when he said that a new cut would lead even more pensioners to the poverty line. Also Mr. Mitsotakis considers that the money that will not be missing from pensions is the ransom of treason. Did you hear that? Yes, he thinks it's one of the 300 Judas's silvers he took for treason from strangers. But then, really, they rightly ask him: Why does he accept and consecrate these ransom of betrayal? Also, Mr. Mitsotakis claims to take ten of all and give one to some. But can he forget that almost all the extermination taxes in the third memorandum were essentially structured in the second memorandum on the Samara - Venizelos conflict? I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that after eight years of memoranda, we have all learned difficult lessons and have all experienced many difficult times in the country or even here in this House. Clearly, therefore, and the government is not entitled to pretend that its time began after 21 August, the exit from the memorandum. It is four years in power, it was elected by a programme that it did not implement, but the programme it finally implemented did not bring the results she had hoped or said. Clearly, however, and Kyriakos Mitsotakis and those who have been ministers of the Government of Samaras - Venizelos are not entitled to be together that they have no responsibility for what we have taken in the Memorandum years. The full truth is that the responsibilities are shared. They have a past, a present and a name. The truth about the 2019 budget is that it has, as I said in our committee, deep and steep rags, but also has some green valleys. I don't want to look good, but I don't want to devalue anything. That is why I will, with absolute seriousness and consistent consistency, deny every Memorandum of Understanding for this year's budget. I will not, however, deny either the minimum amount of social benefit it contains. Every breath our society wins is precious and it would be unfair and unjust not to take it. But I'm not hiding that I'm so worried. Greece remains weak. The same is true of all Europe. The real recovery and distance from a normal budget is still far away. Ladies and gentlemen, "yellow vests" are likely to be worn in Greece as well. It's not the fashion, it's the facts that's too much and stubborn to ignore. Macroon's political youths are seeing that they didn't last for long. The hopes invested in his candidacy proved in practice to be fruits, since as President he did nothing more than continue the same neoliberal policy, often more aggressively than Olad. Hence the name 'the President of the rich'. The conclusion of all the similar overthrow movements in Britain, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Hungary, Poland, even in the country of Merkel, with the anti-immigrant, national, social anti-Europeanist party Alternative for Germany, are being buttoned precisely with Greece's political things. Small and medium-sized strata are massively turning their backs on traditional dominant political groups. Read today's ALCO poll those who didn't see it. And of course not all of these have been affected by some kind of antisystemic vote ideological virus. The main reason for questioning the established order is precisely that the political groups of this type of centre-left with centre-right just as we live in Greece - with Samara - Venizelos yesterday, with Mitsotakis - genitals today - along with corrupt elites in all the western countries, even in America, and in our homeland overthrow the constants of our life. The political map also changes because of the economic crisis and globalisation. And that's why Mr. Mitsotakis, who has worn McCron's suit, is time to project another suit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u77	So do we. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u78	Three days in Parliament we are watching SYRIZA and New Democracy, Mitsotakis and Tsipras present that they disagree with everything. It seems, however, that they agree on a crucial issue for the country's progress. They agree to create artificial polarization and division, to create a climate that favours them micro-partyly, no matter what the country's course. Greece sails without compass, no national line. And that is a matter of choice or no choice. It's not about betrayals. After all, we have heard from both extremes and many others outside the Chamber. The ANLL-SYRIZA Government and, above all, the Prime Minister have rejected the national agreement and proved to be very convenient for the implementation of decisions, which are unfortunately taken in some centres without the participation of our country. This fourth budget of the ANELSYRIZA has the same characteristics as the previous ones with few differentiations. He obeys the choice of Tsipras for high surpluses, the bloody surpluses as he said. It maintains the system of overtaxation for every citizen, for each family, for each undertaking and, of course, maintains the low costs for active social cohesion and convergence policies. The government thus leads more and more small and medium-sized enterprises to poverty, and this is demonstrated by evidence from the beneficiaries of the allowance, who are constantly increasing. It's a budget that gets ten and promises one. Except what he promises is like uncovered checks. So it can well be described as a stiff budget. It has nothing to do with the Petsite, it has more to do with the pets, the uncovered cheques. The economy is dragging, and of course we have some glimpse of tourism and shipping, but all of it is small and medium-sized enterprises that are still well-determined. The government welcomes the transformation of unemployment or, more precisely, the transformation of labour. The lowest rates of unemployment are due to a large increase in half-time, to a large increase in working hours - semi-employment now seems to be a very good scheme of work with what is currently being done in many companies - of course it is also due to the establishment of wages and allowances. Mostly, however, the government shows peace with the benefits it gives. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of guaranteed social income that we created in 2014 on the initiative of PASOK - and not as it turns around and says in the channels the chief strategic planning on the initiative of the New Democracy - which I had the honour of working as the State Secretary, with the cooperation of course of the other colleagues and which was implemented pilotally in 2014, had three pillars: the first pillar was financial support to keep the weak, the second pillar, the provision of social services and goods and third and more important work reintegration through active policies. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in addition to having delayed two years to implement it - as planned in July 2015, had to be acted all over the country - toweled - and here too, Petcite, what to do: accidentally it is the expression! - the pillar of labour reintegration. What does that mean now? Essentially, it created and creates more and more permanent allowances every day, which deny legal work so that they do not lose the allowance, as income limits will be passed on. It creates a trap of poverty that marginalizes people and work. The need to overthrow this poverty trap is immediate. With a specific proposal that we have tabled in the proposal for a law: 'Strength of measures for economic recovery and social justice', we propose how this work reintegration will return and the ever-increasing entry into the trap of poor economic people will be prevented. But we also have, in our proposal, other important things relating to the economy, entrepreneurship and, of course, to jobs. Reduction of taxation gradually all taxes and immediate abolition of the most unfair ones. We have worked out an innovative proposal for an immediate additional reduction in taxation on undertakings that will be reintroduced for full-time work. For all these enterprises, the immediate reduction in taxation will be the ultimate incentive to move forward and we can achieve it. Another basic proposal concerning the agricultural sector, in order to establish and strengthen producer groups, is to reduce taxation for all products moved through the producer groups, which are currently being sought in a number of ways 'black' transactions. Contributions remain high despite a horizontal reduction. We propose abolishing the Katrugalo system and introducing eight insurance classes from EUR 82 to EUR 600 in order to establish a new system. I would like to conclude by referring to two other proposals contained in the proposal for a law. One is to list the applicable provisions of Law 3869 for overdue households in order to allow protection of first residence and within 2019. And let the Government work out a new proposal in 2019. But to God! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.. The second is the sustainable and definitive regulation that we are proposing for dues to tax administration, for insurance funds and for municipalities. It's not enough to say 120-dose adjustment. We must say that it will not be new, so it will be sustainable, and how the loser will be reintroduced, of course, by paying the corresponding sums again. Ladies and gentlemen, with the 'Greece' project, we are talking to the citizens, and we are now asking who are with our proposals, who are with the sustainable solutions that we propose, who are with the future and with progress, and who will remain with polarisation, division and mutual dissipation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Karayannis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is among other things a dynamic and evolving relationship. It combines the restrictions in the past with the government's economic decisions for the present and future. Decisions should aim at macroeconomic stability, strengthening development and social protection. As far as restrictions are concerned, they are reflected in the timeless sufferings of the Greek economy, the causes of the crisis, the obligations of the memorial era and the observance of the rules of the Eurozone Stability Pact. Under these restrictions, the Government is invited to make its decisions on the 2019 budget. This means an effort to balance the immediate needs and short-term objectives. This balance shall be sufficiently reflected in the draft, the first following the end of the strict committee. The forecasts and measures incorporated into the 2019 budget include many positive points such as the growth of 2.5%, the primary surplus, the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of the insurance contributions of free professionals and farmers, the grant of insurance contributions from young workers and the gradual reduction of business tax. The financial performance of the last three years has allowed non-cutting pensions and a social dividend to be paid, of course positive measures that strengthen economic activity and social cohesion. The 2019 budget on the basis of costs per Ministry and decentralised administration shall create the conditions for stabilisation, productive reconstruction and support of the welfare state. The strengthening of the agri-food sector, the main pillar of productive reconstruction, will make a significant contribution to the country's adequacy in quality foods and will further reduce the gap in the trade balance. The extroversion of the Greek economy will help innovative businesses and industries with integrated high technology. At the same time, the conditions are being created for a stable competitive and simplified investment environment, with the aim of attracting foreign investment and developing international cooperation and partnerships. However, the risk and reward relationship must be improved even further, because the risk remains high for long-term investors. It is still necessary to restructure economic diplomacy and all extroverts to attract investment and promote exports. Modernising public administration, stable tax, transparency in public procurement, simplification of investment processes, new financial instruments and intensive investment effort will continuously improve the country's investment climate. Positive developments in the euro area and the development of the global economy that positively affects its exports should prompt us to direct structural and institutional reforms, with a view to improving productivity, international competitiveness and growth. The apparent long-term stimulus of demand should aim at the most needy population groups, because the risk is always at risk, due to the imbalances of the Greek economy, the feedback of the vicious cycle, deficits and recession. Thus, it is right to strengthen vulnerable social groups that have been particularly affected by the crisis and to create the conditions of support for the social state. And here is the major difference in terms of the neoliberal monetarist policies that have dismantled the social state throughout Europe and have led to today's European deadlocks, major inequalities and Euroscepticism. Unfortunately, Margaret Thatcher's well-known saying "There is no society despite the individual and his needs" has haunted Europe, which should regain its lost founding principles and values. But the path of our recovery is even longer and painful. The effort to combat tax evasion and corruption should strengthen, as should the restructuring of the public sector. The reduction in business taxation gives a clear breath on the market, but it should also be accompanied by other measures to support healthy entrepreneurship, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises in the social economy. The revision of Law 4469/2017, the closure of the outstandings of the old development, the simplification of the authorisation of economic activities, the Fund for Microfinance, the new financial instruments, the exploitation of the presence of international development agencies and the reconstruction of extroverts are only a few points that need to be addressed in a timely manner. However, in order to achieve the reforms and ensure overall prosperity, social cohesion is required. Its strengthening is rightly and must remain a priority in a country that has experienced the nightmare of the crisis for over eight years. In addition, a positive relationship between social cohesion and the quality of institutions is known on the one hand and systematic development and economic equality on the other. This principle is served by the 2019 budget, ensuring the necessary financial space for achieving the objectives of aid, social cohesion and fair development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the Clergy of Time is empty for your Government. In a few weeks' time it will be completed four years in the power of a heirly populist government who won the elections using lying, deception and division. Four years that leave behind the remains of ruin in almost all areas of public life, whose true size will be revealed after you have been removed from the government. The New Democracy had warned in time what was going to happen. He had hit the risk bell that behind the big words and puffs of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos with the flawless memory "Go back, madam Merkel" was hiding a catastrophic destructive artifact, an unforgivable irresponsibleness and incurable ideals. It turned out that not only were we right, but that reality was even worse. And we have experienced this and experienced it so far in a painful way: watching the country sinking into stagnation, continuing deadlocks with a collapsed international authority and, above all, with a people who seem to have lost their hope for tomorrow. Today it is clear to everyone that we are dealing with a government that plays its roots in a dangerous and obsolete division that adopts tactics of Polakis to hit its opponents. At the same time, however, it produces the same scandal that tries to hide under the carpet, such as the waiter of Maximos who we read is under whatever economic transaction stone and if one raises or the immoral party of NGOs with the funds for the refugee problem. However, the heavier legacy you leave just before you say goodbye to power is this one in the national issues, where you opened wounds inclined by your ideas, so that we have today a Mr. Zafe to make language out in Greece on the basis of a convicted agreement, which you offered him on the plate with identity, language and history, and with a Rama to level the rights of the Greeks of Northern Epirus because he knows he has nothing to fear from Athens. And instead of taking your hard lessons, you move the finger. But the answer to your works and your days will soon be received by the Greek people. Today you are bringing us a budget included in the communication menu of Maximo cooks for exiting the memoirs, an exit, however, which still does not mean exiting the markets, an exit accompanied by a banning loan rate. The truth, of course, is that because of your authority the country has lost valuable time. While it could end with the memorials from 2015, you loaded her with a third inappropriate memorial and commitments that essentially constitute a quasi-fourth memorial, even subjugating the antiquities, loyals and sacred works of the country. The reality of the average citizen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u83	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u84	And he's believed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u85	What you know is very well, Mr. Darkness. You promised for a hundred years antiquities. Your Government has caused many and you do not give the list of antiquities you have put as a pledge to the U.S. for ninety-nine years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u86	You a clone of Adoni? May I? You have another picture!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u87	You don't want to answer that question. You're hiding. You don't give evidence. Twenty-nine extra taxes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u88	You have no reason to be a clone of Adoni or the far right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Darkness, the reality experienced by the average citizen has nothing to do with the imaginary world you are projecting. Because you've thrown an unbroken burden of taxes into the middle class, on the head of healthy productive forces that can't breathe. Twenty-nine are the extra taxes, the raisins you imposed on households and businesses, making Greece a champion in overtaxing the OECD countries. He filed the relevant list, the Chief of Officer Responsibility. Of course, your government is about the book Gina, as there must be no precedent with a Minister who ignores what VAT is. Ms. Fotou may ignore what VAT place, but more and more citizens are unable to pay your unfavourable taxes. EUR 43 billion goes beyond the due tax debts of more than four million taxpayers during your governance period. At the same time, the country's competitiveness was oppressed, falling into third world categories. The most shocking is the cynicism with which you rule, the ones who have made a policy of cheeking crocodile tears for the unfortunate children who have lost their lives in Larissa. You have reduced to one quarter the heating allowance. From the 210 million that the analgesic, as you described it, the Samara government, you socially sensitive, have only limited the allowance to 60 million. You wondered how they get out in winter, how they get through to Livadi Elasson, but also to the mountains of Olympus and Kissavos, where they need to burn for heating from October to Easter? With unprecedented tax bleeding, with a public-private-private-private-private-private-privileged posture, with almost disappearance of public-investment, and by freezing the payment of new pensions, you are glad that you have achieved overcrowding. Once the much less you called them "blooded". Is yours supposed to be called? And with this, you now share the election demands of the use of unwritten votes. With tax cuts and insurance contributions that you imposed you are trying to convince the cutlers of 2015 to vote again. You resort to the recipe of the fat promises and falsehoods that brought you to power. Except no one anymore believes you. If something positive came out of your governance, it is that the moral staff you had built on the margin was demolished. You're out in the light. You've ruled. You've been revealed. Everything was a shirt empty. And that citizens will charge you very much to the elections that I hope you will shortly be proclaiming under the burden of your deadlocks and failures. After all, it is the only service you can offer to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read a letter to this House: "With this letter, please approve my absence abroad for the period from 21 December to 26 December. An honor, Nikitas Kaklamanis.’ Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u91	So this House has approved the requested permission. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Ilias Cameroon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time now, but much more now that the debate on the budget has started, we have been following a controversy which we could not avoid and which is mainly based on which of the governments took more negative measures, the former or our own, which took positive measures. Allow me, of course, to say that the previous ones do not have one positive to present. Our rapporteur has demonstrated this with a very long picture and documented evidence. It has proved who they are who took most of the measures and how we had to take those few ones here. But let me say that this is not the right basis on which we are confronting it. And I have said, and I have said many times even the Prime Minister when he says that we have succeeded where others failed, and I have disagreed. Why? Why do we have the same goals? So, do we think they were meant to get out of the memoirs and they couldn't get us out and we got out? They were fine with the memoirs. In fact, they have tried to go through the institutional issues that they wanted for our country - and we know that - when during the negotiations raised questions that were raised by domestic interests here, both within and directly, but also through their political representatives. We can also say that they are positively characterising the measures which we consider to be positive, in particular the New Democracy. In particular: Is it negative for New Democracy to become redundancies, as he did? After bragging what the institutions didn't impose on us, we had to. Even today they say the public is big and that it should be limited, etc. Was it and is it negative for New Democracy to dismantle the health system and take care of the one with money and the one who doesn't have to throw him on the street? We saw how he dealt with the whole issue of people's hospitality. And it is not just the 5 euros and 25 euros, which were and are very important for the world of work. It's the fact that you couldn't have been taken care of, and they kicked you out of the hospital if you owed it to the CTE. Was that negative for New Democracy? We saw their attitude - and let me take the example - when we voted on the Insurance Act - we said that we made it dependent on incomes, beyond the national pension - and we saw what revolution happened in here. Unfortunately, it did not happen from the New Democracy. It was done by the other groups, saying, "But is it possible for me to pay more and have the same care in the hospital as the one who pays less or does not pay anything?" This is their classic view of health provision, as they have on all issues. So I do not accept the debate that they have taken more negative measures and we have less. Yeah, we have to say that. That's the way it is, but we're gone. We legalize them. And we lose a lot more when all of this is blurred through false news, but also through the allegations in the House of the various speakers from this party. Are collective agreements positive measures for New Democracy? We know what they think. Is it a good thing to upgrade public universities and public education in general? Since we know that they want us to grant education to private interests and whoever has money to have better education. It's the big difference. Is the redistribution of income positive for New Democracy? Because of time I cannot bring examples, but I wanted to make that clear. There are two policies. It is our policy that looks from here to many, and it is the policy of those who look from there for the interests of the few who even in the crisis have served these same interests. They're the ones who created offshore, they're the ones who took the borrowers and the other. These are matters that have been said, I do not have time to repeat them, but they demonstrate this different policy. We pull the rope out of here and they pull it from there. I wanted to answer Costa Scandalidis on this. It is, of course, a more general answer. We've been friends since. We're from the same island. He is not now elected in Kos, but is elected in Athens. By answering Kostas, I will give this more general answer. Do we have or don't we have two policies, friend Costa? It has conducted a policy that this budget does not inspire optimism, it does not give rise to growth. But, man Costa, growth first - it's based on man. Above all, this budget is based on humanity, as is our policy to date with all the difficulties it has had. Once again, because of the time, I will close with examples to prove where we are going and where they are going. Our islands have not been and have not yet had the opportunity to have doctors, as they should. We were forced to take a military doctor right now. You know, on the little islands of five inhabitants, fifteen, twenty-five goes military doctor every week. Who did this? Who cares? Do you know how important this upgrade made to public health for our islands when they need to travel days to go to make a vaccine or the pregnant woman go to be tested by the doctor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The desalination of the islands is done and there is little left to cover the subject or the transport equivalent. I'll hang up with this. Who could imagine that, at the moment with the application of the transport equivalent, the ticket from 54 euros from Kos, for example, or 52 euros from Kalymnos, has gone down to 34 euros? Who could imagine a 40% reduction in the island's transports? And not just the passengers. The transport of goods is over 50%. And now it will also apply to fuel. So, Mr Costa, there may be problems that we need to solve, but we need to pull the rope from here and not from there. And everyone has to take a seat, whether they're from here or there, as you said, friend Costa, in 1981 that we have to choose where we're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Gregos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the last budget of this government 'formation' SYRIZA - ANEL, a government that has made the Greek people poor, who has voted for memos, which has increased unemployment, which has destroyed businesses and, above all, the middle class and almost all of the professional groups, an irreversible government which fortunately collapses in a few months' time. We have heard the Prime Minister's lies these days and the lies of the relevant ministers. In fact, it would be tragic to accept that the Greek people have become living with benefits now. At the same wavelengths and the so-called anti-national clerical arc that he ruled and seeks to rule this country. Although the State Budget for 2019 is supposed to be the first memorandum and the Government is cominating on it, it is nevertheless clear that it is based on the hard commitments of the new informal memorandum signed by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in June 2018. Convergence systematically attempts to present the 2019 budget as the first memorial budget, claiming it is expansive, that is, it does not lead to a contraction of the economy and has elements of reducing austerity. Insurmountable benefits promises are based on over-optimistic forecasts: GDP growth of 2.1% in 2018 and 2.5% in 2019, over-increases of 3.96% in 2018 and 4.25% in 2019 in order to get the election dividend out. Essential now to all Greek citizens is that the intractable conflict of SYRIZA - Kammenos is determined to impose even more austerity with a view only at the end to be able to make another distribution of a temporary allowance, making it awkward to the Greeks who expect the generosity of the rulers to pass with some dignity on the holy days of Christmas from the money they have been grabbed in thousands of different ways. In the big debt issue, the new budget continues the multiformal contingency of the Greek people by paying debts of 13 to 14 billion a year from the bloody surpluses through the taxation of people's money, wages and pensions, cuts in social and development expenditure, pillaging of public property, auctions and seizures for debts in the DU, PPC etc. An anti-social, anti-grassroots, tax-institutional, this budget is characterised by this. The truth is that in the third memorandum the indirect taxes that are and the most unfair, since the weaker economic groups cannot be cut off from expenditure on basic types of living in order to avoid tax burden. There have been international surveys that rank Greece first in the indirect lighthouses in recent years. According to a recent study published by the Greek Chamber of Economics, 90% of the income tax on natural persons is being borne and paid for by 19% of taxpayers. In other words, just one out of five taxpayers pays nine of the ten euros that they receive from the public from direct income taxes. So until when will the total burdens of so few taxpayers rise? And they are few, because tax revenues are now derived from an increasingly smaller number of private individuals and companies that are increasingly burdening more and more tax burdens. Others simply fail to respond and are faced with seizures of accounts, assets, etc. Anise, therefore, is the impact of taxation. Let's give another example: between 2010 and 2016 the share of income available that went to income tax and insurance contributions increased from 6.13% to 9.34% for the poorest, while for the richest it was from 28.4% to 29.8%. Similarly, the property tax as a percentage of the available income increased at the same time for the poorest strata from 0.14% to 6.98%, while for the richest, the corresponding increase was from 0.12% to 2.45%. And this treaty will become even worse if we take account of the reduction of duty-free from 1-1-2020. It is no coincidence that public debts are constantly increasing, even for sums of up to EUR 500. Nor is it accidental that in September 2018 the total number of captive taxpayers was 1.148.583, recording an increase of 453,509, compared with the end of 2015, i.e. a significant proportion of approximately 7,5 million taxpayers. This government has not reduced either inequality or social injustice. What has happened is a peculiar redistribution of poverty, through cuts and overtaxation of the middle class, but also of wage earners with a view not to really upgrading the position of the poorest parts of society, but simply surviving them, through benefits that can allow "communication" declarations, but to no extent constitute development policy with a plan. The cohabitation talks about a budget to reduce austerity, but it does not admit the cuts that are included, obviously and not. In fact, the health ministry's budgets are downwards. I have some details of the WTO which I do not have time to mention. If you'd like, we can talk about HICPIA as well. In this case it is estimated that 66% of the EMCDDA's receipts are based on 33% of the owners' payments. And I wonder: did Mr. Tsipras' government not sign the third memorandum in August 2015? Wasn't she also brought in the medium-term 2019-2022 in June 2018? However, Mr Tsipas certainly did not apply what he promised in the election, namely the abolition by a law and an article of all the austerity measures, as also did not abolish HNPH. Election was said to defend the public character of airports, because, as he said, "the sale will never be accepted". But what happened when it became a government? SYRIZA, from a privatization fighter, became the warmest supporter. Of course, there is no room for manoeuvre on the part of the rulers, since according to the first memorial report of enhanced supervision given by the Commission, the risk of investing in the Greek and the concession of the Egnatia Road is at stake. Mr. Tsipras said in August 2013: "Let them not dare or think about it by Mr. Samaras, etc., the PASOK of Venizelos, the auctioning of the first home". We're talking about a political fraud. Again Mr. Tsipras on 15-1-2015 had also made a commitment to 'a complete protection of the first home from the auctions'. Another political fraud. Too many political deceptions. The storm of auctions and sales of red loans continues, promises, compulsions, an unreliable policy that has provided benefits, as I said before, for giving, just as an ashes to the eyes of the Greeks. Solutions and hope for growth, for a better and decent life, do not exist now nor are they in the application of previous governments. As I have said before above the numbers and budgets, there are the crimes you committed against the Greek people and our country, with a leading betrayal of our Macedonia. Be sure that the Greek people will not forget these crimes and we will take care of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Georgia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today a success has been achieved by the Greek people who have fought and been deprived of their wealth by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. Today he receives flesh and bone another success of today's Greek government, the only government to tell the truth and only the one, which promised what he imagined was impossible. And so it would be if those who have been holding our country back for years continued to put it low, putting their own interests very high. This was impossible only in the eyes of right-wing neoliberal policy and perhaps careless. For us, it was necessary and an objective, given always the circumstances, but which was achieved by systematic effort, consistency, perseverance, self-determination and consciousness. So, not only have we promised to leave the memorandum and have done so, but today, as we promised last year in the 2018 budget, we are discussing the first Memorandum of Understanding that does not include austerity measures, but relief measures, measures to restore injustice, positive measures, development measures, social justice and progress, measures to strengthen social cohesion. When we first had said that, the neo-democrats were mocking, many were distrustful. Today we are abducting them. We close the mouth of those who have invested and discounted the fourth memorandum, those who have invested in cutting pensions, applying reductions and unbearable austerity measures, and perhaps some there on the right, even displeased with positive development, since the implementation of austerity is within their budget plan and always demands their policy. Gentlemen of counter-population, you invest in black. We want to color the lives of our fellow citizens. You choose equalisation, we choose correction and progress. You choose paradigms and rhyphetology. That's what you've done for years and you know it well. We choose responsibility, we choose to respect the law of demands, we invest in man, in the future, in the country. And today, whether you like it or not, the majority of Greeks celebrates and we are proud that we have kept our word that we are still making a commitment. Today I also feel very pleased that we can look at our fellow people in the eyes, who have been able to meet the expectations of our citizens, correct the things that this year's budget comes immediately after the legislation on non-pension of pensions, on 'Help at Home', on reducing insurance contributions, on reimbursement of special salaries, on reducing HICP and following these on rent subsidies, on subsidies for insurance contributions. And I feel even more proud that this year's budget will be the basis for even greater openings and progress of the Greek economy and of the Greek society. Today is also an integral part of the overall plan that this government has for the memorandum Greece, an additional step towards the long road that we have drawn up for a better Greece, free to choose and target its own economic, fiscal and social policy, for a Greece that has turned irrevocably, for a more productive, socially fair, free, for a Greece better for its inhabitants, for their everyday lives. That is what we promised, too, a step forward, and with the help of all our fellow citizens we will be able to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know, I do not think the Greek people who listen to us have the same opinion as the colleague who spoke just now that they did not lie to the Greek people. Only one reminder, the shading of the memorandum and the fact that they brought a third very hard memorandum. So we are talking today about another budget, which does not respond to the problems and needs of the country, the economy and society, a budget that is counterproductive and anti-social that reproduces, rather than solves, the ideological obsessions and structural distortions that keep Greece low. We are discussing a budget which, as the main axes, once again has overtaxation and surpluses. The Greek is no longer able to pay taxes. Only in September 513 million of debts were raised by HNVIA and income tax that were not paid by Greek taxpayers. About five hundred thousand taxpayers did not pay the first instalment of ENVY in September and the second instalment of personal income tax. Three years, then, the government has not yet realised or worse, it has realised it, but it closes the eyes before the need for the effective liberalisation of our country's creative forces. They cynically admit that targeting the middle class was and is a conscious choice of a strategic character. Today, the middle class is cracked, the self-employed have kneeled from taxes and other charges, the private sector creates only half-employment with hunger wages, farmers and farmers are fighting daily unequal battle. Even the unreasonable tax on wine has taken three years to get him back. Unemployment, unemployed women, older unemployed have nothing to expect from your policy. Instead of the rate of growth of an economy which has been compressed for so many years, you yourself once again see in the text of the budget development less than the rate of overcrowd, which you have signed. What is your policy to overthrow this situation? So you continue overtaxing and reduce the public investment programme by EUR 550 million. You do not give incentives to create new jobs in the private sector, you do not give incentives to investment that will create real, sustainable and well-paid jobs, which will, among other things, broaden the tax base. But you're doing something even more destructive. You are baptising "social policy" household caging in poverty. You are making the Greeks negligent, you are entangled with your policy on poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, and then you are giving them a minimum of one hand, which you have removed with the other. You who have electionally made dignity a flag, are now creating armies dependent on sporadic benefits. Of course, what we need to stress about pensions and charges is the fact that you signed and voted for the cut-off measure and now you come and tell us and celebrate, because you cancel the measure that you and we did not vote on. Because of this foreign policy, you have destroyed everything with heavy sacrifices the country had achieved by the beginning of 2015 and you come to tell us that you are now solving the problem with this subsidy policy. Even in education, the most powerful tool of development and social mobility, you chose to promote minor effort and levelling down. You set up vocational education and training, lifelong learning. You did not make good use of the important institutional tool of apprenticeship, which, in fact, if it had worked properly and to the extent that it should have been, would have given a significant impetus in this area. We have seen that the competent Minister responsible for vocational training has been removed all these years. So if this policy were a success in this area, why should the Minister responsible be removed? You have supported and supported, as you have decided, and unfortunately we see it throughout its range, the lawlessness of the Greek universities. And here, unfortunately, you are undermining an important change that had to be made in the Constitution for the revision of Article 16, a change that, unfortunately, even today, when we see what has been done with education and education in other countries, we refuse to see the reality and do not even see the example of Cyprus. Even you yourself realise that the mixture of your policy is a dead end. You implement this policy by ideology alone, not the upgrading of the economy and society, but the utilization of the uncovered return to limit your upcoming heavy defeat in the next national election. Now, even those who have never been near New Democracy and those who have never been in the past are now aware of the need for a radically different policy, a policy that has as its focus the changes that education needs, the drastic reduction in taxation on households and businesses, which can come only through the rationalisation of the state and its needs, the decisive implementation of all the reforms necessary to stimulate competitiveness. Why, finally, it is shameful to classify Greece as the last among the countries of the European Union, the OECD and the Balkans in all the critical international indicators, to strengthen liquidity in the real economy, by making use of the available national and European resources, to remove the consequences of capital controls and the exclusion of households and businesses, and to substantially support the Greeks who are being tested by the crisis, with real criteria and emphasis on efficiency rather than micro-party targets. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget introduced by the current government. The damage to the economy and society ends here. The New Democracy, with the confidence and support of the Greeks, with concrete proposals and solutions to the deep and intense problems of our country, with national responsibility, knowledge and will soon take the task of bringing Greece back up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr George Bored, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, some time ago serious problems had arisen on the roof of the House and Nikos Voutsi had been forced to bring cranes, as you remember. I have my own version of the dangers that exist around the fall of the roof from what is sometimes heard here in this Chamber. And I'm not talking about the poems that are reported here at times. These are the most innocent, if you like, politically naive version of what is happening in Parliament. I'm talking about something else. There is a limit or there must be a limit to what is said here in the House. And I am referring to what is heard by responsible lips, as are the presumptions of the Chief of Police Vice-Population. Mr. Mitsotakis came here and said what, please? Mr. Mitsotakis said it is a transaction product the issue of the pension measure with the Prespecies Agreement. What does the Chief of Staff want to say? That we in here - leaving out of them on the other side of the transaction - are we responsible for the legalisation of such a transaction? And well, we're the personification of evil, you who vote the measure what are you doing? Do you also legalize such a transaction? What's that? Can I tell you something? patriotism is not civilization. As a great poet - prophet, and not by the hand of the hand of the House, Dionysius Solomon, said: National is what is true. And I wonder what Mr Mitsotakis means, that we have no right to defend our own truth, the one we see as the truth, namely that the Prespecies Agreement is in favour of national interest. Do you want a Greek fear of 'patriotism' - within introductory words patriotism - coming out on the tiles and shouting? We want an open, co-operation, a Balkan and region leader. Who's gonna take this right away? And with what right will it do, take us away the right to defend this position and speak of a transaction at the expense of national interest? It gives me a really big impression, I am in a hurry, I would say, which, on the part of the speakers of the Change Movement, I have heard of provoking on this issue or seeking compensation. We are talking about the lyric stone, where it is placed in the political spectrum. It is the right of everyone to sit where he thinks it is appropriate. We are not just talking about the Central Left - Central Right. We are talking about a morbid rhetoric, which has been used in the past by certain extremist forces who have declared overpatriots and have led to the mutilation of Cyprus and other national tragedies. I think it's the right of Officer Opposition and her Chief to want to change the agenda. To change the agenda. It is, of course, a little strange because it wants to change the agenda, take it from the economy and take it to a matter of nationalism, which will be handled for the purposes of inner-party political opposition. And I wonder: if things are as they are described by the Qualified Opposition, that is, they are so black in the economy and if their economic intention is so solid, why would she want to change the agenda? It is her right, too, I say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u101	You're helping now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u102	What are we doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u103	You're helping now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u104	Okay, don't get your mind tongue ahead of you. I'm complimenting you with the mentality. I say, however, that it is the right of the Officer to characterise the measures as a pretext. But it needs to be explained why it is voting on them. Does he maintain the impulse? That's a matter. You can't have the whole pie and the dog full, that is to say, the impulse to denounce as serious and responsible and vote for it! So what is the answer to this question? I say that the final judge is the Greek people. He will judge whether the measures are impulse or whether it is a relief and an analgesic, first on wounds that left a huge crisis beyond the capital. We in the province and the region, where our relationship with the world is personal - and, if you like, personally charged - can know what injuries the crisis has left in the world. And we can know it from personal experience. The Greek people will therefore judge whether it is an impulse or a relief to certain layers that have suffered enormous damage during the crisis. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is supposed to be for thinking - we say now - and it plays a pedagogical role. Since the election period is finally beginning in a way and because in 2019, the Chief of Staff Response will fall in and the election will be held, I would like to say that the elections are a higher institutional form of expression of popular will. But here, it is treated in a gaming way. We're betting on this two-month thing. It doesn't come true. Double the bet in the next two months. And we now come to the end of the four-year period to gather the whole bet, with a risk of losing it all. However, it is not a question of this, that is what a party will lose or what a party will win from this kind of process. The issue is where the country goes, where the country should go after the painful experience of the crisis, following the moral crisis and the social crisis that preceded the economic crisis, and if anyone draws conclusions from this painful experience, what they have to propose to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The 2019 State Budget is anti-grassrooted and class-oriented. It continues to deliver all previous and, in addition, further reduces overall funding to local and regional government, maintaining cuts to the dramatic levels of over 65%. In conjunction with the implementation of the reactionary 'CLIMATE' as a follow-up to 'COLICAT', the local and regional tentacles of the urban state are transformed into exterior taxing and taxing mechanisms in self-contributory and business units, where the funding for the operation of their services relating to people's needs will primarily come from the own resources, i.e. the tax evacuation of the people's families. The own resources of the municipalities from taxes and charges are projected to increase in 2019 by EUR 194 million, overcoming state funding. This means more taxes and less government funding. The size of the state budget is flawing government claims, that this budget is not cut, but is giving. Total funding for 2019 in relation to 2018 is reduced by EUR 862 million, reduced even in relation to the objectives of the medium-term programme by EUR 153 million. For municipalities, the CFP appears to be reduced by EUR 740 million and for regions by EUR 73 million. The reduction, based on the report, is attributed to the transfer of preferential allowances for 2019 to the OPEKA of EUR 740 million, and until this year the pre-financing amounted to EUR 885 million. Therefore, pre-school benefits are also being reduced. The "blooded surpluses" of the local government, which are planned as a budget objective and which will be charged to the public, amount to EUR 244 million. This means strengthening the entire grid of repressive and threatening measures by the government, by seizing accounts, blocking a tax register, threatening electronic auctions for debts of more than EUR 500 for poor people and municipalities and not big businesses that owe and escape legally. On the contrary, grants from the Public Investment Programme only reach EUR 1,27 billion, reduced by EUR 150 million compared to last year. They are crumbs in front of the increased needs of the municipalities for a school roof, nursery stations and other needs. Note that these increases will come from taxes and charges, i.e. compensation for services. The sums for Civil Protection in 2018 were EUR 135 million and for 2019 are EUR 146 million - that is, only EUR 11 million in addition - when the Prime Minister, following the tragic events in Matti and Mandra - reminds us of this - had promised funding for the General Secretariat for Civil Protection of EUR 500 million. But anywhere in the Ministry of Interior budget, this promise is not reflected, when, in addition, 80% of public schools and buildings remain uncontrolled and the incubation control has stopped since 2005. All of this as a challenge to the people can be understood. This is the memorial regularity promised by the government, which, of course, has nothing to do with the popular needs such as the anti-military, anti-nuclear, earthquake shielding of the country, infrastructure to support small and medium-sized farms, the use of water resources for cheap and sufficient drinking and irrigated water. Capitalist development does not meet with the need to protect the people's lives and property. The hierarchy of projects by the European Union, by the governments of independent colour, local or regional administrations, have a single criterion: the cost criterion - the capital benefit. But when it comes to the sanctity and loyalty of business groups, their competitiveness and their profits, it finds itself by magical means of billions of European, state funding, borrowing and other means. I will give you three examples of the capitalist development announced by the government - and the Greek Industrial Association also speaks, of course, - which have nothing to do with the people's needs. There are examples from Crete that are talking about the number of tourists in the years of the crisis, about unscrupulous profits for the "tour operator" and hoteliers, about sales, merges, takeovers of tourist infrastructure from multinationals. The wealth is unthinkable! Workers, however, are deprived of the right to holidays, they continue to take crumbs, without rights, with wages and allowances and with the circumvention of daily working time. Secondly, the new contract is ready for the new private airport in Kastelli Heraklion on order of the "tour operator" and hoteliers, which will surely ensure profits from the study, construction and management of it by the consortium of foreign and local monopolistic groups, through obsolete state and European funding. However, even the upgrading of the road network, the northern road axis, the cost of two billion euros, with the public-private partnership, with concessions to construction companies, with triple financing - private, state, borrowing - from a European investment bank, will be called upon to pay for it by means of tolls. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament's Memorandum of Understanding budget perpetuates the people's fundamental problems, even for essential needs, the functioning of municipalities and regions where staff shortages exist. It perpetuates the elasticisation of working relations, breaks the lives and rights of workers, and multiplys, by geometric progress, the accidents at work. We've had forty-three deaths and over sixty wounded only in the last four years. The JRC is voting against the 2019 budget as a socially unfair and deeply anti-grassy budget, highlighting the need for full funding of the municipalities and regions from the state budget, the permanentisation of all contractors and the recruitment of employees to cover basic structures and services of the municipalities related to the fulfilment of basic popular needs. The JRC opposes decentralisation and the reciprocity of key social areas such as health, education, welfare, which, apart from their logistics, devolves them into local administration, breaks their uniform character and strengthens their class differentiation. The JRC opposes the overthrow of labour relations, the marketing and privatisation of services and calls for a central, regional, local level of infrastructure and public protection for floods, fires, earthquakes and other disasters, water and air pollution and calls for a drastic increase in government spending on social policy and support for the people's families. With this line, the JRC stands against the budgets and the reactionary changes. With this position, the JRC seeks to organize the struggle. With this line will support ballots to claim popular problems, opposition to government and local authorities supporting reactionary overthrows and capitalist development. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from Marcopoulou High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague Panagiotis Squash has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are discussing the first budget which, after a decade, incorporates measures to relieve the Greek people, measures to reduce taxes and increase expenditure in favour of the social system. The draft State Budget for 2019 clearly captures the country's reintegration into normality, finally restoring it to the international economic system, achieving a strengthening of the Greek family's available income, supporting sustainable development and addressing targeted years of social protection deficits. We are building and strengthening the social state - the state at the service of the citizen - with permanent - non-opportunistic reduction in tax burdens, as I have said, and special attention to youth employment. Strong and clear samples of writing in all these areas have been given by this government and throughout the previous period, since January 2015 that took over the country's governance. We already have the application of 'one to one' to the public. A civil servant is retired, one of our fellow citizens is hired. We took it to 'five to one'. Five were gone, one was coming. We took it to 'three to one' and now to 'one to one'. The statements made by the Head of State of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, but also recently by Mr Koumoutsakos, are well known to take it back to 'five to one', because this is the philosophical policy that is being published. Let us also note the housing allowance that gives breath to vulnerable social groups, the full application of the transport equivalent to all the islands of the country, the reduction of HPAI, the reductions in the insurance contributions of free professions, the reduction of the tax on distributed profits, the "Help to Home", the subsidy of insurance contributions from young people in the country, access to health for insurers, school meals and much more. Or not? The country's budget performance has contributed to the implementation of this burden-reduction policy for the Greek people. This positive financial environment was created with the decisive involvement and consent of the Greek people who were as bad as any of the unwise policies of the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK. And, of course, this was achieved with the government of Alexis Tsipras at the wheel. And we're going on because there's still a lot to be done. In fact, when you brought the memorials that were poorer than 25% of the Greek people, when you took unemployment from 12% and ejected it to 27%, when you fired everything that was moving into the public sphere, when you sent the young scientists of the country abroad, what relief measures, like the ones mentioned above, did you take for the Greek people? Nothing at all. You were striving for the ultimate symposium of society, so that Tomsen wouldn't take your glory, as you said with disguised courage, and you were struggling for Gerun not to hold fast. But, along with the factual and quantitative characteristics of the 2019 preliminary draft budget, there are also qualitative ones. It develops culture and is substantially reconstituted after the years of the crisis. Greek creators and artists are included in the categories of citizens who were first and worst hit by the liberal monumental policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. With a Ministry of Culture, whose funds were empty, but in mind, we also tried to change the bad text and achieve it. To remind the resolution, at last, of the copyright and related rights law, so that creators would not become horrific in private companies operating as absolute rulers on their intellectual property, which the state, your governments, for decades, had left uncontrolled to exploit the creation of artists. And your governments - as I said again - watched indifferently from a distance. Really, when you say that you will give to individuals part of public health responsibility, and that education is understood? When you talk about private universities, do you think about the unresolved operation of a GNI, say? In your years, the Ministry of Culture, with abundant money from the incomes of the OPCW - now there is no longer - financed local ruffles and festivities for your constituencies and sponsored with millions of euros of trade unionist collectives without any coverage, with millions of euros. And you know what I'm addressing, because you're loading them with millions, and they didn't even have a statute, they didn't even have an elected Bureau. At the same time, you cut a grant and flew out of the Athens and Epidaurus Festival national sizes such as Spyros Evangelatos and the "Amphitheatre", the "Theatre" of Karolos Kun or the Theatre Organization of Cyprus. There are a lot of things I would like to mention, but time is forbidden. But remind me of the application of the online ticket to archaeological sites that smashed the receipts vertically. Really, why didn't you do it all these years? Innumerable artistic, spiritual structures were sponsored by this government. At the post of the association of high-ranking artists, which was the constituency of this Minister or MP, we find live artistic producers. There is a plan, a target for the reconstruction of culture after the years of the crisis, for investigating the relationship between children and young people with culture, for regional culture and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, 2019 will be a better year, with what has been achieved since 2015, with the exit from the memorials in 2018 and with the prosperous prospects that everyone recognizes. Dear Lords of Officerial Response, with this government, the economic sector is not your possible paper. You have lost against a state and resorted to what you know well: division, patriots and traitors. Stir the 'Prespes' and Eddie Rama. It's your last refuge - your old sieve art! - what you know very well, which you have done with great success at the "Macronesia", in prisons, in pursuits. That's where you came back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u109	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u110	Do not evade order, you men of order, because if you continue you must arrest yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u111	Well, I had you and I looked out for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you for having me. I've got you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the state did not fall on the rocks, as you anticipate. It's floating in calmer waters. The period of uncertainty is over and the best is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. I had some other in mind about the beginning of my speech, but my previous colleague has made me democratically, despite his anger, the complaint, I would like to highlight. To give an answer to what has happened in the Ministry of Culture, at least for my days, namely for the days of the New Democracy. Mr Colleague, you must know that the OPAP is not supervised by the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u115	Not anymore. We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u116	No, let go, because you said inaccurate targeted and disgusting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u117	We've had a lot more years in culture. Don't get angry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u118	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u119	Look, dialogue won't be like this. Mr. Javarra, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u120	You, because in hypocritically you have recorded very great successes, would be the most ideal to connect the theatre to politics, that is what your Chief and all of you in here do. That's what you're doing. So stop and let other views be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u121	I'm in hypocritical, others in hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Javarra, please stay in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u123	That kind of fascism I don't allow him. The fascism that seeks to rule out the opposite view and does not allow anyone who is provoked - I said - democratically to develop his views, he does not believe him by New Democracy, he does not believe by Mr Mitsotakis and he gives you, because you have actually written pages of glory both in history and in politics and in politics. Stop, then, and listen. In fact, many projects used by the Community programmes have been carried out on the days of the New Democracy. Personally, I have had the opportunity, the opportunity and the honour of having included in the NSRF nine hundred and twenty-five projects across Greece totalling EUR 850 million. Of course, it was reasonable to have done works - and I have done works - in my constituency too. Since you may not know what my constituency is, I inform you that it is Elias, which has the historical, cultural and national prerogative to be the area of Olympia, the one you have abandoned, the one to which nothing has been done for four years now. The greatest cultural crime you have committed, Mr Apollo, is that while we have given you the task of replacing and protecting the monument of Epicurean Apollo, i.e. the roof, with already approved expenditure and study, you have left it. It is clear from your negligence at the moment that Epicurios Apollo, the temple built by Ikinos immediately after the Parthenon and considered the Parthenon of the Peloponnese, is exposed to natural phenomena and is in danger of crumbling all the work that the Ministry of Culture has been doing for decades. That, of course, is not what you are answering. And you know why you're not answering? For a very simple reason: because this is the first time a democratically elected government has been using as its largest and most effective political product - and its weapon at the same time - the systematic lie. You say that this budget is the budget that brings the country back to normality. What regularity? In order to be normal, it should be more than anything reasonable. Unreasonable normality exists only in your dreams and even in your dreams. Because if we had actually returned to normality, the first thing that would have been achieved is to have returned to funding from the markets, which was the aim of the programmes and the so-called Memorandums. So why has this objective so far not been achieved, which is the core of normality? Because what you've been doing for four years is selling, as political products to good-faithed citizens, lies. Lies that you were supposed to bring us to heaven where everyone would have a decent wage and everyone would have an insurance cover, which would be at the pension levels of the period before 2009. You promised us that you would cancel the Memorandum Laws and delete the Memorandum with an article and a provision. You have led us to a falsely made beautiful situation, after the indignation of the citizens who dragged them into the squares, to use them as a means and instrument to conquer power as well. And you come here today and tell us that you have returned to normality. To the normality that you believe in, or to the normality of, free market, free competition and liberal democracy? Because for you, in this fundamental question: why are you so inconsistent with what you promised and what you finally managed to do, has your ideological ancestor Vladimir Ilich Lenin answered since 1922. So, then, he was asked a very simple question: “Why did you throw rabbits and rocks to take the tiny allies to the fight against fascism and now - in 1922 - lead to the execution of the Escarus and the Mensheviks?” And the answer from this great revolutionary, your ideological ancestor, was that this tells us that it is inconsistency. Well, yes, it is inconsistency and those who are surprised by this inconsistency are politically idiots. So stop, gentlemen, dealing with us here and with all those who criticize you and the whole people as politically idiots. After a hundred years, after three - four times that the world has changed within Europe and within the world you are not entitled to suck all these commons, all these aerials, all those words which are not mentioned but fantasies and dreams. Finally, land in reality, respect dialogue and democracy and leave the forefront of history. That is what people and logic demand from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. It is advisable to refer to Lenin those who have read it and not those who have met him from the "Structure".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u126	"Structure" is obviously read by you. I, therefore, read him from the “Selected Works of Lenin”, Knowledge publications, 1973.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Javarra, we're not making a statement of knowledge here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u128	With 360 drachmas per month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u129	Mr Karayannides, that also applies to you. The deposit of knowledge about Lenin is over. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the first positive budget is a reality after nine hard years, after nine hard years for which, of course, you have an absolute responsibility, because in 2009-2010, the country has been led to the rocks by your own governments, and this has the following imprint in society. I'll tell you two clues to be at least a little more modest. So they say the information from the European Union Households Income Survey and Living Conditions: How much did it lose from its income the poorest decimal point in the 5-year 2009-2014? He lost 56% of his income. You didn't make the poorer. You made it unthinkable for the poor to live. And you come now as honors of these people! How much did the middle class lose - I go to the sixth class - in this particular period of time? They lost 41.7% of their income. That's what you managed to do. How much did the employees lose in the same five years? They lost 38%, the self-employed 40.3%, the pensioners 32.5% of their income. And you come here to talk about pension cuts from this government? A little modesty would not be bad for you to use it. All of us who stayed in September and continued trying to understand that this risk was enormous, that we had conditions and powers that were superior to us, but our efforts on the Left did not want to record another glorious defeat, another defeat that we would simply tell our children after thirty years. We wanted to prove - and our presence in 2018 has been proven - that the Left in the difficult and when the game is not in fair terms, it will play it, trying to reverse the correlations and situations that exist. So this has happened today, in 2018. Having come out of the memorials to your great disappointment and not having held elections every year since 2016, 2017 and 2018, we are here today to have a positive budget. Can I give you an example of what we've achieved? The contract for hotel officials, the extension of which has been signed by the Minister of Labour and has become compulsory, has lifted the salary from EUR 511 to EUR 780. Do you know what that means to these people who are thousands? Do you know what the contracts signed by the Ministry of Labour mean, what changes have it made to the lives of those people who you condemn to take 580 euros, 420 euros, 340 euros with the subordinate wage? Do you know what that meant, what the Chief is ignoring you, that they're working black by extortion? This thing we're trying to change, and that's why we're proud. So let's go to three basic arguments. As far as the growth of the state is concerned, it would obviously help you not to have hospitals, so that everyone would go to the private sector and there would be no public schools and everyone would go to private schools. Except this plan was suspended in 2015. We cannot have basic social goods which are underrepresented by people who have to work in them. It's no different. If for you it is the growth of the state, the welfare state we want to build, say it in public. You must state publicly what you have tried to do with Mr Mitsotakis with redundancies in all versions of the public sector. Let's go to the VAT. We increased - he says - the VAT, we took him to 24%. It's half-truth and half-truth is always worse than lying. In March 2010 VAT increased from 19% to 21%. In July 2010 it increased and reached 23%. We're talking about four percentage points in one year. And the New Democracy dares...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u131	We didn't raise it. Don't mess with it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u132	The New Democracy was not a government at that time. That's right. However, the PASOK - I will also include PASOK, Democratic Incorporation, the Change Movement - all of us together - criticises that we have increased a percentage point in VAT, while in a year's time four points have increased it. Do you know what that means? If you bought something in the hundreds, you had to give another 5 euros to buy what you bought at a hundred. And there's no shame in this thing. So there is criticism of VAT. Let's go to overtax. I have a table, which I imagine you are not questioning, because it is from ELSTAT, and it says: 'Revenue to GDP'. I read it to you: '2010 41% GDP revenues, 2013 49% GDP revenues, 2017 48.1% GDP revenues'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u133	Towards GDP, not GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u134	What exactly do you mean to be overtaxed, to understand? What exactly do you mean when in the first quarter of 2018 the revenues on GDP range at 45.7%? They didn't grow. They were not dramatically reduced, obviously, but they did not increase. The overtaxation you find? I will close, because my time has already ended, speaking of a reckoning that Mr. Hatzidakis has done on Twitter and blames Mr. Janakopoulos for being a traitor because we will tell the European Union and the institutions what the Chief of New Democracy said here. You know, this isn't real. We're not meeting in a descent, where what we're talking about is secret from each other. I am informing Mr Hatzidakis, then, that I will personally inform the NATO Parliamentary Council that the Chief of Officerial Response described them as fraudulent twenty-seven leaders of NATO countries and that they were confronted with us, gave us the pensions to get us the name. So I will say this in public, so that people now know at the NATO Parliamentary Summit with whom people have to do in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Lejanes Elias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual debate on the national state budget is at stake every time in an economic debate, a debate which does not concern many people. Many people imagine that it is not their concern, because the way it looks at their ears and eyes is a technical debate and perhaps often unconscious. But, behind the numbers, man always hides, at least for us, the government here that wanted to give a humanitarian way to the rule of the country and to its economic and social life. The economic crisis - and this is something that the last citizen of this state can understand - has never been an extreme economic one. It has always been a permanent crisis of moral values. It was never a matter of economics to overvaluate medicines. It was never a question of economics overvaluing public works. It was never a matter of economics to channel to 4% of the applicants of 50% of the European Union and the ILO's financial instruments, excluding honest entrepreneurs. All of these were matters that had as their basis, unfortunately, the moral decency, the immoral practices of the past. That is why we firmly believe that this government has a maximum objective that is still in place in the next few years. This objective must be the full reintroduction of moral values at the heart of society, so that the latter understands that here this economic crisis, which we are overcoming and whose ends we are living today, will relive it in the future, even if they give us all the public foreign debt of the country. Because it was immoral practices that led to the major public deficits in the state budget and forced the state to borrow billions of billions annually, and at some point we came to the break of Greek society and the Greek economy and the weakest of our fellow people to suffer social, economic and moral squabble. But since, in the days that this debate is taking place, I have heard colleagues from the Opposition - Major, Elassona - claim that we are not well aware of the economy and that these are the always-known ones, who must come as other saviors to save the country from our supposed economic, social 'job', to recall that the primary cause for the very fall of the Greek economy - which, as I said, always had a deeper cause for immoral practices - was public deficits. The 2010 deficit was therefore EUR 24 billion. The 2011 deficit was EUR 19 billion. The 2012 deficit was EUR 19.4 billion. The 2013 deficit was EUR 22 billion. The 2014 deficit was EUR 6.5 billion. In other words, every year those who claim to save the country would create even greater needs for borrowing, deepened the crisis, and, of course, created the supposed need to "intensive" these weakest of our fellow people by reducing the gross national product, the Greek economy, that is, by 25%, by reducing wages and pensions and by driving a million thousand fellow people into the "Group of Unemployment". And "I of the miracle!" We who do not know financially in 2016 achieve the first budget - yes, the first budget! - post-war Greece, with the exception of 1971, which had no deficits, which no longer created deficits, which had no need for borrowing, which no longer needed to be further materialized. In 2017, as well as in 2018, this year, it is still one such year and in 2019 it is due another year of surplus not primary but general government budget, that is, it will no longer produce deficits anymore. And what else is crucial, which this government has achieved here? Some people say that a balanced economy - and we see that from the European Union's economies - has as a key element the balance between exports and imports, that is, the money inflow into the Greek economy and the money outflow from the Greek economy, in simple terms. And when we received the country's governance in January 2015 - elements of December 2014 are those - this mixture was 15% exports, 85% imports, as far as GDP is concerned. Today there are 35% exports and 65% imports. The average of the European Community is 45%. Apparently, we still have a way to go. However, we have certainly achieved something very important, the principle of balance between the Greek economy which does not produce deficits, which balances its production with primary and secondary production and exports, and which ceases to be just a service economy. What else is extremely important? I am constantly listening to the argument - and unfortunately also to the Chief of Officerial Response - that we have added our weight to the Greek economy and to the public debt, when it says 80, when it says 90, when it says 100. Yes, sir! So the official public debt bulletin of the 2014 Ministry of Finance - I imagine we were not there - states that the public debt was EUR 324,127,000. The same official bulletin for 31-12-2015, one year later, reports a public debt of 321,007,000 euros, i.e. 4 billion euros below. Who added? What did we add? Not only did we add but we removed. And you know where the money we borrowed went, which wasn't 86 after all, was 65? Do you know where they went? In paying loans you had received with 4% and 3.5% and 4.5%, with robbery interest rates. Do you know how much we got that money? With 0.9%, not even 1% interest rate. We replaced the robbery loans that you had received by lending 65 billion euros from the Greek Government with less than 1%, to breathe the Greek economy, so that we could pay less, so that we could mature that treaty and be able to negotiate and reduce the interest rate and the annual instalments and be able to have room for social policy. How else could it be? What else are they telling us? 'You cannot achieve growth'. What's the index of growth? Is it not the increase in gross domestic product, GDP, money in circulation, that is, money produced either by private individuals or by businesses or by the public? Isn't that the indicator? Yes, let's see. Well, yours, the opposition, we saw them, 25% down, 60 billion euros down. Poverty everywhere! Now we're rich? No, obviously, because we - sadly for you - are circulating and watching. But there is something that is extremely important. In 2007, for the first time, the country's GDP increased by EUR 3.5 billion. I won't talk about percentages, people understand real money. It has therefore increased by EUR 3.5 billion and this year by EUR 5 billion, that is, we have added to two years of EUR 8.5 billion. It is intended that next year we will add another EUR 6 billion. We are restoring a step - step by step what you have lost from the Greek economy. What you have brought, the perpendicularity of the Greek economy, is a step-by-step step and, in fact, in a balanced way, not with services, not with imports, not with sea-lovings that were inflaming the Greek economy and collapsed sharply but with real capital movements. And some say, "but, well, capital movements without investments are done?" Last year, then, there were 3.5 billion direct investment and this year EUR 6 billion direct investment. In fact, one of the priority sectors was the transport sector. But they're missing something. Because they keep talking about economy, but they talk about taxation and generally, because the numbers don't help them, having themselves given the infallibility of the economic "Pope", escapes them the most basic element. Do you know how many more companies have closed off from those that opened up over your days? They closed a hundred and thirty thousand businesses more than those that opened in 2010-2014. The corresponding figure for the period 2015-2017 do you know what it shows? In addition, thirty thousand businesses, that is, thirty thousand more than those closed down. Who knows the real economy best? Not from those diplomas that you are imagining, in practice, on the sidewalk, on the daily life of the colleague, who is crying, because he really has no payment at the end of the month, and that is why we are coming either with allowances or with arrangements to help him. Who knows the economy better after all? Some who present the degrees and achieve failures? Some who have created unfair practices, bringing the deficits that have led to the needs of borrowing, which have inflamed the Greek economy with sea loans and, in the end, have we come up with where we have come up or are we trying to refocus on the very focus, the core of thought, the consciousness, the daily life of people, that at last the return of moral values is a one-way street? Gentlemen of the Opposition, be aware that what you can never succeed is to cut off your evil self above you. Your evil self reflects what you unfortunately promise of the future, although if you ever come to power, although this will never happen in my view. You really promise your dreams. But your dreams are a nightmare for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, it was heard in yesterday's sitting that the 2019 budget is the first memorial budget. So I ask: have the terms of the memoranda been observed? The terms of the memorials have been deleted? The debt has been served and deleted and we no longer have any obligation in every direction in which we should? If this happens, there is no doubt that everything will be well in the future. Unfortunately, however, the reality I fear is different. I will not go much further than the proposed budget. First of all, we say that the Katorugalou law has refined our insurance system. Very good. Is he relieved? It's a question. Why? We see that there is a reduction in pension expenditure of EUR 275 million from what is stated in the plan. How the reduction in this expenditure is explained in relation to the previous year in which pension expenditure was increased. The main and secondary old pensions were cleared up, retroactively and therefore the demands of pensioners were met. And I ask: after the Karugalu law - which is why I have not received any answer until now - what percentage of new pensions has been cleared up? What percentage of new pensions was redefined? As far as I am concerned, only the part of the temporary pension is paid and all the rest is postponed for the future. If that is the case, then we have a huge problem. And you know what the problem is? If we stay two, three, four years in the temporary pension and show that EKKA or other insurance institutions have a surplus of the revenue they receive, then we are simply transferring for the next year the financial problem of the insurance fund, and furthermore we are shifting the problem of tax on retroactives, although at any rate they are being paid. These haven't been taxed yet. Since we do not have the final pensions to be paid, then of course we can pay social dividends or whatever comes from the surplus and the reserves of the insurance funds. It is an issue that has to be addressed at some point because we cannot say that we have a new insurance system - the Democratic Response calls for the abolition of the Katrugalo Law - which is really well-founded when in this new insurance system, which has been in force since May 2016, it has not been cleared - and I am sure that - no definitive pensioner pensioner who submitted since the day after the adoption of this law. As far as the subsidiary is concerned, we have forgotten them! There is no subsidiary in Greece anymore, so we do not need to go any further. So what were we redeeming? Nothing. The question of the insurance funds will be raised in the next few years. So this budget can be developmental? No, because it accumulates obligations for the future and does not solve problems. Second point, which concerns the protection of the weak, is that in a few days the law on the protection of first residence expires and the government has not yet expressed its intention of extending or bringing about a new law on its protection. Everything is supposed to be discussed with the institutions. It only sounds like the electronic auctions will be accelerated. It only sounds that the banks pressurize to call the regulators for adjustment. They have named all our fellow citizens'strategic malpractices' and so everything goes well and we will grow up, since the banks will acquire the funds they need by collecting from the weak! I would like to remind you this: the government in November 2015 when it recapitulated the banks also gave a "gift". So what did he say? He said in the same law, to Law No.4354, that he will contribute, the State will take part in the instalments of housing loans, those who have been subject to law protection and cannot respond to the doses that the court determines, on the basis of their family and financial situation, in order to save their home. They were called November 2015. In December 2015, I tabled a timely question asking to know when this state obligation will be specified to begin to relieve themselves. A ministerial decision came out, 100 million euros were written for 2017 and 100 million for 2018. Nothing was disbursed, all of it returned to the State budget and dissuaded this arrangement for borrowers, since there was no possibility of the State’s making a contribution, they did not appeal to the protection of the law. So today, if we consider these 200 million which have been returned to the budget as unallocated - I have the figures here and I will put them down for the Minutes - they may be at risk of thirty to forty thousand families who could have been subject to this arrangement, set up their housing loan, strengthened by the state and all that zero. This year, with the budget, it says, 50 million as a social provision to the Ministry of Development and Economy and is supposed to be made available. We do not know, however, whether the beneficiaries will be given. What for? The newer legislation introduced by the government which the beneficiaries do not even know if they are entitled to. The criteria have not yet been set under a new ministerial decision, and I therefore fear that these too at the end of 2019 will be said to have been returned to the budget and not made available. I wanted to give these two examples, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the budget and say one more thing. Can we talk about a development budget, when public investment is within it only minimally, but when we do not strengthen the average Greek, our average fellowman survives in order to be able to create production conditions and contribute to the economy? I think not. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Simeon Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after a decade of crisis, recession, poverty, the dismantling of the social state, poorer sections of the population, the country and the economy seem to open up a new chapter. Today, after many years of economic crisis and stagnation, years of loss of GDP, poverty in society, economic recovery seems to be consolidated. The 2019 budget, in a persuasive sense of what is supported by the Opposition, also has an obvious social footprint, while at the same time focusing on strengthening the real economy while supporting actions of a social nature. The forecast for real growth of the economy by 2.5% - the forecast by the Commission and the International Monetary Fund was 2.1% - is accompanied by permanent positive measures, as well as the additional savings of EUR 1.8 billion for the real economy from the non-cutting of pensions for 2019. As the sizes of the Greek economy are improved, our fiscal policy is gradually turning towards a new mix, a mixture aimed at strengthening households' available income, supporting sustainable development and dealing with chronic social protection deficits. The opposition, of course, doubts what has happened. It is trying to dismantle the course so far and, above all, to dismantle the positive perspective for the country. He speaks, as he spoke yesterday, of the government of delusion and unnecessarily austerity. He is talking about a budget of misery and disappointment for society, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy described yesterday. It attempts to clear up by mentioning two four-year-olds of the country's governance within the crisis. The first four years were from governments of New Democracy and PASOK, either by themselves or jointly. The second four years by SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Who's talking, ladies and gentlemen? It speaks of the four-year New Democracy - PASOK, during which unemployment went from 9% to 28%. The debt was up from 125% to 180% of GDP. 65 billion measures were adopted to make a financial adjustment of 27 billion. It is the four years that the country has lost 27% of its GDP, the Greeks have lost 36% of their income, labour rights have disappeared. The minimum wage was reduced by 22% for all young people by 32%. It is the four years that young people have left the country, the four years that pensions and wages have been oppressed. Who does the Civic Opposition and Opposition speak in general? He talks about the four-year-old SYRIZA - ANEL, during which the country came out of the memorandum, they don't want to. Unemployment has declined from 28% to 18.6% so far and we continue, with the provision of 18.1% for 2019, as reflected in the budget. In our four years, the social state began building up with the strengthening of primary health, with free access to health for all uninsured, with school meals that faced child poverty, with the child's allowance, with the social solidarity allowance, with the transport equivalent for the islands, with the extra places for nursery stations, with the recruitment of teachers to strengthen education and with 3 billion other positive measures budgetd by 2020. They are talking about the four years that we have returned to growth, which the country has regained credibility within and outside the borders, in the four years that the insurance has been sustainable, but also in the four years that has been regulated by a significant part of the country's debt. Yesterday he said something about this last one, about the country's debt regulation, the Civic Opposition. The rapporteur told us: 'The debt arrangement was actually made in 2012'. What does he mean and what do they keep talking about? That the debt arrangement took place with the PSI. But the more they say it, the more they get the answer. They say that with the bond haircut - that was the PSI - the country has been reduced by many dozens of billions of euros. But what is the truth? The truth is that at the same time as they celebrated this relief through the PSI, the insurance funds lost EUR 16.2 billion, a direct risk to their locks. We have borrowed another EUR 11.3 billion for the debt repurchasing. We have also borrowed 4.5 billion for the provision of EFSF bonds to the insurance funds. We borrowed EUR 11.9 billion to cover the 2012 budget deficits. In addition, 1.9 billion was paid for the payment of public obligations. In particular, the four systemic Greek banks lost 28.25 billion euros of their capital, lost 75% of the value of their bonds. Overall, the Greek banking system lost 37.7 billion euros. And, of course, after the PSI, the banks had to be recapitalised by issuing a new debt of EUR 40.5 billion. And don't ask who says that. I'm not talking about it. They are said by the Bank of Greece's report on the bank recapitalisation in December 2012. On the fifth page there is the relevant analytical table. I'm tabling him again in the Minutes, so you can study him. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon (Macis) Ballis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the Opposition beyond its false allegations has a proposal to present to the Greek people for the future of the country. It promises a brave reduction in taxation from the first year, a reduction in insurance contributions, a 20% reduction for all, a reduction in import taxes, a tax incentive to businesses, debt arrangements and all that it considers to be a promised economic and social paradise, in fact withholding another hell for society. Because in the simple question of how to fund everything that the rapporteur of the New Democracy has presented to us yesterday, when he is in fact committed to respecting commitments and expenditure, he responds innocently: 'With the primary surpluses that will result from growth'. In fact, from growth you are counting on surplus production, because in other things you are used to us, and most importantly, your Chief is confessing. He says Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis in answer to a question Member of the New Democracy, here in Parliament in November 2013: "The size of the state was one of the main reasons why the country went bankrupt". Moreover, ‘the decline in the public sector was the main reason why the country achieved a primary surplus’. Remember that, too. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is the answer Mr Mitsotakis had then given to the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon (Macis) Ballis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What else did he say to us yesterday - to finish - the rapporteur of the New Democracy? That the government is sinking into the inconvenience, scandals and appointments of its own children. Only for family rule didn't blame us. You know, ladies and gentlemen, at the Officerial Response, he was not the director of the political office of Tsipras who appointed his son, his nephew, his brother-in-law or his co-chairman at the boards of various public companies, or in general secretariats or in special positions of public sector companies at the time. Your past and, above all, the growing right-wing spread of your present do not convince the Greek people. Citizens no longer trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u142	Before moving on to my general political position on the budget, which can only be general and not specific, a role taken by the rapporteur-general, the speakers and the sectoral directors of my resignation and beyond the short time available to us, I would like to give an answer to the Minister who previously left, Mr Mavragans, when he mentioned all of this to us, he said, 'We have finally improved the standard of living of the Greek people'. Let me just ask him this question, since we come from the same region. Why then, Minister, has the debt been increased, the debts of every person in our region since 2014 by 61%? Do you consider this an improvement to the standard of living of the Greek people and society? The second thing I would like to stress - and I would like to point out to the House - is that the Minister of Education, through this Step: I do not know whether you are aware that this week at the Democritus University of Thrace and in particular at the Legal School there is an uproot, a reaction, and I think it is right to say that a new legal School in Patras is a decision that we are opposed to, but that if you want to do so with arguments, it is downgrading a university which, both internally and abroad, has had great successes, such as the Legal School of the University of Thrace. And the question is: What necessity and feasibility requires the establishment of such a school that is not even linked to what you have said or planned here in plenary, with production, with research, etc.Huh? Because if you really want to link education to production, ladies and gentlemen, then without moving localistly - away from localistic perceptions and I have made it clear - why is it that the Agricultural University - and it is not just you and my own governments - did not transfer it to Aliarto, which is its natural headquarters, where it has facilities, which has its own land, property, which can do research, production, education, if you really wish to give further impetus to university education? I now come to the question, and I will start with what the Prime Minister is used to say to our leader "you have given me all". So all of us have been given by your President, the Prime Minister, saying that he rules the place only three months - today four - after August. I would remind you that you've been ruling forty-four months, if you don't remember. Because if you do not govern forty-four months, then I am addressing Mr Stakoura, Mr Kyriazides and the New Democracy side and my President to tell him: I denounce you a New Democracy. Why? Because in 2014 after the elections - when you took over the government in 2015 - you were government, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you did not do what you promised the Greek people! In other words, you did not abolish the anti-government laws, you did not rip the Memorandum, you did not restore the salary to 750 euros, Mr. Staikoura, as promised in 2014, you did not abolish HISFIA, Mr. Stakoura! You brought the capital controls, you shut down the banks, you sold the airports and the 'pool of anxiety', you were not government in '15, we were! So I denounce the New Democracy. So you, in the New Democracy, did all this, while other things you promised end 2014! Why? You, of course, have forgotten, gentlemen, that you had the slogan - so I think - 'no house in the hands of a banker' and the 'do not pay the toll' movement! You were blocking the streets, gentlemen of the New Democracy! Why did you forget that and now you are not following the people? Of course hypocrisy has both limits and you are trying, by making a general political position, so on the budget, which I do not have the moral right to say that you do not vote against, because it is like throwing the government, I have the political right to say to you to react. In this sense, the debate on the budget is intended: to inform the people who go to the country and what each one of us thinks. However, I think that in a top annual parliamentary procedure, such as the debate and the vote in Parliament, if this is not the second objective of having a real real debate with an exchange of views, and we too can change something on our part, but you - which is not accepted when we move into a political environment of constant deepening, confrontation and confrontation - this objective of knowing the parliamentary procedure is not achieved with this debate, and in that sense I think in these years I have served from various chairmen's seats in this House that we need to change the way to debate this parliamentary procedure. You are, therefore, presenting the reformists over the last few years. You're pretending to help the weak. You represent the socially sensitive, but I must remind you that in recent years: the debt has increased by 21 billion, wages have decreased, poverty has spread, that we have overtaxation that has dissolved society. You constantly resort to compulsion in a frustrated society. You handle national issues in a dangerous and political way. You create new deadlocks in the country with irresponsible responsibility, opening new issues. You create constructions and scandals to shift the political agenda. You are fans - I cannot all say, but you are obviously drifting away - of adversity, discord, demagogue and regression. We, for our part, propose to the Greek people a realistic hope with responsibility and truth, and these forces will collide in the upcoming elections, the forces of reason, the forces that will offer political and economic stability, which will provide prosperity with all the others who want backwardness, because we have an obligation to work with this aim and with a new perspective for the new generation, for our children. We owe it! For you, however, your political rescue is a priority and you do everything you can to keep in power. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the President of the New Democracy, updated the basic principles of our prolongation, the philosophy of its founder, i.e. honesty, consistency, truth, asked for a contract of truth with the Greek people. We - and so we will move tomorrow, when the Greek people vote will enable us to govern the country - to move in the area as strong as possible and not as desirable and unsatisfactory, not demagogy and populism. In my view, it is the last budget that you are bringing to Parliament and to your record that the first three years of your life have imposed on you. Let me remind you again of a political saying of a great political man in our country 'when you do not agree with something or when they force you to do something to which you disagree, you leave politics'. You didn't leave, the Greek people will leave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the fourth budget in order to be submitted by our Government, but it is the first of a new era, a era without memoranda. First of all, it comes to exploit what was founded in the previous period within the framework of the 2015-2018 adaptation, stability, credibility, the positive figure in development and social policy. It is also coming to emphatically eliminate the consequences of the restrictive policies and subordination implemented since 2010. This ends a downward cycle that has led the country to growing unemployment, reductions in incomes and comitology. The restrictive policy mix implemented in the previous budgets has had the known consequences, which it is good to remember, not to compare ourselves with the worst, but to know what we have escaped, to know what the fate that was reserved for the Greek society and the economy was. More specifically, 25% of GDP is lost. A huge unemployment rate. 2013 was 27.5%. At the same time, average wages were reduced by 17%. Loss of 65.5% of investment in 2008-2014. Decrease the final domestic demand by 6.5%, between 2008-2014 and a decrease in household income by 7.5% in the first two Memorandums. This budget, therefore, after a positive and definitive closure of the financial adjustment as reflected in the previous financial facility agreement by the institutions, marks the country's reintegration into the international financial system and instigates the gradual shift in budgetary policy from the multiannual adjustment to the rationalised expansion. As the sizes of the Greek economy are constantly improving, fiscal policy must and must gradually turn into a new mix which has the following three main objectives: to strengthen households' available incomes, to support sustainable and alternative growth, to strengthen the social state. The current budget that we are spending in 2018 is already being closed with a surplus of 4.2%, thus distributing a social dividend of about 1 billion. The objectives of the primary surplus are repeatedly overcome, which gives us the necessary financial space - that is, it gives us certainty - so that we can implement development and social protection policies. The over-performance of the surplus is due to three basic things that also apply to the next budget, regardless of whether it evades from the previous ones. First of all, it is because of the pragmatic structure of the budget that we tabled last year. Secondly, it is because we have run him honestly and usefully, with self-renunciation and also with inspiration in his difficult elements. The third element is that we had adopted targeted policies in the adventurous budget, which had escaped a formal management and aimed at transforming the Greek economy, although the margins were narrow and limited due to the budgetary adjustment. We have therefore achieved self-evidentness in other cases, which are the implementation of each budget, and even with an increased success, but which had never been achieved in the past, and contrary to the previous governments of New Democracy and PASOK, which in all the budgets, not only fell out, but were dramatically out. However, they have always had a stable objective in these budgets: reductions in workers' incomes, violations of social rights and the divestment of public wealth. I would remind you that this was even the case in years when the agreed surpluses were low or very small, of the order of 0.5% or 1% or 1.5%. Imagine what was left of us for years, such as those that we recently had, where surpluses were agreed at a level of 4.5%. So think what he's waiting for! The surplus we have already achieved, and as we do every year, contributes significantly to a very crucial factor for us, which is the support of the people in our political plan to get out of the crisis. The development dimension of the targeting of surpluses and of the budget is, of course, a constant request for us and in 2019, we believe it is a milestone year in this perspective. I would like to say briefly some positive speeches concerning the 2019 budget and are particularly important and respond to the political plan that we have announced many years ago, but now, for the first time, we have the possibility of starting to implement. 'Help at home'. It's about three thousand workers. Special treatment. Recruitment of four thousand five hundred teachers and qualified staff. Rental subsidy. Redefinition of the respective action that had been included in earlier interventions. Reduction of insurance contributions. The measure concerns freelance professionals, self-employed farmers, and in particular the reduction of the main rate of insurance by 1/3 and the application of a minimum income base for subsidiary insurance and one-off benefit. Youth insurance premium. The measure concerns, in particular, young people aged twenty-four years. Reduction of HISBIA. Important intervention, which for the people's neighbourhoods is 30% this year and over the year will be at the level of 50%. Reduction of income tax on legal persons. Reduction in the taxation of distributed profits. I mentioned some important examples that exacerbate our narrative that from 2019 we will have new economic data and new possibilities for a new real era for our country. We are therefore relying on the good example of the previous budgets, we continue, by expanding the prospects for the growth of the Greek economy and setting out a new virtuous cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget that we are discussing today is expeditious. It is, of course, reasoned expansionary, balanced and realistic. It is the plan that enshrines the exit from the memoranda and the comitology in our country. It's validation of the exit from the crisis. We are aiming at credibility, which already restores investors' confidence in 2019, a landmark year for the recovery of the Greek economy. We come out of the crisis with society upright, with optimism and faith in the forces of work and creation. The 2019 State Budget is the first crucial step towards changing the budget policy mix towards strengthening economic activity and social cohesion. The reductions in taxes and social security contributions, the increase in the minimum wage and the strengthening of the wages of workers legislated in this budget will not be possible, without the financial performance of the last three years, but also the constant support and sacrifices of the Greek people. You will allow me to finish with something that shows the self-renunciation with which we are fighting and believe in the climate change of the Greek economy and the exit from the crisis. In 2016, I proposed to the government's programme statements - and this concerns my region, which is why I am saying, I have this satisfaction - that we receive a 40% household discount programme for electricity in western Macedonia. In the 2018 budget we had the luck and political responsibility of this thing to adopt it, of Western Macedonia's consumers to the domestic electricity tariffs in western Macedonia to pay 40% less on the electricity bill. In this 2019 budget, I am pleased to repeat that, because our commitment is a given one, ladies and gentlemen, it is a small example of the possibilities that this government has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Sahinidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. We have already heard the Deputy Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Mavragani, at the beginning of his introduction, referring to a national state budget. He's not a state, he's not a national. It's a budget for bankers and loan sharks. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue and gives rise to the entry of additional appropriations on the lines which You are recovering and you have made a clear contribution to a subsidy policy. All benefits of any kind for any disease. Since you and your predecessors have reached the Greek people in this situation, you have economically and morally impoverished the Greek people, you come to take advantage of their pain and needs, presenting the self-evident things that apply in most countries as social benefits and as a social policy. Since you, like your predecessors, have bruised, literally and transported the blood of the Greek people, you celebrate any minimum provision you now come to vote on, returning a small piece to the Greek citizens. Of course you're celebrating if you're for the fairs! You have lost your respect as a country worldwide, you, the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état, and your prospective successors, the next coup d'état that will emerge with New Democracy - PASOK - ELIA - Change, Change of VET and everything else there is! You've become the puppets, the carpeters of the bankers and loan sharks. You celebrate the retrospectives you voted for a while ago. We were the only party to vote for 'partners' and we were accused of both you and the press. Why? Did you forget that from the Step of plenary your co-pilot had called thieves the government of 2012, which he had stolen, and that you come back 50%? I had then asked the Minister: When you return 50% of the stolen ones and you retain the remaining 50%, what are you, scramblers? Retroactive Efficiency. You told us that there would be no reductions in pensions. Of course it is not going to happen, since the reduction in insurance contributions, which you have voted on again, would also be a real reduction for this reduction with you, if it were a real reduction. However, since this is directly linked to remuneration, you do not need to make pension reductions. If you could remove the remuneration, it would be acceptable. Tell me and explain this to me. One, like me from the free-professional class, will he get the money he's paid for over the last twenty-five years? There's no such thing as that at all. You are also celebrating the payments you will give these days to farmers for the natural disasters they have suffered. Really? What about the money they pay each year for their production insurance? Is the money that you deserve, and what do you demand from them, thank you? And here I'm going to use an example I read in the press yesterday. It's like you're telling us that I'm involved in a car accident, and when the insurer comes over to my check for the compensation, I'm gonna have to get him out, make him the table, take him out to the bushes, because he did the self-evident thing. That's exactly what you do. Say the truth to the Greek people at last. Tell the Greek people why you financed the rotten banking system, because you did not state the banks that should belong exclusively to the Greek people. You have created a weakened banking system, which you and your predecessors have supported and funded with EUR 64 billion. Today, this banking system has EUR 120 billion less deposits. Explain to the Greek people why you are selling out, because you grant the Greek public property for crumbs. Explain unemployment. You are lying about falling unemployment because more than five hundred thousand young scientists have emigrated abroad and another four hundred thousand people who had no specialty. I mean, we're talking about about a million people. Around 10% of Greece's population has emigrated and you tell us that the unemployment rate has fallen. Add them, to see how much unemployment has risen, along with the semi-employment that you have made a lifestyle for workers. Explain the course of control you have exercised for lists and for offshore companies. In fact, some time ago, they had the courage of parliamentarians from the past and of the co-government and officer of the opposition to refer to the lists, such as the Borgians list, etc. You have said several times that a number of fines have been established. It's not about how much you've confirmed. You need to go out and tell us how much you have arrested and where the check is in relation to offshore companies and the lists. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Finally, I shall end, Mr President, by simple numbers, to the Greek people how we can get out of the memoranda. When we entered, we owed, as you say, and according to your own figures, 128% of GDP and 320 billion euros. Today, when you say that we came out of the memos, we owe 180% of GDP and 335 billion euros. I mean, it's like you're telling me that I've taken a 10 million euro loan, and after ten years my loan has reached 15 or 20 million euros and I'm on a good path, on a good development. Who are you kidding? Who are you working for? In the eight years of 2034 to 2041, the obligations you have all signed will exceed 11 billion euros, only for the repayment of debts to the ESM and the bilateral loans to the first Memorandum. While you are talking about dividends and social allowances, your bosses are squeezing your finger for further reforms, i.e. more cuts and taxes. You're talking about growth. The total value of the assets of Greek households after the eight years of austerity has been reduced by 498 billion euros. If that is what you call 'development', we call 'irreversification'. In closing, all of the previous ones accused each other, as if you didn't rule all these years. After the Postmopulation our homeland had such a great need for salvation, he came to save us - within many introductorys - "national ruler" Konstantinos Karamanlis and followed by George Rallis. After he also saved us, he came to save us by Andreas Papandreou, Xenophon Zolotas, Constantine Mitsotakis, the elder, Constantine Simitis, Kostas Karamanlis, Papandreou, Pikrammenos, Samaras and Tsipras. Oh, no! If you want the country to be saved, there is a unique solution: National government with the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my humility had told the Committee on Security and Defence Policy that it had come to play the role of the hailed cricket of history, with the constant references, the self-esteeming prophecies that were ultimately unconfirmed. Now, after hail, it's dangerous too. She's incapable even of the role of a cricket. The Greek people have to choose with concrete elements and with a certain perspective whether we will go forward or whether we will go back, whether we will go forward with specific measurable targets and with the wind of hope, citizens' faith in the cleanliness and honesty of the non-Portuguese, the people who came here without being professional politicians, to represent the weak social groups, the unemployed, the homeless, the needy, the weak, all those social groups affected by the monumental cannibalism. Or, then, we will move on or come back - there is no other option - in the plaque, in the snatch, in the misagent and in the remula. We are not taking measures, you say: 'You are an analgesic'. We are taking measures, you say: 'You are expatriates'. It didn't work. Then you say to us: 'You will not go out on the market'. Euclid Tsakalotos told you to put a bet on the market, and when we're on the market, you should come over and apologize, because we went to the market. That doesn't work either. You've been over it. Then when you saw that nothing works, because your paint doesn't pass, it doesn't touch, it does not sensitize the world - and say what the polls want - then you turned it over to the café. You said, in other words, that the non-reduction of pensions - which you voted for, but - we exchanged it with the Macedonian. The gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity! Your insanity is our best sponsor, sponsor, and tomorrow's gathering in Thessaloniki. In addition, following the reports by the President of the Civil Liberation Officer, Mr. "Kyriakos Georgiadis", has evolved from a political event of SYRIZA, to a peaceful rally on democracy and human rights, against extreme right, intolerance and darkness. We call tomorrow at 19.30' in Alexandria Sports Methora the patriots, the democrats, the progressive citizens of Thessaloniki and Macedonia to be there and send a message that Thessaloniki does not characterise it as darkness, dominance, mold and fossils of the past, gojamanids, tricycles and pins. Despite any critical points on our work, our mistakes, our weaknesses, the non-professionals of politics, do you understand what the priority is, what is the dominant risk and the dominant dilemma: Are we going in front of SYRIZA and Tsipras or go back where we were left with bankruptcy, not only economic but political, moral, cultural? This attempted anti-democratic crescendo of a minimal minority of graphics and people of the political background, this peculiar face control of the anti-concentrations does not characterise my city, our city, Thessaloniki. It characterizes the underground paths to the right and the right and their incubating relationships. They dared to speak of an unwanted Tsipras against the model of Prime Minister of September and the PMC, their ministers and escorts up to Thessaloniki, of course. This model we experienced. We're here to overthrow it. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] We adopted the Prime Minister's Office, a planning and implementation centre. And he's the one you're saying, the unwanted Tsipras, who made the metro from an anecdotes, visible, completed work at the end of 2019. It is him and SYRIZA who left the camps of Pavlos Mela and Kodra to the citizens of Thessaloniki and the terms and studies are already being designed to build on the preserved buildings left there, the Museum of National Resistance and the Museum of Pontian Hellenism. It is this government that gave the twenty - seven acres to the PAOK court to stop the fairy tale, which forty years have been working and falsifying the world. It is this government that broke OSTH's abscess, the 2.5 billion distributed to PASOK and New Democracy's close shareholders. It is this government that gave priority to my Thessaloniki, to our Thessaloniki, which is the capital of unemployment for young people and women, the eight months in the municipalities, to deal, as far as possible, with the problem of unemployment, along with the two hundred metro workers who became two thousand, together with the TAP. That's enough? No, it's not enough. It takes a lot more. It is this government and Andreas Xanthos and Paul Paulakis, who, after fifty years, started the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. These are the unwanted. My Thessaloniki, our Thessaloniki, is the European big city, the capital in the Balkans as a centre of culture, the open modern multicultural city, open to artistic streams, innovative knowledge, innovations. It is the open hospitable city of solidarity and the open hug for every refugee, for every needy and weak man, the city of Dinos Christianopoulos, Maronitis, Hurmousiadis, Nikiforos Papandreou, Manolis Andronikos, the city of Mimi Fatouros, Nikos Papazoglou, Socrates Malama. This is the open European multicultural Thessaloniki, which an extreme, minimal minority is trying to cling to the retina that is a point of reference for extreme right and fascism. It came - and this is what I am closing down, Mr President - a very interesting survey today. He asked: "Who would you welcome from the two political leaders at the Christmas table, Tsipras or Mitsotakis?" First of all, we must say that Christmas is not going to happen. My friend Makis Vorides, played and lost, said we'd be abolishing Christmas as well. SYRIZA didn't abolish on Christmas. There's going to be Christmas, friend Mackey Voridis, who you suspected of by these anarchist communists. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So they chose despite the lead in voting, that we would put Alexis Tsipras in our home and not Mr. Mitsotakis. Why would they call Mitsotakis? The one who promises them to cut off their pensions? That's why I told you, you're not just hilarious, you're also witnessing rattlers of history. On February 2, 2016 at SKAI, in Mrs. Kosoni, says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u150	I'm done. ‘Do you say and ‘yes’ to the reduction of supplementary pensions?’ And the leader "Kyriakos Georgiadis", what he says: "I didn't hide it, so I tell you that I speak the language of truth and I want to do the work of truth tomorrow. Easy solutions do not exist." I want from this Step of the House to ask the retired, fathers and our mothers: Will you facilitate him? Will you allow him to do the work of truth, as he says? Please, hold on to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who? The one who has not passed the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the one who has not passed the law on free access of uninsured people to public health, the one who has not passed the law on school meals? Is Western Thessaloniki listening? The one who did not vote for the Social Income of Solidarity, the one who did not vote in 2016 for the one-off payment of financial assistance to low pensioners? They don't give a damn about either the weak or the Macedonian or the world's problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Triantafylides, you've reached ten minutes if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u152	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u153	For the last three minutes, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u154	He says: "How do you deal with the medium-sized strategy?" And the Vice-President's answer was: "What strategy and what medium-sized space? Any strategy that shoots Tsipras." To know that, people know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Because you said twice "Kyriakos Georgiadis" as Chief, I guess it's not wrong. I'm saying this, so we can fix it from the Minutes. [[Noise from the Chamber]] So you don't answer, I guess it's okay. I asked whether the honourable Member was making an express mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-eight members of the House from Larissa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katsy has the floor. Mr. Vlacho has informed us that he's on his way. So she'll talk next and right after Mrs. Canelley. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2019 budget is indicative, in my opinion, of how the government is placed and how opposition to a number of critical issues that concern today and tomorrow of the Greek economy. In my opinion, two worlds conflict: one is about fair growth with a social state, with the benefit of available incomes and workers' rights. That's the one part. On the other hand, the other world concerns profits and tax exemptions for the strong and powerful, the dissolution of labour relations and the transfer of the social state to individuals. It is the first budget since 2010 - eight years have passed - that it does not take, but it gives. It does not include cuts, but support measures for a large majority of citizens, development for healthy and not parasitic entrepreneurship and correction and rehabilitation of injustices. It includes a gradual reduction in corporate taxation, a reduction in the social security contributions of the free professionals, a grant of contributions to the recruitment of young people under the age of twenty-five, recruitment to education and social state, a reduction of up to 30% in HPAI in most households, a monthly rental allowance for the weak and young couples, a abolition of the trade fee for cooperative farmers, abolition of the tax on wine, a abolition of the pension cut. This budget, therefore, aims to further improve the daily lives of citizens and economic indicators, of course. Everyone, but all the indicators of the economy are clearly improved compared to where you left them in 2015. Development, unemployment, exports, industrial production, tourism, absorption of funds, private consumption, balance of new or closed enterprises, public debt, interest rates on loans, red loans. Whatever indicator you choose to analyse, it shows that we achieve where you failed. And don't underestimate people's intelligence by comparing the 2014 forecasts with our events when you didn't catch a single target. We are talking about total irrationality. We may not yet be economical at the point where we would like to see it, as we did not recover 25% of GDP at night, which you lost in four years, but the comparison of our actions is overwhelming, and it shows that the economic path has been permanently in a virtuous cycle. And that, ladies and gentlemen, recommends getting out of your favourite memos. What you do not want with anything to admit, what has dissolved you in any way possible to produce policies and proposals for tomorrow, because you have no arguments and after you have been disproved at all, you have resorted to extreme right-wing crowns, like the one that the Chief of Officer of Anti-Civilization, Mr. Mitsotakis, expressed from the Step of the House, was the excellent graduate of the "Greek Education". That what? That we exchanged Macedonia for pensions. World conspiracy, therefore, so that people can understand what has happened between the UN, NATO, the European Union, the Commission, the Eurogroup with whom? With the evil Alexis Tsipras. That's what you're saying. Let's go out and say it publicly in the international forums, if you have the political courage. We challenge you. And I'm sure the international community will put it worthwhile in the scroll of handwriting and isolation, next to the president of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte. Of course, you found a response, this attempt didn't go to the gap. By who? From the Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn, which stung in your fishing, the blurred waters and made you a proposal for cooperation. The moderate centralists, the left-wing and democratic citizens, are just thinking of coming back the darkest right out of the worst nightmare of modern Greek history. We will no longer follow you to the categorization. We appeal openly and clearly to the citizens, with our things and our plan for the future. On this path our government is walking, faithfully carrying out its budgets. We put bottoms in the barrel, passed more than 2% of growth, protected our weakest fellow citizens and now move on with targeted interventions for the middle class, in the context set by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, so that we can unfold a new model of fair growth for many. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the consequences of the multiannual crisis cannot be corrected from one day to the next. However, we are determined to continue the effort it already seems to be making. Our country's course obviously depends on the international environment - not to hide behind our fingers - and the international context. The austerity crisis - from a different point of view, of course, in every case - creates political instability in the countries of the centre of the European Union, such as Brexit for Britain, the matter of yellow vests for France, Italy with its budget, Germany with the rise of the AfD. All these countries have a crisis due to austerity. On the contrary, the countries of the South, such as Spain, Portugal and Greece, have made a progressive alliance of anti-austerity. It seems clear, therefore, that the Left and SYRIZA were right in reading the crisis as a European problem, due to neoliberal policies and that the solution is left progressive federalism. In conclusion, let me, as a young man, refer also to the phenomenon of Brain Drain and to what the budget is doing in this part. What do we see from the budget figures? Remuneration of funding from 2014, expenditure on research and innovation will exceed 1.3% of GDP for 2018, with further growth trends for 2019. Also, the shift to digital works, such as the digitisation of the public, the agriculture of precision and the Superfast Broadband will give added value to both the economy and the utilization of new scientists. So it remains, colleagues and colleagues, gradually and soon to restore both the minimum wage and the employment relationships, which we have already been through with the laws. And then we'll talk about a real perspective for the new generation, stay, move on to the place. The benefit from growth must be shared to many. These two counter-projects will be appreciated, taken into account and give SYRIZA, once again, the country's governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Katsi, and actually in time. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Cannell has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u158	I'll make it ten!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u159	There will be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u160	I'll do ten like my colleague. I'm going to claim a fellow homogeneity of the journalist that preceded it. I'm kidding. Don't worry, colleagues. I can say in three minutes what I want to say. It is the budget of the largest phiimberialist, pro-European, pro-American impulse that has ever been done. Because you have made fashion the word "sexuality", you have given Americans and their mechanism, NATO, everything! They used to call "girls the fleet," making jokes. Now you have Mr Piate to have turned it - and the Secretary told you outside the Pentagon - the country literally in Trumba. There's no area you haven't left a base. From Thessaloniki, where, among others, the Natonic General, you went Alexandroupolis, Aktio, Araxos, Stefanovicio, western Macedonia, to the islands, to Karpathos, to Syros. In times when the world is sighing, you are feeding it and providing it with the naval operational capacity, as I am supposed to, that it will also be done business. The people - we call it ourselves - have experience and will not forget. For example, there are some things one cannot ignore as numbers. 6% of the Cypriot soil is foreign bases. You tell him NATO is for its safety, multiplying your bases, themselves, the government of SYRIZA and ANEL. And if Annell didn't get in, you wouldn't be a government. And you don't have a hundred days in front of you. Four years you've been closing the Generator in power. And in these four years, you managed to multiply the bases, as the ambassador who took his dog and went to the Ministry was never thought. Now you have left the dogs without a leash, claiming not a vital military investment site, as the German nazis did, poisoning and hematizing the world with its imperialist plans, but a vital role. And what is this vital role in the Balkans, with a bag of boxing for Macedonia and FYROM? That's the boxer's bag. That's the requirement. And that's where almost everything is given to an area. Everything to whom? The Skopje? Oh, no. To the Americans and their interests, to incorporate the Western Balkans into their plans. And what's their plans? "Thirty silvers", if 6% of foreign bases did not prevent invasion and occupation in Cyprus. Are you going out and saying the endless gigantic lie in Greece, that because of taking the Syrian shipyards and, if necessary, the ship repair zone, which will become green from the kaki of the American military plans, will you greenen the area with dollars? Whose would you like to become a partner? From hinges, you've started, you've become the preferred partner. Whose? The devilly good? What's the devilish good? The racist? The clutchy one? And Ku Klux Klan had a backup. Is that who you want to be the preferred partner? Do you want to be these interests? There's nothing you didn't give. And that's not all, but you've reached the point of Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, at a press conference, that there's not even half a military office where there's no NATO representative. There's no unit! In every unit you have a navy. Does that mean ‘preferred partner’? Whose secrets he handles? How much money and money does it cost? Get credit as a preferred partner regained by hinges! Since 1-1-2019, after the former Yugoslavia was torn apart from NATO intervention and became shredded and ethnicly cleaned, the seconded, from Serbia, Kosovo, with Albania, will be customsly integrated. They opened plans for large Albanians. They opened plans for further ambitions in the region. Do you think the Greek people will forget that? Will it forget Libya's haircut, the drama in Iraq, where there have been alliances between Natali and Euro-Natural willing men, Syria's ventilation? Such anti-Indifanta, my allegedly allegedly, by sending Greek helicopters to the wilderness of Israel, where the first victim is the Palestinian people! You send Greek helicopters to perform exercises in Israel. Have you resurrected the alliance where there is blood and persecuted people and come and say you don't make benefits? And the return is to become a preferred partner of these people's killers until yesterday, of those who, when you were opposition, promised that you would close Souda and the Coast? And now we're looking to find a place that doesn't have a base or that isn't going to have a neighboring base, with aggressive helicopters, with strange weapons and good warehouses, especially, extremely in Araxos, with nuclear preparation for the fall? NATO has always been a spearhead and a tool of the United States towards the Soviet Union and the socialist countries. And today the target is the same geographically for other reasons, purely imperialist. They're always the same. They're always financial. And all this because? In order to promise the Greek people that they'll get the cut, this lousy piece of money they take, to tell you they're safe too? How will they be safe? He's going to get hemoglobin. You did nothing but click on behalf of the Americans, NATO and Europeans in this evilly good, allegedly, alliance, every part of the country. You put her at a major risk to her youth, to get congratulations that you are the country that gives her from the weakness of the non-existent, 2% of her budget to NATO, just as none of them gives it. That's what you've achieved. You've achieved these benefits. They're registered in your policy from the first to the last minute. The worst of all is that in a way that is unauthorized, historically condemnable for future generations, you have thrown down and relaxed the anti-imperialist reflections of this people, the natural anti-Americanism, which was born of interventions in this place, from the blood that it cost, from the "Red Treasures" to the invasion of Cyprus. And relax those reflexes! And you are suddenly showing as safety the cheap cuts in the Syros shipyard, the even cheaper they will come if the Elefsina shipyards are taken and, allegedly, the revitalization of life through the US bases. That's the reality, as much as the left gaze and put it. Reds to paint the hoods of Ku Klux Klan, the same will remain when the blood flowing and blacks from the ground. And nothing more is going to change. And all this for thirty silvers. The Greek people have started and are getting credit for the fact that at the time they are hungry, you cannot give them safety at four trillions. Do you remember the four thirties? Thirty battalions, thirty degrees of air, thirty battleships in thirty days to be able to intervene anywhere in the world. Because the store is an angle and it has geostrategic significance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u161	Mrs. Canelle, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Mr President. There were other countries around - around and you saw them where they became, with superpowers and competitions. If you have enough money - and since you're here, Mr. Chakaloto - we have an idea and a proposal. We have tabled a question and I hope that we do not object to any of Parliament's wings. As for the Greek people who serve different interests and give them benefits in order not to resist - and as long as there is a KIC outside the bases, you will resist, you will be sure of that - we have proposed to you for the Greek phantoms, who are in an extremely difficult and fragile position at the moment to get through, this: With abolished or not abolished on Christmas, we have proposed that you give 200 euros per single - now, these days - aid to phantoms whose family income is under 12 000 euros. You can give them right away, so they can get through to the holidays and go to their families. We have also proposed that you give 751 euros - as you once said it will be the basic minimum wage - to the families of the fanatics, to the fanatics who have a family and are at the moment serving a home, which you have baptized a home - in the Balkans of the preferred other, to the murderers of the peoples, the Americans. Of course, we will vote against the budget and, above all, these extremely dangerous for the future of the country. Youth, women, children, old people, and even the bones of the dead who fell, resisting imperialist plans, will be chasing you for what you have given and not dared to give and, above all, to boast about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have received comments because I have already left at least two colleagues to speak close to ten minutes, you must try to keep your time so that we do not have such phenomena and each one can speak ten minutes. This way we'll end not on Tuesday but on Friday! Mr Panagulis has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Vlacho will follow and we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I feel the obligation first of all, before I come to the point, to say that the House that we have been living in recent months has been very successful. Since 1977, I have had many times in this Chamber, this defection that exists today has never existed. Yesterday, at the last minute, an amendment of thirty pages came. These are unacceptable phenomena. You have reached the point of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL smuggling all directions. You have reached the point of muddling against a former Prime Minister who has put Greece into EMU, who has put Cyprus into EMU, who has done the great work in his eight-year time. You reached the point of muddling against what he organised and successfully took place the Olympic Games in 2004, Mr. Kostas Simitis. I had a lot of disagreements with him. But the truth has to be said. Where did you arrive today, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL? You arrived from here: Send messages. And listen to it, ladies and gentlemen. He leaves coaches for Thessaloniki on Friday at 7:00 a.m. and returns after the speech of the Prime Minister or the next morning. As many as you wish, state it. It's free to move. And stuff else. Mr President, the SYRIZA Government, along with its outdated partner, has achieved what no government has achieved in the history of the country. Within just three years of governance you have led the country to the ultimate economic and political deadlock. Do you remember the book entitled “The Black Bible of Shame”? I will remind you of this book, and I will give you my congratulations, because you have well overrun those who so zealously denounced. Antonio Gramsey, often invoked by the Prime Minister, talked about "the age of monsters", when the old world dies and the new one strives to be born. That's what we're living in the monster age. We live between monsters and heroes. Who are the monsters? I think you know the answer inside. What should anyone want first? The EUR 8,636 tax, which would be 12,000 and finally become 5,900, sinking low-paid and retired at the bottom? Your social sensitivity to the students in the provincial towns, who are still being transported with wheelchairs of rural people to their schools? Protection of public health with dissolved hospitals? The streamlining of the administration, with the Attica Region entering the 'female' champion, according to the Court of Auditors' official report? The reduction of the taxation of the Greek worker, which has been reduced - your good! - of casinos? From 37% of the casino tax you took her to 8%. And that's not all that's done. Nine casinos made it thirteen. And I ask: First, who is he who raises the money? And, secondly, where's that money going, tens of millions of dollars from the cavaliers? The weather will show. Did you forget to keep the slogan “I do not pay” for tolls? And there was an increase of tolls. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, at the Ioannina station there has been an increase, and since 1,20 euros has gone to 1,98 euros and to the Malgarus station since 1,20 euros has gone to 2,98 euros. And your impotence to the refugee was a proverb in a few months' time to convert our islands into soul warehouses. As far as development is concerned, your work has been a great success. I said earlier that we had growth in casinos and that you created new ones in Crete, Santorini, Florina and Mykonos. Every day it passes, the country gets poor. The arrays and tips, which you give every year during the holiday season, show where you have led the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a typical example. To police officers - and especially to special guards with ten, fifteen years - the increase from retrospectives is from EUR 125 to EUR 210. It's a charity. I don't want to say any more. The former SYRIZA Secretary-General, Mr Alavanos, said so today. I have just read them and brought them to you to know: "Tsipras is a coup d'état Prime Minister. He is more right than Mitsotakis." Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u165	Alekos Alavanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u166	Alekos Alavanos. The one who gave the ring...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u167	We voted for him! You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Mr. Panagoulis, if you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u169	My colleague, I have more than twenty years in this Chamber, and I have never called underneath, nor have I interrupted anyone! Please! The minimum wage of EUR 751 was made at EUR 500, after EUR 300 and will soon be voluntary. The vast majority of young people work for 300 to 500 euros. You have made the country's production potential half-employed four to four euros an hour. And you were not ashamed to announce an increase of EUR 20 a month, i.e. EUR 0.66 a day. You're really challenging and unbridled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u170	Finish this, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe, however, that the Greek people will have the opportunity in a few months' time, at the end of October - as the Prime Minister says - to give an answer as to whether they are satisfied with the SYRIZA - ANEL policy. And I shall end, Mr President, with this: stop this story! Whoever disagrees with you is Golden Dawn! And the question that comes is one, ladies and gentlemen: why did you not vote for the last two waivers of immunity by Members of the Golden Dawn Parliament, while all of you voted for them, rightfully and unfairly? I'm not looking at that. I'm the only MP I've refused to take part in this comedy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Mrs Antoniou, on behalf of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the last budget for SYRIZA - ANEL - a budget which can be characterised by a single phrase: a budget - a stranded one. And I'm explaining. If we believe what the government officials and sometimes our partners - for their own reasons, of course - are not only going towards normality, but are heading towards absolute prosperity. Unemployment is falling, employment is growing, income is increased, consumption returns, growth is polluting. We are talking about the ultimate miracle, since, moreover, the government propaganda presents the Prime Minister about as the new Santa Claus, who is managing with masturbation the poverty and misery of the left-wing memorandum, which increases the incomes of our fellow citizens, sharing every day and every day a new allowance. The SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, having made Greece a champion in increasing taxes and insurance contributions throughout the OECD, is now coming to pre-election to share a so-called social dividend, which, of course, is neither social nor dividend, since it is full of injustices and comes from the wild scratching of all Greeks. Unfortunately, however, for the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict but, above all, for the country, the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is unrelenting. The quantitative indicators of the economy show the reality, Minister. The competitiveness of the economy is constantly retreating. Economic freedom is shrinking. Governing institutions are downgrading. Private deposits do not substantially return to the banking system. The credit shrinking continues. The capital restrictions imposed in 2015 have not yet been fully lifted. Citizens' debts to taxi and insurance funds have been discharged by 60% since the end of 2014. The overdue public obligations have not been cleared despite government commitments, Minister. The Stock Exchange has collapsed. Bank shares have been dismantled. The challenges for the banking system, including addressing non-performing exposures and strengthening organic profitability, are before us. The liquidity and viability of important operators, such as PPC, are deteriorating, while the state is growing without planning exclusively by micro-partial targeting. So to date, not only does the government not have a return to normality but the government does not exist with its actions and much more with its omissions - with responsibility for the partners as well - dominates the foundations of the economy. You are also told by the citizens, who are now more than 50% asking for elections and who now trust Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy to change our country's course. At the same time, the budget vote is covered by a peculiar odor that emerges the infamous moral advantage of the Left and the black clouds that are gathered on the front of our national issues. Mr Zaev's daily dressings have dizzled the government partners and at the same time prove how dangerous the Prespecies's Agreement is for our country. At the same time, in recent years, we have had a moral advantage. Where should I start? From the case of selling missiles to Saudi Arabia? From the issue of the takeover of the power company in Skopje? Since the concession of "Eleftherios Venizelos" at a degrading price which was, fortunately, prevented by the European Commission? From the huge issue of DEPA that it has just started? And I will reach the Golden Boys on the left, which in one night are transformed by waiters into Maximos and businessmen mediators, classmates - bombs in Maximos' basements. The government majority closes and covers the issues with a characteristic ease but also with the horror painted in the eyes, the terror of the perpetrator who feels that the cord is tightening, the horror of the people who realise that they will not have the majority of the House that saved them until today. This horror was, after all, forcing the Prime Minister in his last speech in the House to take everything upon him and to shake the finger. The truth is, however, that Mr Tsipras took all responsibility for all matters and it is certain that he will need to invoke more than Godzamanis. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u174	Thank you to Mrs Antoniou and to the economy of time. She was probably the only one who didn't exhaust the seven minute. Mr Spartinos, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes and immediately after Mr Kelles has been prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of economic and social crisis, following a series of failed attempts to get out of this crisis managed by previous governments, we reach the first expansion budget, the one brought by the current government, this government that managed to put an end to the era of monuments. We often hear Mr Mitsotakis lately and previously like to say that this is the longest government in the memorial era. What does he mean? Does he mean that perhaps as they would have done before and beyond the memorials, we would have to give up the effort in the midst of despairing the people's mandate and hand over the 'hot potato' to others, to whom the citizens have repeatedly taken a red card, as the Samara - Venizelos government did, as did previous governments, those who have led Greece to memorials with their customer and ruthless loan tactics, those who have bankrupt the country and have thrown Greek society into the greatest adventure that has lived since the war? Or does it mean that the respect of constitutional provision for a four-year term of office of Parliament and its non-destruct with cheap inventions, what has been followed by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK before, is politically condemnable? What does the President mean? Or does he thus only express his deep complaint, his bitterness and his despair, why did he lose all the bets he made from the time he took over the leadership of the New Democracy, which leads him to serious political problems, such as what he said the other day in this Chamber? And, as we read, it continues in its own tactics and party, the New Democracy, in Thessaloniki, for example, on the occasion of the SYRIZA gathering with speaker Alexis Tsipras, most likely excited by New Democracy by the offer of support proposed to it by Mr Michaliokos. The Governments of New Democracy and PASOK - those who took the hot potato on one side to serve the owners and possessors, their best friends and their own children - led the country to bankruptcy that was not only economic but also social and political and moral. It's obvious they'd rather not get out of the memoirs. On the one hand, to ensure that the government does not withstand this fact and, on the other, to impose their neoliberal policy, by re-establishing power with the staff of the growth guarantor. The harsh truth, however, is that they have not succeeded in the last few memorial years, when they were ruling, absolutely nothing for growth or for the preservation of social cohesion. What they achieved was a 25% reduction in GDP, an increase in debt from 125% to 180% of GDP, an increase in unemployment from 9% to 27%, a dismantling of labour rights and a return to the working age, a dismantling of the social state, by depreciating social structures, health, education, pensions and wages. And they have the courage to come here today and accuse us of destroying the economy, development, society. What disaster are they talking about? To reduce unemployment from 27% to 18.5%? To reconstitute primary health care and cover fully and universally insured and not? They blame us who, in these four difficult years, restored the economy to growth and the country regained its prestige and place on the world map. We now have a sustainable and surplus insurance system, which was delivered with a deficit of EUR 1.2 billion and now want to save it with Pinochet recipes. We implemented the CRL for over seven hundred thousand our vulnerable fellow citizens and the school meal program. We almost doubled the regular budget and expenditure of the Public Investment Programme for Research, increasing the percentage of innovative enterprises in Greece to 57.7% in the period 2014-2016. Within these hundred and a few days of our exit from the memoranda we have already made progress in the first relief measures for our fellow citizens, those who have been unresolved by the crisis and have lifted most of the financial adjustment, with positive measures which are not election promises to many, as they used to do, but to implement our commitment to a society that lost the land under its feet to support this society. The current economic situation, which has not been created by itself, but by a plan and sound financial management, lays the foundations for fair and sustainable development, for a social state for many. We have already made a reduction in insurance contributions for freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers, to the grant of insurance contributions for young people under the age of twenty-five, to the reduction of the income tax on legal persons and, at the same time, to the return to collective labour contracts, to the reduction of the HPAI for low and medium-income incomes. We prevented the reduction of pensions imposed by the IMF to close the second assessment, and this is not because it liked us by the IMF, but because there is no more single record or an argument for the application of the measure, which they were calling for with the strong support of the New Democracy and its paratroopers. This is for you, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, is it a disaster? Yes, it's probably a disaster of your own account. It is a disaster of your plans for the fourth memorandum, a disaster of your neoliberal policy that you wanted to impose as a one-way path. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, provides for real GDP growth by 2.5% in 2019, with a major growth source of further private consumption recovery and strong investment activity. The real consumption growth rate is estimated to increase in 2019 to over 0.6%, while real private consumption to 1.1%, which is expected to contribute to real GDP growth by 0.8 percentage points. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the fight we are giving is not over. We have, however, entered a new era, a time when we will have to build again from the outset but with good materials, a credible and modern social state, a state that serves the public interest, the ordinary citizen of that country, will operate with equality, democracy and solidarity, with respect for rights, a state that supports fair and sustainable development, with respect for the environment, development for many and not for the few. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It will be a state which, with its policies, gives young people hope and optimism, reduces inequalities and strengthens social cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u178	You said that about a minute ago, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u179	In this new effort, we can see that politicians from other political places, as we heard yesterday from Mr Saridis's position, representatives of the Centre, the genuine traditional traditional centre and not the extreme centre that we lived in these years on our side. This is our vision and we are sure that society will support us to build it together - step by step, knowing well what interests each political force represents, where heavy announcements and divisional perceptions lead,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u180	Please, Mr. Comrade. You've reached nine and a half minutes. You're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u181	Where is the lie and where is the truth, which way leads to a better tomorrow and who into the vicious past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u182	No, nothing more you said about the extreme center that doesn't exist. Extremely right and left. There can't be extremities in the center.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u183	You're a little behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u184	The position I am right now does not allow me to speak partyly. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government brings the first memorial budget and celebrates, continuing to live in its own reality. However, Minister, the budget shows that you are confused and continue the failed policy mix, without setting out any development prospects. Fortunately that the elections are coming and it is your last budget, because if this country continues, it will not improve its structural weaknesses either, and after the grace period there is a risk of a new budget derailment. And to get through to the real economy and with tangible data, because you're trying to appear as defenders of the middle class, the retired and the unemployed, let's see the real elements. In 2015, Minister, you received the tax rate for legal persons and professionals at 26% and took him to 29%. Right, Mr. Chakaloto? That's right. Four years later you come and reduce it to 28% in 2019. Is that a success? You received VAT on broad-consumption products at 13% and took him to 23% and then to 24%. You abolished the reduced rate of VAT on the Aegean islands. You have reduced your tax duty, Mr Chakaloto, from EUR 9,500 to EUR 8,500 and from EUR 1-1-2020 you have signed a EUR 5,600. You taxed tobacco, coffee, beer, wine, computers. Today one in two Greeks owes tax. The tax liabilities of individuals exceed EUR 103 billion. The government's dues to private individuals remain at EUR 2.6 billion, and according to your signature, Minister, since August. The Public Investment Programme has been reduced by EUR 1.3 billion. Since 2015, for four consecutive years, you have been reviewing the growth rate unfortunately only downwards. It took 100 billion euros more and that is to understand your so-called illusions. And, of course, the Capital Controls are a unique sample of our economic development throughout the Western world. The investors have tame them, you're dancing them in the baking pan. Isn't that what you were saying? That's why we're off the market. That's why the spreads of the ten-year bond are high, and that's why this stock market is almost under all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u186	In 2014, do you know where the interest rate was? 9%. It was 9% and today is 4.2%, less than half.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u187	What interest rate? But then, Minister, we were on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u188	Once you've been sweaty!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister, ask for the floor later. Mr Kelles, you are now feeding the dialogue and the Minister is not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u190	It's okay. It's the basis of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u191	Yes, it is the basis of democracy, but you have the floor now. Go on, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u192	I must acknowledge, however, the modernisation of the Greek public. I confess to that. The auctions in 2014 were held in the notaries. Now they've become electronics and ever-increasing. How did you say that, Mr. Chakalato? "No house in the hands of a banker"? You were right, because now the houses have gone directly to the funds. You celebrate the surplus and share allowances and money backwards with a delay of four years, and of course why the elections are coming. This surplus, I ask you, Minister, comes from high and sustainable growth? Is it from an increase in GDP? Of course not! From overtaxation and the strangle of the free market. You're talking about getting out of the memorial and memorial era. With the mortgage of public property in the foreign administration superstition for a hundred years? With a Public Investment Program scooped? With surpluses and suffocation until 2060; In his recent report the OECD ranks Greece eighth among thirty-six countries, with revenues from taxes as a percentage of GDP being 39.4% compared with 34.2% of the average, while indirect taxes do not discuss it! We're champions. Of course you know very well that indirect taxes do not touch the rich, touch the middle and low. In Europe we are in the last positions on the absorption of the ESDP. Especially in research, innovation and technology are only 4.9% and in education we only cover 25%. You represent the socially sensitive. EUROSTAT, then, last night placed Greece in the last position on combating poverty through social transfers, behind Romania and Bulgaria. Do you have anything to say? I saw Mr. Tsipras in the House yesterday extinct when Mr. Mitsotakis told him that you had exchanged no pension cuts with the Prespecies Agreement. He even said he was resentful that you would raise the matter with the officials of the European Union. Why the European Union, Mr Tsakaloto? Why don't you ask Mr. Kotzia? In the presence of Mr. Tsipras at the Ministerial Council, did Mr. Kammenos not say that millions of dollars were going through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Skopje? Why don't you ask Mr. Kammen your partner? Have you convinced Mr. Kammenos and the ANELs that the Prespecies Agreement is in Greece's interest? Since you have not succeeded in convincing your co-pilot, are you trying to convince Mr. Theodorakis, New Democracy and the other parties of the counterpopulation? When Mr Zaev talks about "Macedonia of the Aegean", when Mr Zaev talks about a "Macedonian minority" in Greece, when Mr Zaev celebrates the agreement, what do you say? Who's the loser? When one celebrates, obviously the other doesn't celebrate, he's the loser. So Greece is the loser. In any case, what is the profit for Greece from this agreement? Are you going to tell us? But for SYRIZA, whoever has national and religious consciences is far right and fascist. So you didn't call yourself the thousands of Greeks who protested against the Prespecies Agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u193	We never said that. We've barely said otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u194	They didn't call far-right? I'm not talking about you personally. So do you not call the thousands of students who were protesting about the Prespecies Agreement, while the hooded people who are destroying public spaces, universities and shops are simply watching them in apathy? And after the breakdown in health and education has occurred, you are now coming to dismantle national and social cohesion with neutral religion and the separation of State-Church, causing division even within the Church. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the 2019 budget does not introduce anything optimistic and is a spectacular turn in the past. Our economy is still in a precarious position and the sacrifices of the eight years of monuments of the Greek people are in danger of going lost if the same policy continues. Fortunately, however, the elections are getting closer and soon the New Democracy will be a government and Mr Mitsotakis will be a Prime Minister. We have a plan that will get the country out of insecurity, regain the trust of investors in Greek and foreign, and will make Greece a modern European state, with rules in education, health, public order and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-six members of the Chamber of Deputies (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nzimanis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I am opposed to the catastrophe and the café type criticism of Mr Kella and I am going to go into the matter that concerns us today. The successful exit from the Memorandums in August 2018 becomes a reality that we are all slowly beginning to experience despite the catastrophe of Antipoliticism and especially of the New Democracy. For 2018, the primary surplus is estimated to be 3.98% of GDP compared to 3.5% of the target. This gives our Government the opportunity and the financial margin to deliver part of the surplus as a social dividend in 2018. In the investment sector in 2017-2018 there is a significant rise in many important sectors of the Greek economy, such as tourism, the agri-food sector, innovation and new technologies. Today, for the first time in ten years, we have been discussing an expansion budget, which is based on a macroeconomic scenario, whereby the rate of economic growth is projected to be 2.5% for 2019. The first Memorandum of Understanding includes tax reductions, increase in social benefits and a reduction in insurance contributions. In particular, it contains many positive measures, which are fully compatible with the fiscal objective of our country and amount to 0.5% of GDP. The Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in September are being implemented to the fullest extent as follows: The "Help at Home" programme is reinforced by the conversion of the labour status of three thousand two hundred and fifty-seven employees from fixed-term employment contracts to permanent posts. It is planned to recruit four thousand five hundred permanent special education courses. A total of fifteen thousand permanent teachers will be recruited in the three years 2019-2021. This is how we take the first decisive step in returning the rule “one intake for each departure”. There is also provision for a housing allowance to be paid on the basis of family and economic criteria. The reduction of insurance contributions for farmers, freelance professionals and self-employed persons. The abolition of the trade fee for farmers who are members of agricultural cooperatives, for agricultural cooperatives themselves, for inertia, for legal persons who are in liquidation or bankruptcy, for school cooperatives, for social cooperatives and for workers' cooperatives. The reintroduction of collective agreements. The grant of insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-five years old to boost the employment of young people and limit Brain Drain. The increase in the minimum wage from January 2019 and the abolition of the underpaid salary which constitutes an adverse age discrimination against young people up to twenty-five years. The fight against unemployment is a central objective of our government. In 2015 we received unemployment at 26% and today is at 18.6%. In other words, within three and a half years it has been reduced by seven percentage points, and three hundred thousand new jobs have been created. Unemployment is expected to fall to 18.2% in 2019. The distribution of social dividends and 2018 amounting to EUR 710 million and paid to the most vulnerable economic groups in the population. The gradual reduction of the income tax for legal persons from 29% in 2018 to 25% by 2022. The reduction of HPAI by 10% and 30% for property of up to 60,000 euros. The payment of retrospectives to special wages for both active staff and pensioners. Already since yesterday, they were deposited with the beneficiaries' accounts. The non-implementation of the measure of the reduction of the main and ancillary pensions despite the parafiscality of the Opposition, in particular the New Democracy and the media supporting it. Finally, as far as Western Macedonia is concerned, the electricity tariff is still deducted in 2019, amounting to EUR 17,5 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth stressing that in the four years of governance of SYRIZA, we have begun to rebuild the social state with interventions such as the upgrading of primary health care by strengthening and extending local health units. Ensure free access of all uninsured citizens to hospital and medical care and medical examinations. Teacher recruitment. The introduction and strengthening of school meals. Access for more children to nurseries. We are already in the process of setting up a thousand two hundred new kindergartens. The introduction of the single child allowance and its allocation rationalised according to the number of children and family income. The introduction of the social income of solidarity, the social tariff for electricity supply and the housing allowance for our most vulnerable fellow citizens. The introduction of the transport equivalent for the inhabitants and businesses of the islands and for the medical and educational staff temporarily staying on the islands. And, as the Prime Minister announced, since the beginning of 2019, the fuel subsidy to small and isolated islands will be piloted. In conclusion, I would like to stress that with this budget, our country returns to normality, with society upright and with its labor and sacrifices taking place. Today we can be optimistic that our country has a better future with sustainable and fair growth and social solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too, for the economy in time. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor for seven minutes on behalf of the Democratic Integration and then the Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection Mr Papakostas will come to Vima, we will continue with Mr Balomenaki and the list and shortly later with Mrs Chryssovelonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget with a projected surplus of about EUR 7 billion is a continuation of the policy of overtaxation and the cuts of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, as it cumulatively incorporates all the tax and cuts, which amount to EUR 29.3 billion. Despite the government record, Minister, for allegedly pure exit from the memoranda, the heavy legacy of the unnecessarily important memorials that are your work, casts a heavy shadow on this budget and will be borne by the next one if the long-term commitments made by the SYRIZA - ANEL government are not to be abducted without any popular legitimacy. You are talking about social justice, but you seem to forget that there is no more extreme form of austerity than the excessive surpluses of 3.5% and surpluses that come out by removing resources and incomes from the real economy and citizens, when growth moves at low and very low levels. This is precisely what your deadlock and anti-development economic policy, Minister, is reflected in the most revealing way in poor areas of the territory, such as Thrace and Rhodope in particular, which I want to refer to. Only this year by the Rodopi economy will it be estimated that at least EUR 20 million will be missing from the diseases affected by tobacco and cotton, which for thirty thousand people are monocultures and the only resource to live with dignity. Instead of answering this request by producers for compensation that is reasonable, fair and proportionate to the damage they have suffered, what are you doing? You chose two days ago, to share from De minimis a sum of EUR 8 million to tobacco producers throughout Greece - we do not say that you will not give them, but I will explain to you what is happening - and to those who have not suffered any damage or even damages similar to Rhodope. In Rhodope, the damage to tobacco producers amounts to about 80% beyond the official position of the ELGA. You pay this way, with 100 euros per acre of small and very small tobacco producers who have suffered total destruction, condemning them and their families to absolute poverty and impoverishment. It is another classic example of your incomplete policy, which obeys only the purposes, which serve your temporary political and electoral benefits and nothing more. While the distribution of the amount of compensation had to be done on the basis of justice and the rate of damage, you were the only criterion you had was the customer criterion, as well as the electoral criterion, although you could specifically support the tobacco producers of Rhodope, not only with De minimis but also with the PESs cumulatively from national funds, so that the sum of EUR 100, which is charity, would at least go to EUR 400, which would be fair and fair compensation. I visited Brussels twice in a short time, and had contact with the whole political leadership of the European Union in the agricultural sector. It is clear that the European Commission's proposal and the new CFP enables the member country to distribute on a number of criteria. Here is the fact that we need redistribution - this is our proposal to you - to the smaller producers and to the smaller producers and to the regions where agriculture has a positive impact on the environment, on social cohesion and on income. At the same time, area aid should be higher in the poorest regions, as Mr Hogan said, in the less-favoured areas, to compensate for the large income disparities recorded at the level of Greek regions and depending on the crop concerned, while you are the distribution horizontally. We say we have to follow the pyramid model. In other words, where there are less-favoured areas with few incomes and regional criteria, the distribution per area should be more. If tobacco, cotton, livestock in the extreme region of Thrace are not bravely strengthened, what will happen? Territory, barren and dry. It will not be a question of simply extinct farming or a social group, with all the consequences it can bring, but it will also lead to social imbalance and will affect the well-being of the inhabitants of the regions. After dozens of questions and interventions in the last three years and on this issue, but I insist on agriculture, I have lost all hope that now at the end of your term, you will hear the demands of our society, which, unfortunately, suffer from your arrogance and indifference. You've given up Thrace, Minister, completely. Ladies and gentlemen, as your emblematic political initiative, the reopening of units of the former United Textile Industry Komotini was launched at the beginning of your term and you gave hope to four hundred unemployed who will find work in Rhodope, with greater indicators, etc. Unfortunately, all you have done in this area - that is, the Thrace Industrial Area, Rhodope, four years later - is to deport, break down and auction the factories, which could be a lever for growth, while unemployment in particular in some population groups is even 70%. I'm coming to college. The university is closed, is suspended. What were the real reasons, academic, social, labour criteria, to do fourth law school in Patras? Do you realize that the university is a lung in Thrace? Do you know why it was founded? You know this university gives life and breath to the area? What were the reasons for the fourth law school? Minor. I would also like to say a few things at this point. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the minority seek progress and prosperity, because they experience the signs of the crisis, poverty and poverty. They want jobs for their children, for their families, for what they know. They want the state's interest not to be opportune, not to be pre-formative and not primarily voter's but to be part of a permanent logic of equal treatment for all citizens, regardless of their origin, sex, religion or culture. The minority calls at the same time and to recognise her the right to claim and pursue in every legal instrument and a way that has the recognition of minority and human rights, as they result from international treaties. Not to criminalize their minds and actions, not to mark the right to free expression and vindication, to be able to have strong and legitimate associations that operate under Greek Civil Law and are recognised by international courts, to be able to speak in the management of the vampires, property and the choice of its religious leadership. Even on this issue, you have plundered and you are trying for voter reasons to make arrangements. To have a system of education equivalent and equivalent to public education, which will act proactively for the education of pupils and pupils, without any political and national purposes which operate in any case. Minority seeks, seeks and claims equality and isopoliticalism and at the same time positive discrimination, which the PASOK government, with George Papandreou, introduced in 1996 for admission to universities and was a positive discrimination. We want such positive discrimination not to be eliminated but to be strengthened. All these are typical examples, which the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL failed, and all these are the reasons why we as Democratic Reconciliation, but also myself as an Ilhan, as a Member of the Rhodope Law, voted against the last budget of SYRIZA - ANEL with a look in the future for a better and fair Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Papakostas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the first budget to be written by the country, by the competent services of the country and by the elected government, as it was after 20 August, and this is an extremely important issue in itself, because we have all experienced a difficult memorial period of nine years, where the place has been stumbled, staggered, the houses have suffered great fuss, the social inequalities have grown further and all this has hit Greek society, the middle class has hit the country deeply. So we are at a new time - the seasons have changed - at a time when the country must walk on its own, upright, without loaning powers, and there we must apply a doctrine that is invincible, the doctrine: 'where homogeneity, there and victory': ubi concordia, ibi Victoria. Instead, however, this budget, ladies and gentlemen, has unfortunately been tarnished in the past few days and during its debate and evolution, by behaviour which does not honor the political world, and I must point out that this budget has been accompanied by a slippery, in my assessment, and a dangerous stumbling block of anti-population as a whole, in particular the Civilian Anti-Population, where the social state and the social agenda have been baptized as an impulse and the social agenda has been abolished almost under the umbrella of the rhetoric impulse. Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken a slippery and dangerous path. Why? Because for a very simple reason, as you all know, the political term "social state" entered during and after the end of the Second World War in the lives of the people of the world, precisely because we needed to balance the deep inequalities and improve the daily welfare of the citizens. If today's Chief of Officer Mitsotakis, Mr. Mitsotakis, tells us, baptizing the social budget and the social agenda as a precursor, that he reveals that he is a strong fan of social arsonism, that the theorists he loves are Herbert Spencer and Francis Galton, that is, those who proposed social arsonism. Anyone who is strong and privileged has all the streets open, and so he will go to life, and whoever is weak, the matching little girl, is in danger of following the path of loss and prefecture, being lost. If that is the suggestion made by the President of the Civilian opposition, let us say it more clearly. That is what I understand and I ask for explanations. I am entitled to ask for an explanation, ladies and gentlemen, because one of the reasons why I participated in this government in its current composition is the fact that the social agenda was the one that inspired me because we were converging security programmes. I think that this is the way the conscious politicians, who are diving their tongues in their minds and who are putting the political and social value to home and not the party. I also want to share something with all those who rush to write, comment and act without my approval. I will, in fact, do so for the first time after eighteen years of political history in the central political scene of our country with a sense of responsibility. Those who comment without my approval and my permission - this is not allowed to democracy - and believe that my participation in the government is a product of transaction and a commitment to relations on equal terms with the Prespecies Agreement, to know that if they continue - I say this today in public and in the most official way from the Step of the House - they will find me across the street, as I have never done in the eighteen years that I have been dealing with in our country and I share with the mandate of the Greek people, with all the weapons that democracy provides me. Secondly, I would like to make a reference to Albania. Deviate now to the neighbors! If this does not happen, to say that Albania's accession is within the framework of the support of the neighbour from Greece, but passes through Athens's consent. If they do not see to it that failures and omissions are clearly deviated, as they have been doing recently, I think they should rethink very well the fact that they want to join the European Union. A prerequisite for their integration is respect for the national minority which they have recognised and its rights. Budget, security, the Ministry of Civil Protection: Security, ladies and gentlemen - and with an autonomous Ministry of Civil Protection anymore - is a supreme asset and democracy, a condition for development in all democratic countries, given the intensity, extreme and extremist tendencies which are, unfortunately, developed throughout Europe and, of course, by exploiting and undermining all those who have an interest in investing in these extremes. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President. I would therefore like to say that the budget we tabled as the Ministry of Civil Protection this year is not the one we would like to see, it is not the ideal but it is increased compared to the previous year. I must tell you that it focused particularly on the safety of the citizens and of the uniforms, but also on our attitude to Greek police and firefighting officials, who have already begun to feel that their institutional, economic and quality of life issues are resolved every day. I am referring to the fact that EUR 178 million of retrospectives have already been allocated to the police, which have already been submitted, and to the retrospective firefighting EUR 38 million already submitted. With regard to pensioners on 21 December, their retrospectives will be given. As far as the special guards were concerned, a joint ministerial decision was signed, in which the sums of money which should be reimbursed, with a political decision we chose not to be returned, so that they too can do as best as possible their difficult work in the service of the citizen. I would like to say in terms of security, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be a good thing if the parties were here to lower them. You see what's going on. You find that the surrounding atmosphere is curious. You see that every day the Hellenic Police is trying, attempting, acting and operating in the context of democracy, with respect for our legal system. I would like to say to all those who think that it is an easy bag of boxing the Greek Police - and secondly the Firefighting - that the Greek Police are doing their job very well, under adverse conditions, under the criticism of the parties who want to oppose the political leadership and the government. I would like to say that this is wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong for those who do so. So please feel the sense of responsibility and not collapse it with painful objections, as it serves a high good such as security, the collapse of which through your rhetoric creates a problem in the image of the country, which is considered to be one of the most secure in the world. It hits Athens - and the country - which has huge visitability, more than ever, because we are not playing in any players. There are fields to confront, to converge, to disagree. There is no excuse here at all. Finally, because I do not have time, Mr President, I have to say that we need to look at the issue of overcompensated households. I have a proposal here as President of the New York Council, and I would like to see it studied and discussed. I put it in mind by the responsible Step of the House. I am at the disposal of the financial staff to talk about it so that what we all want is for poorer and weaker households to be able to resurrect and truly be able to solve the problem of overdue households in a sustainable way. Part of this is the fact that in the last two years 2017-2018 the achievement of positive growth rates in conjunction with the structural reforms implemented, help as an atmosphere, as a psychology and as an economic reality in the restructuring of the economy in favour of an extroverted productive model based on the sectors of market goods and services. Therefore, an important condition for the reduction of overdue households is the reduction of non-performing loans, as the benefits will be directly visible from the reduction of the bank’s credit risk and the declining cost of financing them. So the reduction in the loan rates for households, I think, and I suggest that it will help improve their financial situation, as the economy is constantly recovering. Result and outcome will be to increase the valuation of existing household assets due to higher returns on capital and real estate. Households will therefore gradually become more valuable, allowing further stimulus to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing this first position with titles on the Ministry of Citizens' Protection and, more generally, on the budget, I think that this is a budget which alone is not a budget under the pressure of the memorandum, should make the political forces of the democratic arch that exist today in Parliament converged, converged, supported, because they also give a high symbolism to what our people are urging and encouraging us, that is to say, to be together so that we can all get the country out of the difficult times to deal with and enter into a normality which needs us all in reasonable, in a sense, in a sense, united and not split-up. That is why I suggest that you also vote in favour of the budget of the Ministry of Civil Protection, which I recommended. I think no one has any objections. So why should someone vote against the budget of the Ministry of Civil Protection? [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The same applies to the budgets and other ministries. We had the elderly here, for example, who visited us. We are therefore guided by the fact that our pensions of fellow citizens, who are useful and beneficial to Greek society, are not cut off. This - and I regret to say this - is not presented as a transaction product with any national issue. It is a reproach for the House, so it works on the altar of any party benefit, which I do not see is collected in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Here, Mr Balomenakis, you have seven minutes to speak on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is an optimistic budget, without hollow triumphs and accounting tricks, it deals with the successes that our country has seen in recent years and is engraving with realism in the present and immediate future with realism and honesty. It is presented with legitimate pride, for what this government has achieved so far. It contains strong assurances that its objectives will be realised in full. No catastrophe scenario, no allegedly obsolete analysis of economic data, is capable of overthrowing, much more to overthrow what the Greek people are experiencing in their everyday life the general situation in all areas. In this case, the figures do not benefit. All indicators are gradually better and, above all, those of the economic day-to-day lives of the poor and middle sections of society, to which the main positive choices of this budget are very well directed. At the moment we are seeing the revival of a slogan on the part of the Party of Officerial Opposition, which, until now, if I am not mistaken at the expense of multiple denunciations, had it somehow begun to leave. I am referring to the attempt to appear in 2014 as annus mirabilis of modern Greek history. The reference to this claim shows awkwardness and inadequacy of substance arguments. A central claim, for example, by the rapporteur of the major opposition, has been that this year in 2014, we had supposedly guaranteed our exit on the markets. One wonders how it is possible to ensure such a thing in advance. It does not excite the past with such claims. The undeniable fact is that the government, having long lost the support of the Greek people, had fully failed its objectives, from a point and then deliberately, in order to undermine the forthcoming 'left parenthesis' as they then liked to call us. Our Government was called upon to manage public finances in an environment unprecedented for the European economy after World War II. Excluded as it was from international markets, with no possibility of refinancing public debt and of financing part of the regular government budget expenditure with gross income already falling by 25%. We moved with a prepared banking system which made it necessary to introduce restrictive measures. It was a hard reality, let us not forget, it was selfishly fuelled by statements and moves made by prominent Samaras - Venizelos, who at the same time lied about the supposed stability of the system and the security of the deposits, whether they were making their own money abroad or publicly recommended to the citizens to flee their economies. We were involved in the apparent almost deadly difficulties of that time and we were victorious. Gradually and with very careful moves, having as a non-mobile goal from the outset to start by alleviating the layers that were most affected by the prolonged crisis, we have all won one by one the bets that our difficult timing was setting us. We have reversed the downturn in the economy, reduced unemployment by 10 points, secured the long-term viability of the insurance system, planned with determination and consistently complied with the steps taken to exempt the country from the Memorandum. We have managed to achieve anything but self-evident or legislative, as the New Democracy wants to say, an achievement of the discharge from the suffocating Memorandum commitments last August. These successes would not be possible without the understanding and support of the people, but not only on the basis of proclamation programmes but also on the tangible examples of consistency, commitments and actions and also on the tangible result that our policy has already had in the economic situation, especially the weaker ones. Indeed, these efforts have not remained unaccompanied. They have been done in an environment of more general recreation: In the field of health with support and relocation of the ESS through the creation of new primary health structures, rationalisation of pharmaceutical expenditure, householding of health units' finances in the field of public administration, with modernisation of structures and functions, with decisive steps of independence of management from party embrace, with the unequal promotion of executives, a process that is already completed. Also with rapid progress on the issue of the necessary registration and protection and public property and forest wealth of the country, with drastic measures to protect the world of work from industrial arbitrary, with the support of the inhabitants of the island complex and with progress in many individual sectors, as well as in the area of research and innovation, where a quiet job is actually being done to recover lost time, the recovery of Greek scientists abroad and the substantial promotion of innovation that is so necessary in modern society. And, of course, with constant commitment and exemplary, within the framework of the current institutional possibilities, an effort to combat all kinds of corruption to reveal unacceptable times of plundering of public money, in which it was revealed that they were either the headlines of high-level party parties of the two major parties, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, such as in the case of lending by banks with non-existent guarantees of either close friends and health-protected ministers, who had undisturbedly established organised mutual services and illegal enrichment teams. The Greek people recognize these efforts and recognizes in the face of this government, a sincere and unresolved and determined intention to finally end with the vicious past of 'immigration', 'rulerism', impunity, asymmetricality, asymmetrical plundering of public money. Because I don't have much time, I end up as follows: The year in which this budget is to be implemented is an election year. We have unlimited confidence in the Greek people, in their high political criterion and in their memory. And we are absolutely certain that this will not be the last budget that will draw up a government with the body of SYRIZA, as the people will also trust us for the next four years. Except for manuscripts, I want to make an observation. I read Mr Saridis' statements carefully. I think that this proposal deserves to be discussed, Mr Minister, precisely because it coincides and in some way supplements the proposal that we in the committee have now developed for the constitutional revision of the minimum standard of living. I think it is possible with scientific criteria to determine the minimum, the tolerable level of poverty. I think that this definition will also help to establish the decent standard of living we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Balloonaki. Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "You can fool everyone for a while, few for the whole time, but not all for the whole time," one of the most important American presidents, Abraham Lincoln, said. I think that particular clutch fits perfectly in the current juncture. Because with the debate on this budget, the masks of a government that has created a virtual reality for the economy with a look at the future elections are falling, highlighting what it considers to be a useful communication, always without regard to the real problems of citizens and society, that is, to the problems of everyday life. Today we are discussing a budget for the auctions, for example, no matter how much the word bothers you. And it's impulse because whatever measures are taken, it's not in the logic of a single project, but they're fragmentary and they're coming to meet individual needs and individual social groups. At the same time, all those austerity measures that affect the heart of society and, above all, the middle class, which, instead of responding to its real problems, are in the real problems facing the economy, we are giving benefits, narrating the future. We have a budget that over-taxes households and businesses, which includes heavy commitments by 2060, takes away resources from growth, fails to lay the foundations to attract investment, causes fear in markets and new concern to lenders. Because you know, markets do not only see the numbers that sometimes can also question them and become a double reading. I would say, above all, from the general political situation, what we call the 'political climate', and from the message which the government sends every time. Thus markets are concerned at the moment by an extended pre-election period, when it is characterised by promises and benefits, which will either not be implemented or jeopardised by the economic process. They are concerned about acidity and polarization, for which the government has absolute responsibility. And don't doubt that, because I won't stop saying that the rules on political controversy make them first of all the government. The New Democracy raised the glove, answered as many times as it had to raise the tons. However, they are still concerned about the situation in the banks and, above all, about the problem of red loans which have reached around EUR 17 billion, and their protracted pendingness is jeopardising their smooth operation. The main thing, however, is that this government with its ideas and party fraud cannot implement the necessary reform measures, because it simply does not believe in reforms. Why is it that a reform policy can be implemented, when it enlarges with rhysphetological uptakes and arrangements, a state that resists any development effort, which, with its tax policy and its ministers' narratives, exposes every candidate investor, and which is allergic - I would say - to what is involved in the extroversion strategy? How can you bring real growth, when with the legislative tools it has, you move on to the dissolution of institutions that could help redesign a modern vision for the state, such as the institution of local government? Because if, at the end of the day, you don't believe in concepts such as growth, creation of investment, productivity, you become easily a substitute for lenders, simply doing their program and orders. You only escape for a while, when you want to be - and because of the days, let me - as another Santa Claus and share bonuses from a surplus that has led to economic strangulation and bleeding many social groups, baptizing as a "social policy" the redistribution of poverty. You voted for not cutting pensions, but at the same time you have already made cuts in pensions and tax increases. On the one hand you sell benefits and on the other hand you want to keep the citizens hostage with what you are saying you will apply in the future, a future that seems to be not yours. You don't want to restore injustices, as the Prime Minister says. The truth is that you are seeking to create a new electoral clientele, creating an election record of promises, an account of the trapping of voters in front of the upcoming elections. So let's see what the evidence indicates the government's economic policy and how it's shaped today. Instead of growth in 2015-2016, we had a recession. In 2017, growth was 50% lower than the target, while in 2018 the target for growth was revised downwards. Public investment collapsed in 2017 at the lowest level of the decade. The competitiveness of the economy is constantly retreating. Economic freedom is shrinking. Private deposits do not return to the banking system. The credit shrinking continues. Citizens' debts to taxi and insurance funds have been detonated by 60% since the end of 2014. The government’s outstanding liabilities have not been cleared. The Stock Exchange has collapsed. Bank shares have been dismantled. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I have said shows that the government has lost control of the public finances associated with the daily lives of its citizens, and its'return to normality' account, in the end, runs counter to reality. Why has that happened? Just because SYRIZA, a rebuttor of the policy of restrictions imposed by the Memorandums, is trying to remain in power, to evolve into a better manager of this policy. You gave it all for the chairs, as the people say. This, however, is not a solution, and that is what the vast majority of Greek citizens are aware of. Our country needs something different. Circumstances require a change of page, they require us to move the development phase to the next stage, with a clear national plan that will not only improve the numbers but will change the climate and the psychology of the market and citizens, a realistic economic reconstruction plan, a policy that can be expressed, in essence, only the political forces of progress and prosperity that have never been touched by populism and have never been lured from its sirens. So the New Democracy talks about its own plan, a plan based on the restoration of credibility, high growth rates, the implementation of a forward programme of structural reforms, which will improve the productivity of the economy, strengthen the liquidity of the real economy, simplify taxation and generous reduction of tax rates, households and businesses, strengthen social solidarity with our weak compatriots with clear words to the Greek people, with an action plan that will have vision and ambitions, for a Greece that all of its citizens deserve. We are voting against the SYRIZA - ANEL budget, which does not meet the needs of the country, which does not propose realistic and practicable objectives. The only good thing is that it is the last budget of a government that is breathing the rest, because it has just been lost from political time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Mr Stephen, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at noon on 13 December 1943, the Calabrian Metropolis clock stopped coming back to 2: 14. His indicators remain stopped until today, at exactly the same time, to remind what Nazism means. Over six hundred fifty - six dead men executed and women and children locked in school and burned alive. "They fucked us with the mussels, slaughtered us like the hoops," says the survivor's testimony. "The shoes were stuck in something like mud, which was nothing but blood mixed with soil from the place of executions." These were the indiscriminate works and atrocities of Nazis and fascists. That is to keep us from forgetting the snakes that were circulating and circulating even today among us. Those in Greece today say that neonaziism does not bother them, it is time to read history and take responsibility. So today is a day of memory. Today we are discussing the fourth budget tabled by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the first Memorandum of Understanding for many years. It was years when the Greek people hurt, suffered and killed. The subject of this debate is the consequence of this sacrifice of our people and the culmination of a coordinated effort by the government aimed at getting out of the memoranda with society, however, upright. This has been a difficult and painful effort for everyone. It was difficult and painful for society, which suffered a great deal during the years of the crisis and fiscal adjustment, and it was difficult for a left-wing government, which within a suffocating of pressures and international correlations, was forced and found to implement a difficult financial programme, but at the same time, it was at the least possible for the most vulnerable groups of the population. In the years of our governance, the Civic Opposition and, in general, the Opposition demonstrated the behaviour of the child who refuses to become adulterated and to face the reality, considering themselves as the absolute holders of the government's rulers. All they had to do was insistence on elections. Those who went bankrupt have invested in communications and politics in the catastrophe scenario, which - oh, misfortune! - It never happened. From the 'left parenthesis' scenario to the bet of failure of the first evaluation, but also of the later, the role of counterpopulation was the absolute undermine of national effort. Every time the catastrophe scenario did not come out, the Civic Opposition was building a new one and recruiting every means to force it and tell the citizens that Armageddon is approaching. Her last hope and expectation was a reduction in pensions. This is where he played all the cards. Since September 14th, New Democracy has been accusing the Athenian Agency of bringing statements from European officials that the pension cut was not necessary on the basis of the performance of the Greek economy. The spokesman for the New Democracy, in fact, charming said that only jokers would not cut pensions. We won it. The meeting of the President of the Republic with Merkel, where he told her the necessity of keeping the agreed and the cuts, not to mention the attack by the Vice-President of the New Democracy on European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici from this step in the Senate Hall. And the pensions became the new thriller of Officer Response and the communication team. But having to vote for the cancellation of the pension cut - something that has had to do with the social dividend - the New Democracy had to find the account of the pension conciliation with the "Macedonian" in order to manifest itself as the size of the government's hypocrisy. In spite of the so-called appalling and treachery of the government, as New Democracy claims, with its vote it came and legitimised it. As far as Macedonian is concerned, tens of years in that country we have never told the truth. We did not say, for example, that in 1959 Evangelos Averov recognised the "Macedonian language". We did not say, for example, that in 1977 the Government of New Democracy was recognised as a 'Macedonian' language in the United Nations in 1977. I am tabling the relevant documents for the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We did not say, for example, that from 1961 to 1982 this was the map - the politician and the geophysicist - in Greek schools, where Greece was bordering Macedonia. Neither that in the encyclopedia of the country for at least fifty years, from 1920 to 1980, nor, above all, since 1950, we have reported that we are bordering Macedonia, which has a population of over four hundred thousand. I submit the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Hypocrisy, therefore, as a means of political placement and confrontation, is a well-known tactic for Civicism. She tries to gather votes, even using national issues for her micropolitical interests. And all these years, the spreading into increasingly extreme positions, the exploitation of national issues for micro-political purposes, patriocapilia, populism and collapsing with the extreme right, give the political signal of a party that has escaped from the traditional authorities, slipping away into dark greedy times, which we owe as a society to leave behind. This whole climate is dynamised by the contribution of the media friends and the construction of false news. At the same time, scandals appear, for which no responsibility has been committed and no convincing response has been given, when all of us here have admitted that these were the things that existed and there has been great corruption. Escape is the only tactic. From “SIEMENS” and “NOVARTIS” to “Greek of Chania”, from offshore and the house of Voltaire to ERIC the answer is the deafening silence. Ladies and gentlemen, we may not have done everything well, but the main objective has been achieved. The first Memorandum of Understanding is a fact, and it is a result of the course of all these years, of a course that has been marked by covering the budgetary targets for subsequent years, by reducing unemployment by some eight points, by benefits to the weakest and by an effort to preserve the welfare state, particularly education, health and labour rights. The budget for health and education is increased for the third consecutive year. And it's evidence of the government's effort to keep public education and public health standing. For the first time, after many years, the budget provides for the recruitment of thousands of teachers of special education, thus strengthening the training of disabled people. I do not, of course, forget the imminent intake of people working in the 'Help at home' programme. The reform of high school, the upgrading of the PSAs, the changes in the system of examination, the new education structures, the significant increase in research funds are some of the measures that place the emphasis on upgrading the quality of the education provided. Health is the other pillar of the social state that our government has kept up. Although the situation remains difficult for workers and patients, the dissolution of the ESS has been reversed. The extension of free medical care for all uninsured persons, the ancillary staff who have covered horrifying gaps in nursing establishments, the upgrading of hospital equipment and the bet of extending primary health care, are measures that support and strengthen public health. The reintroduction of collective labour agreements, the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the minimum wage for young workers - things that New Democracy believes or even supports and has already established - the increase in controls and fines for employers who trample labour rights are evidence of the fight that the government is giving to keep society upright, democracy solid and institutionally stable. Because we are the only guarantors of democracy and development. Because we are the real patriots and we love our country. On the contrary, we are all hypocritical and micro-politically smuggling the country and mortgageing our own future and our children. As "democracy sells Macedonia", as "the scouts of the caretakers in Manola as they fell from the air, they hit some migrant land workers", as "the virus passes through the immigrant to the Greek family", as some hands will arm themselves. Our weapons are the solidarity and struggles of the peoples for social justice in the Balkans, in Europe, everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u207	I would like to thank Mr Stephoe for the opportunity he gives me and the House personally to make a report, because it is indeed a day of memory. It's the day of the Kalavryan Holocaust. In fact, as far as I know, the President of the Republic is in the area where they honor the dead. It is one of the biggest crimes of Nazi Germany that took place during World War II. We mourned a victim, more than a thousand houses were looted, sheep and goats were confiscated, at least two thousand, and 260 million drachmas, if I'm not mistaken, were stolen then. I would like to propose to this House that we also honour with the memory of the dead by raising a minute's silence if you agree. [[At this point, all Members of Parliament stand up for a minute's silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High Tumbas of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vlacho has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 state budget is moving in the same context as the corresponding Memorandum Budgets in previous years, and serves two strategic goals of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. On the one hand, the continuation and implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding, which will be afflicting our people for many decades, and, on the other, the creation of a virtual picture of economic recovery with a view to deceiving citizens and avoiding the election of the government partners in the forthcoming elections. It therefore seeks, first of all, to ensure that our country fulfils its obligations towards our international institutions and our lenders. And so the budget is structured to enable the government to make use of the supposed achievement of certain economic objectives, so that it can deceive Greek citizens once again by presenting a virtual reality. With the proposed state budget, the government hopes, in the commonly called, to make black white, pouring ashes into the eyes of the citizens. It hopes that, together with the bait of distribution of the so-called social dividend, it will enter a second fate, and will not receive the necessary attention of the world, that for many decades yet we will pay as a people and as a society the experiments of the Memorandum Policies and the commitments that we have as a country to our lenders. Entries that are already digitised, institutionalised and are going to put tombstones in every hope of recovery of the national economy, sending to the tartar the living level of the majority of Greek citizens and turning their everyday life into a constant struggle for survival and security of the elementary goods for their families. Primary surplus of 3.56% of GDP and a marginal reduction in unemployment announces, among other things, a formal announcement by the government, with a clear aim of devaluing the intelligence of citizens and deceiving them. Because behind this window hides the absolute chaos, the total deadlock, the disappearance of any margin of future recovery of the national economy. The building of the primary surplus in this percentage is firstly the exterior overtaxation of citizens, which is expected to continue for 2019 as well. This is because, in order to achieve the famous abolition of pension cuts, the forecasts for tax receipts are increased by EUR 800 million at the same time from social benefits and EUR 500 million from public investment. And, of course, for another year, we will have to deal with a state that is completely inconsistent and inexistent with its citizens' obligations, a state with a role of battering and lame in the majority, which refuses to pay off billions of euros of outstanding debts to traders and professionals. These are sums of money that deprive the market and the real economy of, to illegally withhold them by actually committing an embezzlement. The aim is obvious, that the government can be attracted to achieving the famous primary surplus and, at the same time, hope that, together with the fines of charity which it promises citizens in the form of an allegedly social dividend, it will once again hold their vote. But the truth about the great allowances, dividends and other benefits that are supposed to be granted to the citizens is one and only, and this time the government will not be able to hide it, that is to say, that it returns a minimum percentage of what has been brought about by the people with the extermination of overtaxation in recent years. Indeed, what it is supposed to give, for their large majority, end up in the hands of Roma and migrants. In short, it has taken twenty returns one and triumphants for it. As far as the so-called reduction in unemployment is concerned, we are dealing with seaweeds for silk ribbons, which the government is trying to sell to the citizens. Gentlemen of the Government are deliberately avoiding the fact that there is only 'black' and undeclared work, in which thousands of workers, uninsured and only in so-called flexible forms of work, who allegedly create hunger wages, are forced to resort to thousands of workers. Exterior overtaxation, the non-compliance with the state's dues to the citizens, and the evacuation of the paradoxical economy, undeclared work and the various elastic forms of employment have become a status, allowing the government to cook the statistics according to its will and present a virtual reality, which has nothing to do with the real economy and the drama experienced daily by the vast majority of Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. With the state budget to be voted on, the government hopes to take credit for its mandated representatives to secure its political survival, avoiding the election crash in the forthcoming elections. He is trying to convince our lenders that he is able to protect their own interests better than the rest of the willingness of the Memorandum to win a few more months' stay in power and all this at the expense of the Greek citizens, whom the government is now simply dealing with as a disgrace to benefits and aids, devaluing their intelligence and insulting their dignity. The answer to the memorial deadlock and international loan sharks that are treasured at the expense of our people can only be nationalist and philosophical. The answer will be given with the national rule of our country by a future government of the Golden Dawn, which will come with the help of God and with the vote of the Greek people, much sooner than you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Vlacho. Mr. Michelis has the floor. Mr Yoyakas and the Deputy Minister, Mr Chrysovelonis, will then be followed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of our fourth year of government, we are debating a country's budget for the following year, a budget drawn up in the general context of our formal obligations towards partners but not binding programmes 2010-2015, a budget that moves in two general directions: first to support weak and vulnerable social groups by introducing the recent economic measures, positive to them and, at the same time, development steps. This is recorded by the positive aspects of the indicators of the economy. In view of the above considerations, I will not dwell in detail on figures. After all, this has been adequately analysed. I think that the budget is not just an economic issue but a economic planning plan for policy, which primarily affects society, and that is why I shall refer to political and social data, with a few thoughts. The fact is that the country has fallen into a deep economic crisis. Was this the result of external factors, and also the weakness and responsibility of the domestic economic and social elite, mainly but not only? It is true that this crisis over 2010 and in depth -25% of GDP has been transformed into a social crisis with the following results: First, it has marginalised wage-earning. How else can 26% of unemployment be interpreted, the fall in wages, the degradation of labour relations? Second, narrow down small-scale production and middle-class. Thirdly, economic elite activities and money were transferred abroad. The Swiss banks were filled with Greek deposits. We're a second foreign country in Switzerland. Number of offshore companies. The slogan "go to Bulgaria your businesses". No, of course not from SYRIZA. Are we worried about this? And if so, what other suggestion is there? Did all of us end up losing 25%, or did economic and hence social inequalities increase further in the country? Is this finding of interest to all of us, or is it indifferent to a portion of the political world? The above data from no one is questioned. At the same time, a system of corruption which seems to be missing from any state has taken such dimensions in our country, which has eroded the political system of power as far as possible. In these circumstances today and without overlooking the more general geopolitical conditions, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is coming to set up a roadmap of gradual exiting from the crisis and with society in order to remain upright. The way out of the crisis is certain that we are not all seeing it in the same perspective. Left-wing visas always promote social conditions and issues of reducing inequalities, which is why today they voted for the economic measures that are positive to them. The right is mainly proposing, if not exclusively, economic conditions, and that is why, I suppose, it would prefer, from its words, a generous reduction in the tax rates of large companies, instead of, for example, social dividends or stabilisation and an increase in pay and the improvement of wage-earning conditions. After all, it is the opposition to the right, which sees 12 hours right against it for decades or centuries of conquered eight hours. He claims that's how growth will come. Simple and vague question: Did this not happen until 2010? Why did the crisis come instead of growth? Today, then, we are facing another challenge, another dilemma, in which direction we want to go. Development without fairer distribution of wealth is not our choice. Let's not deceive ourselves. The age of well-being before 2010 was furnished. It was based on a huge loan, which we all know has been called upon to raise, in particular, wage earner work, which is more than 50% of the country's active economic population, and small and medium-sized production. What political forces can guarantee such development, face market liberalism and extreme right-wing politics? Obviously those of their programme, their positions, their composition, but above all their historical path, go with the socially weak. This in theory means creating a political front of joint action at all levels, these forces are understood. Is that possible today? We are not talking about the right-wing political party. We are talking about social democracy, of which, unfortunately, the involvement of some officials with corruption is an obstacle. On the other hand, the Communist left has perhaps chosen for the first time since 1974 the political choice'many parties, two policies', one of them and the other policies of all others, thus putting themselves outside wider fronts in contrast to its past history. Not to mention the EAW, not to mention the anti-trial struggle, not to mention their positions immediately after the dictatorship. We, based on our daily small successes and, above all, on tolerance and endurance, but above all on the expectations of the people's strata, will insist on and succeed. Life will show the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Mr. Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of counter-population have explained why the 2019 budget is counter-development. Some also spoke of election or election budget. Of course, the Prime Minister saw reports of impulse, not to the government, as he said, but to the citizens. Perhaps in one respect the Prime Minister is right, because the budget figures show that there is not much left to give the government, not even to do what he promised a few months ago. Thus the Government cut EUR 260 million for employment programmes of thirty thousand unemployed, EUR 240 million to reduce the participation of those insured in medicine, EUR 260 million from the housing allowance, which would have been reduced further if the Commission had not intervened, EUR 140 million for nursery posts for children up to four years, EUR 190 million intended for free school meals, EUR 50 million, that is 50% of the original budget for insurance contributions for young workers up to twenty-five years. In total, you have cut measures of EUR 1.1 billion for unemployed, pupils, young parents, working mothers and young people insured, together with the drastic reduction in the heating allowance and the senseless reduction of the ENPIA, you are bringing in an even more difficult position for our fellow citizens with low incomes. In 2019, social benefits of 30% reduced from forecast in the medium term, 1.6 instead of 2.4 billion euros. With, ladies and gentlemen, all this in mind, we can say that the government went under the bar of its own commitments or, as was very nicely said a few days ago in this Chamber, "streng yourself and you were second". Ladies and gentlemen, we have also voted for the slight reduction in insurance contributions and the maintenance of the personal difference, which we had already proposed with an amendment. You sought them, because you need them as the last alibi in the election year that comes. It's your fig sheet that you're trying to cover up the nakedness of your politicians. We therefore have a budget with limited and slashed social benefits. The fact that we have a basically unfair budget is also the result of the disappointing elements of tax policy. And in 2019, Greece remains the country with the most severe indirect taxation among the nineteen eurozone members. It is also the country with the greatest difference in the yield between indirect and direct taxation. Indirect taxation will be charged to citizens in 2019 with taxes equal to 17% of GDP, when direct taxes account for only 10% of GDP. What does that mean? First of all, there is a problem of tax justice, which is also a problem of social justice, since indirect taxes are a greater burden for non-members. Secondly, the result of excessive direct taxation leads to a loss of income and therefore a reduction in revenue. This is the classic, left-wing policy of the government, anti-social and anti-development policy, which continues in the middle of next year's budget, moving in the opposite direction from that of our proposal. We want tax relief for households and businesses, which will make a difference in order to increase the income available, to stimulate competitiveness and to strengthen tax compliance. We are proposing the brave reduction of corporate tax from 29% to 20% and the import rate of natural persons, for incomes up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9%. We reduce HISPIAN within the first two years by 30% for all Greeks. We immediately reduce VAT across the focus sector to 13% from 24%. We are proposing that the agricultural collective schemes should be taxed at 10%. We are increasing the VAT threshold from 10,000 to 25 000 euros. We abolish the trade fee for all free professionals and individual businesses, within the first two years of our administration. Such interventions may be made with a different mix of economic policy, which includes, in addition to the reduction of taxation, a drastic increase in private investment, a mix and a greater efficiency of state expenditure. We want, not only to give more breath to taxpayers, but also to ensure that those who give them a place with their taxes, have more quality health and education, better public services and genuine support facilities, whenever and wherever necessary. This means to us political and economic choices, beyond and outside the Memorandum of Understanding. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as much as you are talking about leaving the memorandum, the 2019 budget is a classic Memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL period, a recipe with which you keep the country ensembled, because you can neither do anything else, a recipe that goes without saying that we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Here, Minister, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u214	For thirty seconds. It is a question to you, but more to the next, because you have spoken and cannot answer. Of all the things I hear, I agree with some. It's very good things to do. However, in order to have the debate on budgetary days, we need to know what you want to do at some point. In other words, Mr Juliarakis, who is a conservative valuer, generally - you will know that - is not a person of exaggeration, he appreciated that the package that Mr Mitsotakis spoke about was EUR 5 billion. It could be an exaggeration. It can be 4 billion euros, it can be 3 billion euros. But, in order for a debate to take place, I would like some of the next speakers of the New Democracy to say, these interventions that you want to do about 2019 or 2020, and then we will enter into the debate where you will find the money and how you will save the state's economies. Because, otherwise, the debate becomes like we are talking about numbers and you are making reports of ideas. I hope you have something more serious to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u217	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u218	Can't I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u219	Normally, the parliamentary representative must speak, Mr Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u220	Because these are publicly available.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u221	You will also have the opportunity to reply. The Secretary of State for the Interior Mrs Chrysosvelloni has the floor for seven minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am at this step today, to inform you of matters relating to my portfolio, starting with gender equality. At the same time, I hope that the Greek citizens will learn where this particular part of their money is being invested, which concerns this area. Since the entry into force of the SYRIZA - ANEL Cooperation Government, in the area of gender equality, on the matter of supporting women's issues and the safeguarding of women's rights, I believe that a lot of positive progress has been made. Here, in the budget debate, it is good to make an account of what has happened and what remains to be done. Firstly, in 2016, within the country's first year of governance, a real national action plan for gender equality was completed and established in line with the UN principles. In other words, after a broad consultation in society, a programme of political actions has been structured. We agreed on how and within what time horizon the appropriate options will be launched, with the aim of significantly improving the position of women in all areas of activity in Greek society. The economic crisis gave us samples and figures for its causal relevance to the backwardness of women's conquests, even to increase cases of racial violence. The National Action Plan for Gender Equality 2016-2020 was established after a very brutal process. Secondly, we have ensured the strengthening and strengthening of the effective functioning of the two main players in state policy on gender equality, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and the Research Centre for Equality Issues. We have done so by exploiting the unnoticed work of workers in these bodies. In fact, with the work of other experienced government officials from other ministries, we have found and found the resources to continue to operate the universal network of structures of these two institutions, namely units across Greece, which each day have the responsibility of dealing with incidents of racial violence, domestic abuse of women, and in several cases also of their children. They are advisory centres and hostels, as well as the 24-hour support centre for 15900. The numbers are revealing, but also evidence. Only from 1 December 2015 to today, the abovementioned structures, with the support of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and the JRC, have provided assistance to fifteen thousand cases of women, victims of violence. At this point, I draw attention to you, to understand the strength of the sector's human resources, for which I have been politically responsible since August 2018. A characteristic example arises from the functioning of the TBR. His budget has been cut in the years of the memoranda, of 55% and more. However, the money given for its numerous structures throughout Greece to support women is only coming out of taxpayers' pockets in 1/5. The remaining 4/5 of the operating costs of the services offered are paid by the financial programmes, which are provided by other sources, mainly through the use of European funds. For this reason, I would like to congratulate the Heads of these bodies, the Secretary-General of Gender Equality, and the President of the ERIC, Mr Agathopoulos, who have done an effective job before I take up the duties of the State Secretary responsible. This government took the initiative and brought to Parliament in April 2018 the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, which in Greece is known as the Istanbul Convention. It had been signed by representatives of EU member countries since May 2011. Since then, however, perhaps for the same reasons as Greece until our government has taken the initiative, this convention remains inactive. It is not European legislation because it has not been ratified by certain Member States. And that is to serve the vote of those who turn their eye to the fascist or fascist tendency of the electorate inside those countries. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Greece, however, is in the interest of transforming this agreement into European legislation. Apart from the fact that it is a duty for every democratic person to support the introduction of legislation against violence against women, there are opportunities in this case for our country of European co-responsibility to share financial burdens, which it has many times taken on its own, so that it cannot always manage to provide the appropriate services, at the critical moment, to the women who have been tested. I am certainly talking about the victims of violence, which have been added to the incidents facing our structures, because of the intensity of the refugee problem in recent years. To this end, we are taking part in all the European meetings, putting pressure on the completion of the process of sanctions at the national level of the Member States that are remaining. And I personally have been involved in two European-level summits, with relevant interventions in Vienna and Brussels, and I will be present with those who still need it, so that this campaign can succeed. In August 2018, a persistent effort was completed with the hard sacrifices of the Greek people to leave our country from the suffocating surveillance. Among other things, with the choice of Prime Minister, the agreement of the government partner, Mr Kammenos, and the synergy of the Minister of the Interior, for the first time in Greece, the responsibility for gender equality matters lies with me, thus going back to the State Secretary's level. However, I am sure that they most wanted to show the great importance that this government attaches to the issues of support for women, all those who have fought in recent decades for the demands of the women's movement in Greece and its conquests, every mother, every worker, every young girl who has dreams and has the right to see them come true. In the coming days, it is introduced into Parliament, to become a law of the state, an integrated draft law on the essential gender equality in every area of social activity, in family, policy, work, in the private and public sectors, in education, in the media, in the municipalities and in the regions. It is about the culmination of the political acts of this government in the field of gender equality in the case of the support of women in our country, in the planning of this four-year period. I hope and sincerely hope that we have the broadest possible consensus and consensus of the political forces, who believe in democracy in voting for the gender equality bill, support for women's rights and the fight against racial violence. Every democratic citizen and MP has an obligation to consider consensus as a priority for a bill with such important content. With regard to the general budget, I have the opinion that it is the first to open up a positive perspective, tangible, as, among other things, it reduces taxation and under conditions of incentives for work, returns money from overcompensation to many people, who have been deprived of it and have great need, puts an end to the further reduction of pensions, enables municipalities to gain on a permanent basis beneficial services for citizens, such as 'Help to Home' or 'Special Treatment', as well as to continue their policy of supporting municipalities for projects with the 'PHILIMOS' programmes and others, which are close to EUR 2 billion. However, for those who work for gender equality, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and the TSE, for the first time this year, there is an increase in their funds. Thus, they will have the opportunity to hold more scientific seminars, to take information activities in schools and wherever there is a need elsewhere. Finally, on the other hand, on the other side of my responsibilities, which relate to the administrations and registers, I am briefly saying that the next important step will be the presentation of a proposal for legislative intervention, which will solve the problems faced by these municipal services and the service of citizens in their daily needs, such as births, marriages, the deaths of their own people and their business. The ultimate objective is to move to the full digital function of the registry offices and registers so that citizens can alone receive and use documents, which are interested in them by a device, i.e. from their mobile or computer, with access to the system of the already existing citizens’ registry via the internet. I have tried to present you with a comprehensive, progressive, and at the same time ambitious and implemented political programme on gender equality, which is about the last three years and of which little is left to be implemented in 2019 by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also by my other area of competence. I am convinced that the same serious work is done in all the ministries, in the whole of the government's work. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of the budget as a whole, that is, as far as all the ministries are concerned. When they don't. We conclude this historic and crucial political cycle, we will all be judged by the Greek people in the autumn of 2019, so I am absolutely certain that it will positively mark the work of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Minister. Mr Anastasios Pratsol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the position of the previous speaker in the New Democracy on the measures, not on costing, as the Minister of Finance said, Mr Tsakalotos, but on the fact that what we are doing is a pre-electionist, while what New Democracy says in relation to benefits is a programme. So let us really decide what is from the two. In another abstraction of his speech he said that we should have good public services. I wonder if he's on the joint line with the Chief Mitsotakis when he suggests that 5 to 1 is public, while we have managed to win 1 to 1. How will public services be better in health and education? Today we are called upon to vote on the first budget after the end of the memoranda, which does not incorporate restrictive policy measures, instead introduces EUR 910 million for taxpayers and households. Greece, after a profoundly prolonged recession of ten whole years and eight years of monuments, returns to growth and fiscal expansion and balance. So the targeted measures to restore the wounds created by budgetary constraints are the first step towards strengthening the social state and social cohesion. in a safe and fair way, through the financial area that has been secured. Unfortunately, the New Democracy is still unable to identify the country's exit from the memos. He denies reality and speaks of a swan song of the government, in essence confessing to the deprivation of power that holds it. It is obvious that her embarrassment, as she remained naked by a substantial design and convincing account, now that the destruction and effort to degrade the achievements of the government are constantly falling into the void. Already the country is in the sixth quarter with growth. Gradually but firmly, restoring confidence is inspiring in an economy characterised by extreme uncertainties. These performances are not fragmentary, but they mark a change of page for the country. When will the New Democracy finally realize that there is no fourth memorandum or that it will not be applied to the famous cutter, for which they were so much cut and that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has finally managed to abolish the measure of the pension cut and not to suspend it, as its members have often said? For 2019 there is an economic growth rate of 2.5% compared with 2.1%, forecast for 2018 and a primary surplus of 3.6% of GDP. Real growth will result from further recovery of private consumption by 1.1% and strong investment activity. Investments are projected to increase by 11.9%, while public investment is estimated to recover at a rate of 7.9%. In particular, the allocation of EUR 7.3 billion is budgeted. Unemployment is projected to decline further in 2019 to 16.7% compared with 18.3% in 2018, with an employment boost of 1.4% and a reminder that we received unemployment at 27.5%. Today ELSTAT announced that unemployment for the third quarter of 2018 is at 18.3%. Of course, all the measures announced by the Prime Minister at the IGC are included in the 2019 budget, thus disguising the opposition and the well-beings, who were talking about the failure of the programme. Of course, it is not possible to omit the distribution of the social dividend for a third consecutive year, which is about three and a half million beneficiaries and results from exceeding the budgetary target by 0.48% of GDP. As far as the area of local government is concerned, an area that I know and serve for many years, I would like to point out the following: the reform of the KLITHENIS programme and the simple analogue implementation of the deepening of democracy and the opening of self-government in society. People's will is strengthened, leaving behind the status of unilateral representation, the ground for the development of programming convergences and consensus is being created in order to tackle common problems. Through municipal and regional referendums, we restore the full representation and absolute matching of the administration of the Ottas, with the will of the electorate. In the critical financing sector, in the first years of the crisis, state funding to OTA has been reduced by about 60%. We, despite budgetary constraints, stopped the reduction in both 2015 and 2016 and increased for the first time, after years the state grant to OTA, through both 2017, 2018 and 2019. Here too, it should be stressed for the make news, which is moving once again, for allegedly reduced CFP by EUR 673 million, that this is due to the fact that the benefits will no longer be paid by the municipalities, but by the OPECA. In fact, then, there is a small increase. Small though not a reduction as took place in 2010-2014. Apart from the CAP, however, the forgotten public investment programme has been exploited by the previous governments. Of the programmes to address natural disasters and water shortages, more than EUR 124 million was allocated to the LAGs in 2015-2018. I would remind you that the corresponding amount for the period 2012-2014 was less than EUR 8 million. Even with the very important programme for the payment of dues, after final judicial decisions, the TAs were strengthened at the same time as another EUR 134 million, while for 2010-2014 it was zero. In addition, 41 million was allocated to support mountainous and island municipalities, for the first time and 95 million are now available for the first time, to upgrade children's and nursery stations and to harmonise them with the standards laid down in the new presidential decree. The most important thing is that we have gone ahead with the creation of new, innovative financial instruments to cover them, such as the 'Philodimos' programme, which started with an initial budget of EUR 500 million, but will exceed EUR 2.3 billion by 2023. The response to the program was huge. From 15 June until today, two projects amounting to up to EUR 5 million are included each day. For example, some EUR 512 million for ‘PHILIDIS I’ and about EUR 174 million for ‘PHILIDIS II’ were integrated. With the "PHILADIMOS" it is possible for the first time for municipalities to meet basic needs in infrastructure, in the field of water supply, sewerage, rural road construction, rehabilitation of CIDS, as well as projects to protect against flooding and damage from natural disasters, restoring municipal buildings, construction, construction of new municipal buildings and school buildings, building of children's stations and sports facilities. We proceeded to the great 3K notice for eight thousand sixty-sixty-six new recruitments of permanent and stable staff in the counties' return services, JHA cleanliness, based on the needs they identified for the first time in 2008. Other seven hundred and fifty-eight recruitments have been sent for treatment in the AEP for compensation services, as ‘urine’ of competition 3K, following specific requests made by the municipalities themselves. In the intervening period and in order not to disturb the smooth operation of the municipalities, we are extending to workers' contracts until the final tables of the successors come out. Arrangement for the proclamation of three thousand two hundred permanent staff at "Help at Home" through ASP was adopted. It is already provided for in the 2019 budget to finally stop the political hostage, to which the previous governments have obligated workers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer here to two major projects related to Evia, such as the bypass of Chalkida, which, after thirty-four years of promise this year, has already entered the tracks and provided funding, as in the hospital of Chalkida, which had stopped in 2008 and had effectively stopped its funding. Since 2015 it has been continued and within 2019 it has been received. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has been moving on in an orderly and targeted way since the first day of its election. We managed to get Greece out of the memoranda and the crisis, ensuring a development path for our country and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u225	Please, Mr Colleague, you are already after nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u226	I shall conclude, Mr President. We leave behind corruption, the opacity and the smuggling of public money. We leave behind everything that brought Greece to the edge of the cliff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Giokas of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. When all this necklace of crisis and memorial began, as a JRC we said at the time - and if you want to counter the dominant current - that the memorials and loan contracts were not the result of an outward imposition, nor a product alone of the crisis. The Memorandums have brought together a policy predetermined by the European Union's staff from the beginning of the 1990s, which, on the one hand, aims to put the price of labour into Tartarra at all levels - wages, fixed working hours, insurance, health and welfare - and, at the same time, to form new profit fields for capital. From this point of view, the memorials have achieved their goal, because that was their goal. Then the other powers, superintendent of SYRIZA, what did they say, and they still call them? Sometimes that the memorials were imposed on the outside, sometimes that it was solely corruption, sometimes the memorials that it was a wrong recipe and went by saying, only to remain in obscurity, and finally, to the unavoidable real operative cause and the crisis and the memorialities, which were the very capitalist development path and finally, to cultivate the impression that there is a moral capitalism of human, fair, if some other political forces are found at the wheel of the administration. The follow-up is known. SYRIZA was found at this helm of management and not only continued the same policy, but in several cases, exceeded the New Democracy and the PASOK, by implementing measures that they either could not or did not have had time to take. The law on strike, limiting the right to strike is typical, without being the only one. And the problem of the New Democracy and PASOK, especially the New Democracy, is that, that is, that SYRIZA has proved far more effective both internally and abroad in the various geopolitical plans in the region. It is for this reason that the SYRIZA Government receives credit from all of them, which, until a few years ago, the New Democracy regarded them as its own privileged partners: the Commission, NATO, up to the various fora and the associations of capitalists. And we arrive at today, where the memorials, typically, are over, growth has actually returned - we do not question this, what we are showing is the anti-grassroots character of this development - yet what has not finished? The hundreds of Memorandum Laws have not yet been completed, but they are barely strengthened. A characteristic case is the Brutsi law, which you have triggered on your own hundred memorial days and on the basis of which the minimum wage will be fixed, not by collective bargaining, but by decision of the Minister of Labour. This is not the end of the suffocating comitology, the commitments for bloody surpluses are not over. And this year's state budget, as well as the government's policy as a whole, testify to the truth, for example one billion more taxes, which people's households have to pay, at the same time as the capital's privileges are increasing, as the reduction in distributed profits has shown since 2015 to 10%. For the few, then, it is an extension of the budget. For many, it is still, not just restrictive, but suffocatingly restrictive, because, as you say, positive measures are only a minimum part of this robbery that continues and escalates at the expense of the people, just to support the memorial fairy tale. So the question remains. Why, after the memorials have been officially finished, do you maintain integer and strengthen all this anti-grassing arsenal? Because quite simply, the answer is: the same factors that imposed the policy of the memorandum are the same factors that impose and their continuation. On the one hand, the aim of the chapter on armoring their competitiveness, on the other hand, on the intensity of exploitation, at a time when the European and global economy looks like animated sand - and that is not what the JRC says, on the other hand, the staff of the system - and, on the other hand, the European Union's policy, which serves these aims, which is even worse for the peoples of all the countries of Europe. This is clearly demonstrated by the recent mobilisations of French workers, the French people, who have been following these days. So because you have adopted all this, you have also become the most consistent defender of all this deepening process of the European Union. You even brought in a year ago to speak to Punka, Visualist McCron, who last weekend took an army down to Paris and captures students, 15 years and sixteen years, as if they were terrorists. And this President, you join him on the progressive front, which you say and brought him to Pineca, to speak of his vision of a united Europe. And not only that, but you are also making this dangerous - in our view - political dishonesty: the popular discontent towards the European Union - which must strengthen even more and have radical features - you are trying either directly or indirectly to identify it with extreme right and nationalism, with powers and parts of capital, that is to say, which at this stage actually choose the national folding and the various measures of economic protection, finally throwing water into the mill of such reactionary forces. Because real and consistent opponents of fascism, nationalism, cannot be those who have become signifiers of the designs of NATO and of the European Union, that is, forces which in the past years in our region, in the Balkans, have sprinkled - and continue to sow - the poison of division and nationalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They cannot be those who show only Orban and Lepen, but they have become the best partners of the Trump, as well, they cannot be consistent opponents of nationalism, those who rekindle the bankrupt theory, even in the name of the Left, for a fair and philosophical union that will never exist. Nationalism, fascism, you can effectively fight him with a radical class movement in every country, with the flag of modern needs, with real solidarity from peoples, in conflict with capital, its governments, the European Union and NATO, who give birth to and fuel the action of such forces. And this can be done with a stronger Communist Party of Greece. I conclude by looking for the budget, to find out how much money is spent on anti-military and anti-nuclear protection, forest protection and firefighting, we see that these are still stuck, stuck at the levels of previous years, despite the fact that these budget cuts have shaped the huge shortages of staff, infrastructure, and have made a decisive contribution to the catastrophic tragedies like Mandra and Matti. A while ago, the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mrs Papacosta, spoke. Nothing about all this. Something about extremism said about security for extremism. I guess the far right agenda isn't just in New Democracy. Also looking for the budget, there is nowhere for the 500 million that the Prime Minister spoke of in Lavrio after the catastrophic fire in Matti. Anywhere 500 million for civil protection. So what are you doing? You continue the same criminal policy. In combination with the bill you bring about for the settlements, the legalisation of arbitrary, unconditionally, as the previous ones have done, after you have first thrown two - three camera mandats, in fact you are shaping the conditions and the conditions for new disasters, like those that we lived in Attica and Mandra and Matti.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here comes Mr. Koukoutsi. But for a minute, Mr. Tsakalots wants to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u230	I would like to express my pleasure that the English institution of tea time, the time of tea, has also been adopted by the New Democracy and the KINAL, because in the last speakers it is a representative of the New Democracy and a representative of the PASOK. Obviously, they've gone to tea, and there's six to seven of the JRC and twenty-five of ours. I want to say something about the previous speaker. Only one point at first seems to me to be important to the discussions between us. On economic issues, I will speak in my main speech. I just want to make one comment. You said at the outset that we thought we'd get in and just change the direction of the government. That's right, you said it. It is a mistake to all the left to think that the state has such a tooling infrastructure, that if the JRC or the good of the Left, they will be able to change direction. It is very important that you learn from our successes and from our mistakes, because also with the popular authority, which you ambassador, you will have huge problems if you do not understand how complex modern organizations, modern institutions, modern businesses and how you can influence them. This working relationship, which we think we are just putting our own and good people into a business - you said it very clearly in your criticism to us - I will tell you that you need to study it very much, as we are studying it, because the Left will constantly make mistakes if it does not address this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification, to see if I understood correctly. I may not understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u233	The Minister referred to the speech of his colleague from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u234	I'd like the floor. I'm not actually going into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u235	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u236	Did you say, Minister, that there is our own reduced participation in the Chamber? Did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u237	I said that in the last 20 minutes there has been a representative of the New Democracy and a PASOK, KINAL. Aren't they a little few?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u238	Minister, I beg your pardon very much, but if you look at it on the basis of the strength of each party, our presence yesterday, which we had the insurance and yesterday, but also today, is proportionately very good and very full as far as your arguments are concerned. They have spoken four of our colleagues since this morning. Why do you say that? Was that an argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u239	For twenty-five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u240	Minister, do not now have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u241	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u242	Neither in the Minutes are this dialogue written, nor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u243	I believe, Mr President, that this was inappropriate. It didn't make any sense to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u244	It wasn't bad at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u245	Then, since it was not bad, Minister, I would ask you to comment on something, if you wish, according to your judgment and your wishes, because yesterday you did a very good job and we appreciated it. I would like you to comment on a sentence that was said the other day in this unacceptable debate: "You can be satisfied with various remnants of political life that passed through the SYRIZA headquarters and because they had a strange relationship with half Athens, they left the SYRIZA headquarters and now you get them to join yours and go with the other half of Athens." Please make a comment on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u246	Okay, now. Can Mr. Chakalotos comment on something that was said yesterday? It's not possible. Mr. Secretary, let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u247	There is no point in making any comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have learned something new, namely that there are maps of older people showing a Republic of Macedonia on our northern border. In the context of Yugoslavia, it was probably the Republic of Macedonia, but not the state. I am very pleased that many SYRIZA speakers are talking about returning to normality. You're not used to anything like that. According to what you're voting on, you only want regularity in this country. And another thing that I would like to raise: In the year 2018 is good, because the times that we are going through are difficult, to do something with this lady at ERT. Yesterday he fought for an hour whole because the battle of Athens was gone. Why doesn't he tell Mr. Tsipras to tell the American ambassador or SYRIZA officials who are in the embassy? The "napalm" bombs in the Civil War brought no one else to Greece, rather than the Americans, the people's killers. But I don't think SYRIZA gets up today to say something about Americans. You don't dare. No matter what. Endless discussions, flammables, fanaticism, measures, numbers, incoherent calculations, undetermined economic sizes, incomprehensible terms and all of us here in an indisputable style, making the debt in our constituency, Communism, Opposition, Everyone in place, which is to give their mark and the world to live something else. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is locked in a tragic dead end. Eight years later, it remains before the same problems and is exposed to market speculation. How will our people be economically active when it is pressed by heavy taxation, which takes away any incentive to entrepreneurship and private initiative? How will it be ensured that the economy is financed by an unsecured banking system? Speaking, Minister, for banks, I have asked a timely question. You're not answering. It's okay. I will do it in writing, so that the Ministry can answer the recapitalisation and reorganisation of the Greek banking sector at least. I simply ask why the banks continue to regard the claims against red borrowers as their own when these loans were repaid by a third legal person and therefore the only beneficiary is now the Financial Stability Fund. Why do banks grant and sell these claims? These loans were paid, we paid them. Who are the banks that finally took them? What did they take? Why did they take them? Some things have to be answered once in this country. How will public investment, when imposed on the country, be made through the memoranda, by means of an obligation to present by 2060 and put a beastly budgetary surplus? Evidently, Greek companies must be purchased from foreigners. They have the debts, and they have to get out of the way. Where does this situation lead? The Greek people are embarrassingly following what is unfolding in front of their eyes. But it is not the economic thing that will take you away, what will cause you problems. It is your ethnic policy and, above all, the social unrest. Turn the neighborhoods, go to the county, see what's going on there. There's a huge problem. The controlled mass media bombarded our people and bombed them so long with fear of the euro, that the exit from the euro would be a disaster. And what brought us on the eve? Salvation? Neither in our everyday life nor elsewhere did she bring her. Greece has no essential tools to develop its own national policy and strategy. He awaits the demands of foreigners, those who want a poor, enslaved and alienated Greece. This is a very big question to the Greek people. Is that what he wants? The political humiliation is also a social humiliation. Employees, small and medium-sized enterprises, everyone is drowned by the irreversible daily life of unemployment, taxes, low wages. But seeing all this, people have no way out. No party offers them anything else, it does not offer them a way out. Mr. Mitsotakis is a relatively easy opponent for you. Maybe that's what the system wanted. Who knows? Investments do not exist, consumption is weak and will become worse with new taxes, with cuts. The banking system cannot extend credits. The state machine has been decommissioned. Employees and small and medium-sized ones, after so many years and struggles for salvation, listen to reforms and catch them horror, because every time the word'reformation' was heard in that country, other evils came. Greece has changed, ladies and gentlemen, and has changed to the worst. The memorials turned our country into a Balkan state with no substance. Seems like this in migratory. The wages are evaporated before they even get home. We have the most expensive supermarkets. Do you understand that? They work for 20 euros a day. 20 euros a day, with the prices in supermarkets and markets, is a dish for the whole family. No animals or mortgages do that, working for a plate of food. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The struggle for workers has finally become a struggle for one another. We have closed the unhappy world - and I am speaking in the first plural, because we all have a responsibility - to see these channels - not to say a word now - and the only investment we see around us, what is it? Drinks, coffeecoffees, biscuits and sunbeds on the beaches. Sell the public capital, the public property. The Greek has nothing anymore. It is not a solution, ladies and gentlemen, for a virtual increase in wages, as the liberals say, but also for the demands of the Utopians of the Communist Left and your Left. It is a solution to the downfall, because in this country there is a shameful gain. The worst of all, it's that they don't work anymore, police and military. Now you'll see what happens to local government by simply proportional. There is a dissolution of everything, nationalism, problems in the Church. I'm not religious, but I've said it many times, we went to our villages, and what did we see on Sunday morning? A priest, a teacher, a farmkeeper, a ranger. Of all these, there's only the priest left. He's going too! And not only that, the worst of all is that the cockroaches also raised their head. Peoples and peoples who have not bothered us have taken advantage of our homeland. These are things that have angered the Greek people and, unfortunately, we are all insecure, reassured, losing our dignity, losing our soul. God help us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA Member, Mr Marda, I would like to comment, on behalf of the Bureau, on the statement by the Minister of Finance, which, of course, I agree with him, that the budget should be monitored as far as possible by more Members. But, on the other hand, I was the one who presided over the day before yesterday when the MPs protested because there was no Minister to answer their questions. You were one of the justified, because you were abroad. But everyone invokes a workload and the Members tell us: 'Why are our questions not answered?' The Conference of Presidents has repeatedly raised this issue, but on the other hand another aspect is the media. If you notice what the media are transmitting, you will see that they only show that if someone hybrids a Member or there is a dispute between them. This is the main media concern, from the budget or whether the Prime Minister with the Chief of Anti-Population exchanges ideas. This is, unfortunately, the phenomenon and the government and Parliament must see it. In other words, it is a real phenomenon. There's no doubt about it. Please, Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not highlight the positive budgets, which have been clearly highlighted by my dear colleagues. I shall refer to some of the criticisms that have been made. It was heard by both the Chief of Staff Response, as well as the rapporteur on the budget, that we decided in 2015 to get into an unnecessary austerity, so we signed an improper memorandum. The question, which is this: Do the New Democracy colleagues imply that they would have done without a memorandum if they were still government after 2015? Let us see those elements, which could support this position. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I refer to you. Hardouveli has proposed an additional EUR 1.5 billion. This mail was characterised by Mr Tomsen as a set of'mixed' measures and against these measures, the troika had a large total of billions, which appear to be in the primary surpluses of that period. Because of your inconsistency, you did not get the dose of the International Monetary Fund in August at that time. The economy was derailed in 2014. This is not questioned by anyone. The primary surplus was one third of the forecast. The GDP of 2.2%, which was the forecast of the International Monetary Fund, was reduced to 0.7%. Exports, admittedly, went well. Imports were ejected. We had an additional exchange rate or euro of EUR 5 billion, and the investments were paid up by 12%. We all know that when the data of a forecast change, the final forecast changes. Therefore, the EUR 217 billion in 2018, with 2014 data derailed, was unlikely to be approached. Also, in 2015-2016 you had to return EUR 57 billion. Beside memorials, would you? I will not go into the scores given by the various houses, but with the scores you have had in the last two years and with the trend of ratings, the three "B", which are needed to get into quantitative relaxation, it was impossible to reach your own trends of that period. On the other hand, of course, if everything was so well and you were to close, why was there always a shift in the agreement closure since September and we finally reached it in December and January and did not close? But everything was so good, you should have shut down in September and been out of memorials in October. What was needed was another strategy that would lead to another agreement. That is where we had to make an effort, and that is not just what we support. I suppose you will remember the recent report by the European Court of Auditors and the criticism of the European Court of Auditors in the European Commission. The European Court of Auditors is the fourth institution of the European Union. According to his criticism, he considered that the first and second memorandums were extremely inappropriate for the country. I come to a second position of yours, on the newly known European surveillance data, which the Greek economy knows. I do not know whether it is the result of ignorance or the result of a pun, which often exists in politics. Let me remind you that in 2013 we had two Regulations in the European Union, 472 and 473. They were two Regulations which introduced the supervision process of a State that was out of order. In Article 472/2013, Article 14 states precisely: ‘Member States shall remain under supervision after the programme - shall refer to enhanced supervision Regulation 472- if at least 75% of the financial contribution received from the European Union, from Member States or any other institutions has not been paid.’ So you imply that from the EUR 190 billion that you received at the first instalment of 58 billion and the second instalment of 139 billion, would you have reached in 2015, 2016 and 2017 to repay 75% so that you were, if you were a government, except for enhanced supervision? Look, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very good criticism, we are following it and I can tell you that we are taking it into account on a number of points. But we cannot build in myths any economic policy we have in mind. I come to a third point: it has been heard by my dear colleague, the rapporteur, that you will build a friendly environment for investment and use public property. Of course, the question I would like you to answer at some point is this: with the 50 billion use of Zappiion's assets or the fifty billion in the PASOK medium-term programme - at least on page 36, that is noteworthy - what happened? What about this exploitation? You're saying you're gonna make use of public property again. You're saying you're going to unblock private investments. That is quite right and we welcome it. Question: If you were first in this House, for example, the Centro Association, you could say that you do have some intentions, you have a programme and something you can do. Where have you been in the past few years? During the 2005-2009 'fairness' period, during the period you were running - did you govern during the crisis where you were to do all of this, which had no cost? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need thirty more seconds, please. On the other hand, of course, as you know, there is a set of quality elements that regulate and demonstrate the dynamics of the rulings. And here, I would invite you, if you like, to study together on where and when, the origins of political families, heirs of power from their father, led their country to relocation and where they did not lead to destruction or stagnation. I will give you four examples of stagnation or destruction, where family rule has led some countries to this point. The first example is Syria. Assad: Father, son. You can see the results. The second example is India. Idira Gandhi, a descendant of a powerful Nehru dynasty. Stagnation, and in the end he was murdered. In Pakistan, Benazir Bootto with a husband, who also had the reputation of the "master 10%". She was murdered, too. And to come to Bush, the youngest, who did not hurt his country, but the fact that the planet is suffering is a result of the policy of 2003-2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, too. I would like to ask all of us to respect the time and not to violate him, so that we do not reduce the time for the last Members to speak. The speaker of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that everyone spoke ten minutes before you took over. So with your tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u254	I have no tolerance, but I'm trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u255	After all, it may be the last year that someone can oppose SYRIZA's budget, so let's have the pleasure of doing it today. In fact, listening to Mr Marda and Mr Chakaloto, it is a question of knowing what great damage you have done in the last four years. Mr Tsakalato, you just talked to us about whether the New Democracy programme is costly. Are you saying that four years ago you held everything to everyone to steal the vote of the Greek people? There was no Greek from any social group that you didn't have to tell him what he wanted to hear. And you come here to the House to talk to us about a costly programme? Let me tell you something else. Mr. Mitsotakis said a realisticly costed project in Thessaloniki. In fact, Mr Stavros, who previously did not give him the right - not you, but the President - to answer, to write, and said how all this will be done, proposed by Mr Mitsotakis in four years' time. Mr. Chaakalato, this is you government. And we are so long here and none of you - nor you - have even spoken of the countermeasures that you said a few months ago that you would take and legislate. May I remind you, for example, of the employment programme for the thirty thousand young people, which you will put into the budget? We read the pages and they're nowhere. Do you want me to talk to you about reducing the share of those insured? Wasn't that the countermeasure Mr. Tsipras said? Am I wrong? You have to apologise for that, too. You have to tell them, because a few months ago you looked into the eyes of the Greek people and fed them all. And because he's here as well, what do you have to tell us about the heating allowance? You get it 210 million of us and you've gone to 60 million. Mr. Chaakalot, you've come here to give answers. You've come here to apologize, not to shake our finger after four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u256	I asked the man! I didn't shake your finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u257	This year, then, once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating a so-called memorial budget which, of course, is accompanied by many billions of euros. Don't forget that. Last year we had the same thing: festivities for the last Memorandum. I would also remind you that four years ago you did the same thing. You were talking about the last Memorandum of the New Democracy, because you, the next day, would rip the memorials. Do you know what the result is? The result is: Alexis Tsipras, the longest-lived Memorial Prime Minister. It's over and out. And the truth is, you can't live without the memoirs. And this is seen by all the measures that you have taken, from the tax, from the reduction of allowances, such as the allowance for third families, from the cut in EKT, from the twenty-one pension cuts, from the auctions. Don't ask us why. You, anyway, have privileged interlocutors abroad. With Mrs. Merkel and all the other leaders you used to smuggle them in the past, now you're tight hugged and doing everything, Mr. Chakaloto. Like today, I would remind you that you were going out in the squares, dividing the Greek people and feeding everything to everyone. You started off with the tuuli, which would give rhythm to the markets, the shading of the memorials, the proud negotiation. He didn't say anything to us, Mr. Mardas, about the hundred billions that he loaded on the back of the Greek people the first "surprising" half of the negotiation. It is about a hundred billion dollars, which were more burdened with the backs of the poorest layers. And that's not what we say. The European officials say it, all of them, whom you call on, whenever you want to say about a so-called success. You continued with an inappropriate memorandum and you continue with a fourth, hidden this time, memorandum. You've trampled all your red lines into one by one all the slogans that you've come to power. Your failure everywhere followed, even in emergencies like the tragedy in Matty. You know, we need to remind you. We need to remind you of the missing Prime Minister that day, who flew flowers to the river Mostar along with Zafe - that we should not forget these things - when the world was burning up. And he came back to start the announcements again, to keep everything in the wilderness. Of course, a few days ago, Mr. Tsipras himself cynically said to one of the affected: "I didn't give you the 2,000 euros. What are you gonna do with it? You'd ruin it." This is your Prime Minister. Rejoice him! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u258	That's make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u259	For the end, of course, you have kept the best: the Prespecies Agreement, the Macedonian sale, without any guarantee. In fact, you were proud to hear Mr. Zafe say a few days ago: "Now, we have a better chance. Now, we have opportunities for children in Greece to learn Macedonian language. So far, this has been forbidden." Really, what will a neutral observer say when he sees Zafe celebrates? Will he say that the agreement is in favour of Skopje or in favour of Greece? At the same time, Greece is occupied by immigrants. We know why. Of course, you have recently discovered a new enemy, the clergy. We know that you are opposed to everything that has to do with Orthodoxy. We understand that. We see it in everyday life. We did not expect, however, that you would have the courage to want to throw away tens of thousands of clergymen to put tens of thousands of party friends. That's the point. And on the same day, at the same time, your Government, dived up to the head in the scandals, from the almost sale of equipment in Saudi Arabia to the loan pastures against television licences, from the agreement to sell the airport at a cost of less than 650 million from its real value, until the recent DEPA scandal, which, of course, will have the time to answer and apologize for everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And then, of course, you wonder why this populous leader, Mr. Tsipras, cannot be released on his own unless he has accompanying MAT bells. I was surprised that he came to Tripoli to know after all these years that there are slugs on my side in Moria's capital. Where everyone is free, Mr. Tsipras to pass someone needed face control, was afraid to be released into Tripoli. That's your leader. Well, celebrating, I think it's really funny, and of course, you can't talk about a hundred days government and get forgiveness for the four years that have passed. You have received a country that came out to normality and delivered in a few months a clear vine country. Comparisons are many. In four years, Mr Chakalote, our government had brought more than 37 billion investments. You guys know what you brought in. We have made the first reductions in tax rates, such as the excise duty on oil, such as the focus VAT, such as 30% reduction in the special solidarity levy, while you are answering them: taxes, taxes, taxes. Right now, we all see things happening around us. The public’s dues are to God, the liquidity in extinction and, of course, the only thing that is not under extinction is, unfortunately, your courage and cynicism. That's what stays steady. Obviously, you in the ministerial seats, like the average Greek, because he is afflicted by the prolonged economic crisis, will not deal with indicators, figures and percentages.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u260	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just want to say two phrases. Of course, you recognize that every Greek citizen every night looks at what he has in his pocket, every end of the month he looks at what is in his bank account, which is usually empty. And now, you should know that the Greeks have decided on the next day. And as much as you're trying to keep in the government's headquarters for one, for two, for three, for six months, the future, unfortunately, for you is predetermined. All that is not predetermined is what you will do in these months to sell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u262	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u263	One final sentence, Mr President. And no matter how scandalous you are, no matter how much you put everything to everyone - because you know the Greeks, unfortunately, we can easily forget and it is one of the people's negatives - but know that we never forget the one who played with our hope and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u266	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u267	I think you will agree with me, Mr President, that I did not shake the finger on anyone I asked a second question: 'How much would you like to spend 2019?' Before, Mr. Stavros replied that I could find them in public. I would like to hear it in the House, so that I can make my speech, not tell me after that I found the wrong number. I'm here, you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u268	Answer us for the countermeasures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u269	I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt you. I think I asked you a very kind question. In 2019, how much do you think we should spend? Over 920 when we spend less than double? It's just a question. I think it is a reasonable question when they are confronted with our own budget that we spend a little, we spend a lot, we spend a lot, we know, what that figure is. I don't think I'm asking for much. And in thirty seconds - because you interrupted me - I would say: did you say or didn't say in 2017 in the summer and 2017 in the autumn that there are no countermeasures, that they are fantasies? Did you say it or didn't you say it? I'm lying? And you and PASOK did not say that there are no countermeasures and now you say to me: 'Where did the countermeasures go?' And I say that we countermeasures will be done in four years instead of two years and we will not reduce pensions. Do you want to reduce pensions to do two years? Can we have an answer to that? If you did this budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u270	I didn't interrupt, don't interrupt me. If you were government, can I have a clear answer in your budget? - to reduce or not reduce pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u272	I would be happy to do so, Mr Tindemans, but I would ask you not to continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u273	I would not take the floor, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is the following: it is a process with too many speakers. If we turn this process into a dialogue between the Ministry of Finance and each speaker, we will never finish. And if the Minister for Finance has the impression that this is a kind of tutorial, in which he can ask each speaker on the third month of the fourth year of New Democracy's Fifth Governance, how much money you will get from VAT and how much money you will waste on pensions and tell me right now, this is not serious. There is the overall proposal, which has been tabled. I would be happy to respond fully to Mr Tsakaloto. If he wants to identify a specific month of New Democracy spending, I should like to reply to him in the month as well, as long as he determines the month, do not say another month and then tell me that the placement is not accurate. However, to continue his little 'question - I answer' to our every speaker - does not help, Minister. It really doesn't help. As far as the issue of the budget is concerned - why am I standing here, this is important - what you said to us, you asked us earlier, 'What are you going to do about pensions'? What can we say? We've been placed in the most appropriate way. We have tabled an amendment to the non-reduction of pensions, so our intention of working was not to reduce pensions. What you forsake us and the Prime Minister has also given us what is it? Mr Hatzidakis' straight question to Mr Moscovisi: 'Tell us what view you have of responding to you as well'. However, our position with regard to the Greek people - I say again - was very clear, with the tabling of this amendment, which you then voted against. So why the question to my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u274	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I want the floor for fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u276	Yes, but let's close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u277	Fifteen seconds, count them. Mr. Teddy, I've been here since 14:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u278	I mean, you're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u279	There was another Minister before me. Why are you interrupting me? Did I interrupt you when you were talking? Why are you all interrupting New Democracy? I've been here since 14:00 and it's a question of whether in total I've spoken five minutes. That's how it used to be in the discussions by the ministers? I'm the Minister of Finance, I'm here four and a half hours and I've done two interventions, which I don't think are over five minutes. Therefore, your remarks are not constantly being discussed, I think it is extremely excessive and only for impressions. I asked a very serious question and even what you will spend in 2019 I have no idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u280	You just caught me up, Mr. Dendia. I was going to say that this dialogue is not going to take place on the argument that you brought about a constant...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u281	The wicked Minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u282	You understand that. My request therefore is that no personal questions should be asked so that the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative can be given time to answer the self-evident questions or questions raised by the ministers to Parliament, to the Members, not personal questions. I would like to ask Mr Petroulos, State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, to respect this year, the seven-minute proviso under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. There is a constantly repeated speech on the part of Officerial Response, and this betrays the author, who deliberately dictates this identical position of the MPs of Officerial Response. A very important debate, which should take place on the budget of the country, that is to say it also has evidence of the fate of our people, about the country's prospect, is exhausted in references to European Union institutions and foreign policy. You hide the real consequences of previous policies, which are revealing too. And after all - because you are sensitive, you must see what the past has taught us so that it will not be repeated in the future. What is it that you propose differently, which our Government should have done during the period of own governance? Because our own programmes, as they have evolved, and the budgets we have tabled, have been met in full. And that's an account of honor for our government. All our predictions have succeeded. Every budget, which we have tabled, has been kept in full. Our positions were responsible every year and were confirmed in the results we had predicted. If you do the trouble - because I do not think you will be interested in seeing what we were talking about, so that, in essence, you could contradict us in relation to what we said - you would see that speeches, every year that I spoke about the budgets of previous years, I predicted the development that we had. I anticipated positive developments in social security, surpluses and even spectacular results were better than I anticipated. That was the reason, not to cut pensions. Since my speech last year, I have said that pension cuts are not going to take place. This time last year, December 2017, I said there would be no pension cuts in 2018, because we would have high surpluses, over 1,200,000. However, you, this simple and reasonable one, which comes out with the understanding that every single man of a true truth has, is attributed to the agreement with the leaders of the European Union on the issues of the name of the neighbouring country. Are these serious things? Honestly, I was hearing you say that, and indeed, the Chief of Officer's Response would say that. What exactly is it afflicting the leaders of the European Union? Does he accuse them of cooperating with SYRIZA to fool the Greek people? Did the executives co-operate with all the wings of the political perceptions that exist, so that SYRIZA could intercept the Greek people's vote and re-elect the government? So, that's your fear? You're really afraid of it and it looks like what you're saying. Your fear is that you will also lose these elections, because we have done what we have done. And because what we have said we have done, and you cannot contradict it in reasonable terms, you have to say that it is a late predatory ahead of the elections, which will normally take place in October 2019. So when should a government stop producing work for its people, which month exactly? Are you going to tell us? Because normally, Greece has been in elections since that government emerged in September 2015. Every six months, at least, and as long as you could do the suggestions of form for the government to fall, we had elections. We should never do, in that sense you give, any provision to the Greek people, to whom we owe and have not repaid our debt to benefits, which we must give, because it has sighed, kneeled in the past few years. As shown by the results of the economic situation, it was years of your own destruction. Mr. Tendas, you cannot speak, who had created the well-known law Treasury to alleviate companies that were bankrupt when only three companies entered the process of this law. And we, who are Marxists - Leninists - you are capitalists and you have a very good view of the economy and you support entrepreneurship, three businesses are wrong to put and I do not know whether they have completed their debts - continuously, uninterruptedly, we are struggling, trying to find measures to facilitate business, relieve the debtors. We are constantly making arrangements and we will continue to do so. I assure you that in both the first quarter and the first quarter and the next months, until our term of office is completed, we will take measures to alleviate the debtors who have slain, with 97% of the debtors being created before 2015, by your own policies. And this debt of 30 billion to the FBI is a result of your own policies. Since I have no time to finish with some false reports that, unfortunately, you are still doing, what cuts our government has made. They are all, but all, the result of politicians, which you had already announced. There are provisions that you have voted on all these issues. You have, of course, been baptized 'cut-off', for example, and the fact that the supplementary pension contribution was increased by 0.5% from the employer to the worker, which means that it increases his pension, is not a harm to that worker, and 0.5%, of course, from him, which he takes as a pension, takes it as an increase. I did not understand how you were also aware of health participation, which from EUR 145 million in 2014 for our hospitals, we exceeded 570 million, so that we have a stronger health situation and health care benefits that we owe our people. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because there are too many things I would like to say, I will have to write about these lies soon, because you repeat them and you are not ashamed to repeat them. You said that our government made twenty-two cuts, yesterday Mr Brutsi made them seventeen. I will explain to you how much these cuts are and why they were caused by you. I have to do so - and I have to do so - and I have to finish with one point: the amount of subsidiary, the one one from our own policy and what would be from the policy of the New Democracy and the PASOK. The list is big. Let us take as an example the thirty-five years of insurance, thirty-eight years of insurance and forty years of insurance. Under our law, supplementary pensions - on its minimum basis, at EUR 586, I am not talking about large contributions, because it is increasing - for the thirty-five years it is EUR 140, while the Brutsis Act is EUR 80. In the thirty-eight years it is 160 euros, while the Brutsi Act is 91 euros. In forty years we have taxes of EUR 176, while the Brutsi Act is 100 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u284	Please, Mr. Petropoulou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u285	With regard to the one - and I shall end with that, Mr President - in thirty-five years is 18,900, measured things, the one with our own law, while it is 10,821 with the Brutsis Act. In the thirty-eight years it is 21,841 euros with our law, while it is 12,449 with the Brutsi Act. In forty years it is 23,896 euros with our law, while it is 13,000 with the Brutsi Act. Is that what you want to rescue, this disaster, if our government comes and maintains - which will increase - all these benefits, measured by the collapse of pensions? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I call on the Greek people to get hampered and all these organisations, those who are still alive, to take the case in their hands, not to have the moment when the Greeks will see the great collapse in pensions, which will come with certainty if your government comes to things. That is why - rightly says Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots - you are not telling us what percentage you would have for the country, to compare the two budgets, the one you do not want and the one you promise the Greek people, the death of pensioners, to reduce pensions from the first year by EUR 2.5 billion? At last, tell the truth. When the budget is being discussed in the country, once a year, we must have at least one sincere treatment of things before the Greek people and the oath, which we have all given for the country together. Which country, at last, do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u288	In accordance with Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to speak for a minute, to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u289	You can ask a question, but don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u290	I won't. I'm going to ask a question and I'm waiting for an answer. Minister, one question on the budget. From the Centre for Insurance Contributions we read that in 2014 the outstanding debts were 11,500,000,000, and now 2018 is 34,400,000,000. And the debtors, out of two hundred twenty thousand six hundred fifteen, became one million four hundred thousand and ninety one. Therefore, the outstanding debts have tripled and the debtors have spread. Please an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u292	Minister, I would ask you to respond to your position on the part of the Government. Because we're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u293	Of course, Mr President, from my point of view. It's too easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u294	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u295	Wait a minute. I don't want time. The CRL report mentions the reasons and I have also spoken publicly from the House, several times, on this subject. In other words, the integration of individual insurers has brought the debts together. That is what the CRL report says. If you read it, it explains why this is happening. Unfortunately, there are still several debts outside the CRLs to the individual entities. The OAU, for example, has debts that are still regulated within the old system. This will be increased, Mr Loverdos, but it will be increased because it comes from the other bodies, where all these debts were and there they were served, within the CRL, so that the extrajudicial compromise can proceed better. Because people really choose it and they want it anymore. I have already said this since 2016, which I had adopted a ministerial decision, which I said - December 2016 - in view of the operation of the EBRD in 2017, to gather from all the former operators all debts to the CRL. That's why there is. The debtors did not increase. The existing debts have been accumulated within the CRL and several more are still missing. The number will be increased, but by existing debtors and not by debtors created by our own policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u296	Please, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with your extreme and marketed political speech many times, your responsibilities for the bankruptcy of our country are not deleted. The Greek people know your words and works very well. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in ten years, there are no words in the budget debate: recession, austerity, cuts and cuts. On the contrary, they return with momentum and dominate the words of growth, increases and reductions. Citizens and households can now plan and plan their lives and see their future with optimism. But companies can also make use of the economic stability and the most favourable environment that has been created. Without a doubt, the exit from the memorial and comitology went through sacrifices and difficult paths for the entire Greek society. It is, however, a reality for which we can fairly all be satisfied that we support this government. The restoration of many individual injustices with the bills, which we voted on and are implementing the Prime Minister's announcements, is the beginning of the process in the memorandum era. On the roadmap, which leads to fair growth, a major station is the 2019 budget. Firstly, because it confirms the return of the page and, secondly, because it is the basis for further regaining our country's sovereignty, the rights of workers, and the better prospects of their incomes. Of course, the transitional period that we are experiencing is characterised, I would say, by a standstill attitude of many of our fellow citizens, which is linked to the formulation of the new economic and social model. And it's normal for a while, the old coexist with the new one. What is not normal is the attitude of counterpopulation, particularly the parties of the old political system. They paraphrase their undermining tactics, as shown by pensions. They present the reality with black colors. They try to panic citizens and despise the government's work with make news. They are reproaching national issues and say nothing about their personal intentions, which are socially and class-specific, at the expense of the vast majority of our people. Our strategic plan for the development of the country is under way and is already bearing fruit. It's a Greek plan, it's our plan. On the contrary, Mr Mitsotakis' plan is a memorandum, such as that of Mr Stournara, which said from the Step of the House that the only project that the country has is the memorandum. It includes gradual declaring of the Memorandum of Understanding, simplifying and rationalising the tax system in a fair way, strengthening productive reconstruction, exploiting all available resources, creating a friendly business environment. To be clear about entrepreneurship, whether it relates to the private sector or to the public or the social sector, clear rules are needed, which we have formulated, the reduction of the bureaucracy we are pursuing, the dissemination of knowledge and innovation that we have ensured with the reform areas in education and research. Ladies and gentlemen, no one believed it, but it is a fact. The social state has returned in difficult circumstances. The humanitarian crisis is now a dark past that haunts the New Democracy and the socially-liberal. The vulnerable groups are protected through a circle of actions and funding, which citizens may not listen and not read in newspapers and televisions, but they see in their lives and daily lives. The three billion from the CRL and the social dividend total over a three-year period. The two hundred and forty community centres, in which citizens can be informed of all social benefits. The hundred family support centres that will practically support children and families. The 50 million euros for the fifty-three thousand hot meals in ninety-five schools throughout the country. The increase in kindergartens and the number of children entering them free of charge, as well as the recruitment of three thousand two hundred permanent people in the "Help to Home". EUR 780 million for two hundred and fifteen thousand unemployed, contributing to the decline of unemployment from 27.5% in 2015 to 18.9% in 2018. The holistic action plan for the social inclusion of the Roma. The gradual reopening of camps, which have been closed for many years. Strengthening the special treatment with four and a half thousand teachers hired. Specialised social inclusion programmes for disabled persons. No one expected it, but it's a fact. The rural world has taken great breath with the favourable tax and insurance measures that we have taken. The development of the primary sector is moving at a rapid pace and will accelerate even faster by implementing the ESDP projects and making use of the institutional framework for cooperation and producer groups. No one imagined it, but tourism took off, along with the huge increase in arrivals and revenues. All economic figures have improved considerably, reflecting the decline in unemployment, the increase in employment, the increase in production and consumption. If this is not understood by opposition within the election campaign, the Greek people see it clearly. Regularity in society and the economy is a dominant feature of reality. This must also go to the public space, the political speech of the political parties and the parties. It is time, in particular, for parties claiming to appear progressively, for them to harmonise their policy and alliances with the social project for full employment and a fair wage for work, full labour and social rights, essential social justice and solidarity, with the need for collective function, democratic participation and enlargement of democratic institutions, with the responsibility for defending the country's homeland and upgrading the geopolitical position. It is precisely in this context that SYRIZA moves and has the practical support of the Greek people. The budget, which we call on the House to vote for, is a key point in the path towards fair growth, but also a meeting point for all the creative forces in our country, namely the forces, which over time support the demand for national independence, popular sovereignty and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with Mr Jelloney, Member of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Assent. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. ‘National independence’ and ‘social justice’. You steal and continue to invoke the slogans of PASOK, only you are a very bad imitation of PASOK in everything. In particular, in your policies. Listening...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u300	I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Contony, I'm not interrupting you. Mr President, bring the colleague back to class! Listening to the speakers of the government majority, I think that the delusional ones came back, such as in 2004 when the Greek people were going to be brought to heaven and they would solve everything, so now for 2019. And we are discussing the fourth Memorandum of Understanding by SYRIZA - ANEL. You're not from virginity anymore to everything. It is a budget that confirms the commitments made by the government and takes away significant space from growth. It is a budget, which continues to be extreme austerity, barbaric taxation, and that also results in anti-developmental. It moves back into a dead-end logic that decays the economy and destroys society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a failure for this economic model based on overtaxation through the worst form of austerity that you discovered, the surpluses, cuts and bleeding the incomes of Greek citizens, leading them to impoverishment. But we have no selective memory to forget the four years you are ruling and to remember now in the last hundred days. What have you done these four years? Potential GDP loss by 20 billion. Increased public debt by 17.5 billion. Increased dues to the public by 30 billion. Increased dues to social security institutions by 22.4 billion. Increased number of non-performing loans at 48.5% and negative investment balance at -8.8. We have a negative impact on this because the production tissue is not replaced. The depreciation is higher than investment, and this is the destruction of our country's production base, as well as we have a negative balance between stable and rotating new jobs. You come today, while the Greek people are diagnosed and struggling every day for their survival, speaking and celebrating for normality and clean exit. What regularity? Returning to normality, Minister, goes through recovering confidence in our economy from international markets. Is that something like that? You are also talking about an expansive 2019 budget. Let's see how expansive he is. Yes, he is extensive in terms of taxes on goods and services, which are increased by 202 million. It is extensive in terms of value added tax, which is increased by 141 million. It is expansive, because excise duties are increased by 87 million. He is expansive, because income taxes are increased by 152 million. We also have a reduction in expenditure in the 2019 budget on pensions and unemployment benefits from you to the ‘left of caviar’. I would now like to place myself in relation to an important sector of the economy which is the primary sector, which is counting four years of abandonment, and the agricultural sector four years feels contemptible by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The 2019 budget adds another lost time. This sense of stagnation and regression is generalised. However, in the case of rural and rural areas, it costs much more and multiples. Rural declining poses a serious threat to our national and social cohesion and it must immediately, here and now, stop and the tendency to reverse. Agriculture and livestock is a production activity with great potential and contributes to the central demand of our country which is growth. Unfortunately, the government was unable to plan the agricultural issue and did not even keep things where it found them. On the one hand, we have not seen and heard nothing about land policy, age renewal, the oligopoly that controls inputs. But we saw the big irrigation sticking up and still waiting for permissions. Cooperatives try hard. We have seen taxes on agricultural income escalate, as have insurance contributions. The energy costs increased and the dissolution of ELGO also led to a rapid increase in illegal Greekisations, bringing farmers to despair. We see the Rural Development Programme standing, and it should normally have absorbed 100% of all Community programmes. On the contrary, we see that payments for public expenditure amount to 1750 000 000, i.e. a absorption of 31.9% and a Community contribution of 1.571 000, with a absorption of 33.3%. We have measures that have zero absorption. Agricultural budget advice 100 million zero-absorption. Rehabilitation of agricultural production potential affected by natural disasters, zero absorption. Establishment of a producer organisation group, zero absorption. Aid under NATURA, zero. Budget innovation partnership of 70 million, zero absorption. And we see in the regular budget of the Ministry of Rural Development the sum entered in 2018 being 401,762,000. Today, in 2019, the budget is 258.430,000. We have a reduction in the Ministry of Rural Development's regular budget of about 35%. An increase in the Public Investment Programme is presented. We agree, but when we see the reduction in the ordinary budget, when most of the expenditure is inappropriate, where is the reduction going to take place? Only by the checks that the Ministry needs so much. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are the ones who continue the policy with a look at the primary sector and the Greek farms, which is why we have recently announced a number of measures to support agricultural income and the Greek farmer: the establishment of a single tax rate of 13% for agricultural incomes and the duty-free use of the common agricultural policy aid up to EUR 20,000. Disconnection of insurance contributions from farmers from taxable income with eight scales, on the first scale of 100 euros and over 400 euros. Reinforcement of collective organisations, incentives to farmers organised, the introduction of a special irresponsible bank account, the introduction of a farm oil card, the recalculation and settlement of debts to the OGA up to EUR 10,000 to facilitate retirement. Exemption from a reduction in pension due to agricultural activity and redefinition of the ELGA regulation. In conclusion, I would like to say that the end of this government is approaching. Your economic, social and political indicators show clearly that your own path, your own clean exit from the government, is ready to wait for you, because you have led the country to a complete deadlock and society in conditions of impoverishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Drama High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] After Mr. Jelloney, the speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsironis, has spoken for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. Because opposition can't do budget data, destruction continues. And there are a lot of destructive waves that you've never apologized for. At first, we would have no health paper, then the evaluations would not be closed, then pensions would be reduced, and now, of course, we are still in a memorandum and we have discovered this. I'll just say one thing about the Macedonian. The mere fact that the Chief of Officerial Response insists on cheating the Greek people, using the word "ethnicity", which is not contained in the Prespecies Agreement, shows the impossibility of exercising a serious opposition and, above all, of course, the desire to terrorize the Greek people. I'm starting with the disasters one by one. Are we still in a memorial? What's your point? That we cannot get out of the market because we have too much interest rates. So listen to the interest rates that you would have gone out on the markets at the time of the success story. It was 9.74% the maximum yield of the interest rate ten years, 5.53% the minimum. You were moving to interest rates of 6.87%. We're talking about ten-year yields. We're with a maximum of 4,96%. You risk as soon as we go to 4,40%, a minimum of 3,6% and an average interest rate of 4,18%. So we're unable to go out on the markets at 4,18% average interest rate. But you would go out and have no unnecessary memorandum with 6.87%. Let's go down. What interest rates were you borrowing and charging the Greek people before the crisis? In 2007-2008, in that two-year period, the maximum was 6.18%, the minimum 4,14%, the average interest rate of 4,82%. But to get out on the markets, only the interest rate counts? Oh, no. We need to put some money in the band. Every single person knows that when he owes, he's putting a little bit on the band. Let's see what you put in the band. I will read your own budget in December 2014, which you voted for. Mr. Hardouvelis signed him in November 2015. So I read that you only had to pay that budget in 2015 for 5.9 billion. So you had to leave the band 5.9 billion dollars. Do you know how much money you left in the band in 2014? Half a billion. Where would you find the other 5.5 billion? Would you fire? Would you cut pensions? Would you cut wages? Do you realize what it means in a year of 5.5 billion? I'm not talking about the 20 billion dollars that were bond terminations. We're only talking about interest. I can assure you, therefore, that if you measure our own evil memorandum all the years - you say it eleven, but it is nine, it is all right, your eleven - you in only one year had to find more than 5.5 billion for interest that you did not have. And that's why you ran off like rabbits, and that's why you did the elections to shut the cannon in our own hands. Let's go to the second catastrophe. A shadow lies above the economy. Large surpluses, the people in debt for the next sixty-seven years. Indeed, a shadow lies above our economy. Let's not hide it. It's the shadow of debt, the public debt you charged to the Greek people. For 2009, you charged him 330 billion. In 2012, it fell with the PSI, that is, you robbed our funds and the confessors - that's what you did - and fell to 304 billion. But do you know what debt you received? Please, I'm tabling for the Minutes. This is the debt curve from the budgets you signed. We received a debt from the "Samarovenizelas" of EUR 319,7 billion. You claim, of course, that we destroyed the economy in the first half of the year and we charged, another says 30, another says 80, another says 200 billion. Strangely enough, however, this year's debt is at 317,4. He didn't grow. How did we charge the economy? If we had charged her, they'd be gone somewhere. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. Since the debt has not increased, we now go to the future surpluses to see what the crown of your destructive documentation is. You never systematically compare - look at all your speakers - your things with our things. Do you always compare what? What SYRIZA said when it was Opposition or compared with Ireland and Portugal. However, Ireland and Portugal never had a debt of 180% of GDP. Their production had never collapsed to 15% which had collapsed over your days, the primary and secondary sectors together only 15%. You lived in loan. You cheated on the Greek people in loan. That is why, because you do not dare compare, you have a ridiculous argument about our budget, that last year it had calculated a GDP of 2.4%, and it is not 2.4%, but it will be 2.1%, i.e. that of 0.3%, 0.1%. Let's see and compare some of your data? In 2014, therefore, your government had estimated GDP of 183,1 billion. You've achieved 175.5 billion. That's 8 billion. 5% of GDP is 8 billion. I'm asking you quite simply: You get hot when we fall out. Because the budget is natural to fall out. They're changing the data. To fall out 0,5 or 1 is normal, but not to fall out too much. Unemployment. You had for 2013 predicted 14.3% and went 27%. I mean, six hundred thousand more unemployed. These aren't numbers, they're human. Plugs. You were committed - in 2014 I already mentioned it - in 2011 and in 2012 you said a surplus of 2.1% and achieved a deficit of 2.8 billion. Only $5 billion wrong. Investments. You keep talking about investments and that we are the ones who are firing out investments. So, how do we get rid of the investments? For 2013, which was your good year that we were going to go out to development, you had estimated an investment increase of 1.1% and had -9.25%. In other words, about 10% less investment. Investors like rabbits left, because you don't call investors the people who put money out of their pockets, risk. You call your customers, the people who use Greek people's money, the state's money. That's what you call investors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's go to the Public Investment Program. This is the fourth disaster. The Public Investment Programme has indeed been housed, because in your own programmes we had twice and four times the debt on the motorways. We're going to the dues, you're saying we didn't close them? Do you know what it says - and I put it in the Minutes - your budget text? In the 2014 budget, i.e. 2015, voted in 2014: ‘So until the end of 2014, it is estimated that the entities will have been financed with the total amount of approximately EUR 8 billion for the repayment of outstanding liabilities to third parties’. You would have zeroed it and had a funding it says. We received 3,777,000,000 euros and now it is 2,700,000 euros. We received 3,700,000,000, etc. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the indicators of industrial production. This is the bottom, in 2014, your success story and these are the net inputs, the foreign inputs, which are 3,204,000 euros. I have here to submit all these data in comparison. I want to hang up with the environment. I'll just mention a number. This year, the administration of NATURA is quadruple. Let me remind you that the NATURA bodies have 200 billion turnover in Europe, but you have left it in obscurity. Now it's 2.2 billion in our budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Chironi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u305	I'm done. Do you know how much you had? Zero. You didn't even have one euro. I'll close the taxes, Mr. President. You keep saying that we have destroyed the Greek people with taxes. I see an average increase in direct taxes in our years in relation to yours 224 million - we have hit tax evasion - and indirect taxes of 947 million. Calculate in there and the successes of the AACC to understand that there is no increase in taxes. From your mind is this to terrorize the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, please testify for the time being to private individuals. Mr. Chironi, leave them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u308	Here, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling the Minutes: this is the indicator, it is the unemployment rate, your budgets, here are your surpluses, and here are the investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u309	We shall proceed with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Kavvada, with the request for respect for the time of the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the truth is a unique one and no one can question it. The Greek people know it very well. In 2014, then, in the Exhibition of Thessaloniki you announced benefits and reductions in taxes of EUR 12 billion and the years you govern you charged the Greek people EUR 100 billion and took measures of EUR 9.5 billion. This is the truth and the Greek people know it. Mr President, today we are debating the fourth budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a budget of austerity, which unfortunately repeats the same mistakes and follows the same distorting practice in recent years. Because, unfortunately, the government is also consciously opting for 2019 to keep the remaining taxes and to deprive the country of any real development perspective. We are therefore talking about an anti-development budget which does not give the necessary breath to the economy. Even the fragmentary and far-reaching tax reduction cannot change the 2019 negative budget development mark. We've told you all about it. The budgetary over-performance you are proud of, the surpluses you are insisting on, is the result of a completely wrong policy, a policy that deprives the necessary liquidity from the economy and has depleted the people's available income. The already limited Public Investment Programme is being cut further, and even by EUR 550 million, in order to finance a dangerous economic policy recipe for the country, an ideological policy that prefers to give bonuses, instead of giving impetus and motivation to the free economy, rather than supporting the private sector and helping it grow and create new jobs. For this reason, you are consciously continuing the internal payment stop, as the public's overdue debts to private individuals remain stable at EUR 2.6 billion, and should have been zeroed in August together with the end of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, our economy does not need benefits. Citizens must not and do not want to be hostages of your election gifts. They need jobs, from opportunities to breathe, they want to live with dignity and create. But it seems that you want citizens to be fully dependent and subordinate to your micro-group strategies. And these days, probably because of Christmas, you have re-weared the philanthropist's mask to share a tip that comes from their own income and from the tax storm that you have imposed on the economy and the citizens. Let me remind you of something, 'cause you seem to have forgotten about it. There are only taxpayers' money and that's what you manage. So stop acting like the public purse is your wallet. It's not. Stop adopting past practices that giggled the public sector and led us where they led us. Stop trying to quickly set up a party state, because you are continuing a policy taken out of the past, older than the old. Ladies and gentlemen, after four years of co-government society knows, citizens know and understand that your main concern is the creation of a poor society that depends on benefits. They know that you fooled them with false promises, that you broke up the middle class, and that in your policy you made the poorer. They know that you have put the economy in recession and that you have made fiscal policy with overtaxation. They know that you have made negative speeches, that you have done away with the EVS, that you have reduced by 35% the main and 45% supplementary pensions for all new pensioners, that you have promised the public property for ninety-nine years and that you have committed yourself to gross surpluses by 2022 and for heavy liabilities by 2060. They know that you have imposed twenty-nine new taxes in just four years, which has depleted the citizens' available income and made their debts and debts gigantic. Ladies and gentlemen, within these four years you have taken too many of many, to finally give very few. And while he shares crumbs, you are late to give the pensions to the new pensioners and you condemn them to beggar and intolerability. You imposed austerity measures totalling EUR 9.5 billion and you are now returning to a portion of citizens of about 1 billion. You have, in other words, taken almost 10 euros from the citizens' pockets and given back to a few euros, which will have no positive impact on growth. Because in fact, those who get your allowance, your pocket, are the biggest victims of your policy, are our fellow citizens who struggle every day and deny everything, just to take them for a walk, to meet their obligations and survive. Ladies and gentlemen, our country needs an economic policy change immediately, a policy that does not prejudge the party interest, but the interests of the country, a realistic plan that will reduce taxes, which will support growth and enable new jobs to be created. A plan that will improve productivity and competitiveness and release the creative forces of our economy. This is the plan proposed by the New Democracy and will be implemented on the first day of its governance. To conclude, I should also like to note something positive about the draft budget that we are debating these days. The only positive element in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is your last. Because in a few months' time, the people will give you the answer you deserve and send you once and for all to the headquarters of the Anti-Population Officer. So you realise that, for all these reasons, I will not vote for the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, too. Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for eight minutes under the Rules of Procedure. Please for respect in time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is indeed a milestone. It is the first budget of the country, which, after successive economic adjustment programmes, enables the country to design itself, to be able to draw up its future and deliver the result of work to all Greeks, as it belonged to them and as it has been undemocratically limited for so many years. We are entering a new reality, away from the ghosts of the past that have bankrupt the country, but also away from the sirens, which unfortunately, wherever they are, they say that the country does not succeed - and that shows how, if you like, national responsibility. It took a very long period of three years, a period that had to resurrect the economy, an economy and a country where the previous governments had plundered it, plundering the hope of the citizens and, if you like, creating the greatest problem that is lack of strategy. Because the only strategy that has existed in the country in recent years has been how the system's best friends and the canalarchs, who have played at the expense of the Greeks and on the backs of the Greeks. It took a referendum in order to be able to change the proposal that we had submitted to us, to create a route that had a way out. It turns out now how we used the Greeks' decision to have a safe exit route. Austerity measures were also needed - unnecessarily - imposed by lenders in agreement several times with the interior troika. But we did it. We managed to record for the third year a surplus, get out of the memoranda, change the mix of fiscal policy and strengthen households' available income, restored inequalities in social policy and protection. And that's our difference. We are introducing and implementing different policies. We have a different starting point and political and moral. We don't play with human life and dignity. We respect the work of people and the advancement, because, above all, honesty and dignity are now being applied in Greece. Our goal is to end the memorials to give another perspective to growth, give way and space to growth with real work, with real product, with real prospects. And all options, which are voted on in the last month and which exist in the 2019 budget, prove this. No pension cut. Rehabilitation and support for vulnerable groups. Substantial implementation of 'Help at Home'. Eighteen years have elapsed for these workers to find a real route in life. Rental subsidy. Reduction of HISBIA. Reduction of social security contributions for young people. Reduction of insurance contributions for scientists and entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and traders. Exemption of trade fee. Removal of the wine tax. Reduction of corporate taxation. All this, you know, a year ago it seemed incredible, miracles appeared and yet, this miracle was done by all Greeks who worked together. An effort is made to present all this as benefits from publications. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? First of all, those who call these measures hide the country's attempt to get out of the crisis. They hide and underestimate the work of the Greeks. They alter and offend the country's image abroad, because they always want this country to have the retrieval of Psoroccostanna, but this country can do it. Greece today, with its fiscal policy, with its development and social policy, with its foreign policy, has regained its role and these measures are proof of the country's ability to do so, of Greece's ability to do so. And I challenge the New Democracy and its Parliamentary Representative here today to take a position: to not cut pensions is proof that the budget can cover this amount? Is it proof of a financial surplus? Is it proof of the country's ability to go well? Because it has two possibilities and two options: Or say that the country cannot go well, devaluing the Greeks or saying that the government has actually achieved this with this policy mix. I would like to make it clear to you that the reference to codification also means something very dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, and I want to make it clear. It suggests their willingness to take all these measures back, because they are considered benefits, they are not considered to be the conquest of Greece and the conquest of society. And I want them to take a stand on this, too: will they take all these measures that the government has voted on in any event? Of course, the Greek people are not doing them a favor, because they know they are dangerous, and that is why. And because they do not have the opportunity to question it from a position of government responsibility, they settle the connections, even choosing Mr. Weber, the most reluctant to the politicians placed in the European Parliament, to create other ignorances in the country's course and they will also be invited to their conference. So to tell him all that Mr Webber is going to change nothing from the policy mix for the benefit of the Greeks, because they are not benefits, they are permanent choices that will continue and be extended. And that is their fear, because the political situation in Greece is changing. These measures are the apparent political imprint of the changes that this government has achieved and prove what we could achieve and what you have deprived us of, of what you have deprived our children. You have deprived them of the right to go well and have promised the future of some generations that you sent them abroad. Because Greece could have a route of prosperity and progress and it is your policy that has been deprived of this choice. And now it turns out that things could be done differently. New Democracy and PASOK have to some extent sought to become a central theme of pensions. What for? First of all, because they wanted Alexis Tsipras and the government to bear political costs. Secondly, because they wanted to set up the carpet of austerity, to make cuts permanent. This has not been the case with their policy and with the proposal for a credit line in a very nice alliance? Mr. Stournaras, Mr. Venizelos, New Democracy, various few-government and thinking centres in Greece wanted to put a new memorandum from the back door. This is your political choice. It's a constant choice: new burdens on citizens. But be careful, their political weakness is now apparent - and let us keep this. They dare not say their opinion. They're trying to put the memorial on the back door. Let them come out, let them speak, please. Is neoliberalism a political majority now in Greece? No, ladies and gentlemen. He's been defeated, and they don't dare say it either. Progressive policies are now a majority, because the Greeks see it being implemented. What did the pension cut prove? First of all, there is political gain for the government. It's still a denial. The cutter has been disproved, the parentheses have been disproved, the fourth memorandum has been disproved. It is the smallest joke of Postmultiple: If there is a fourth memorandum, how is pensions cut and not cut? You can answer that. Is it possible with a fourth memorandum that pensions should not be cut? But the policy framework also changes. There is a progressive philosophical agenda. There are collective negotiations, for example. There are political commitments to public goods, such as health, education and welfare, which do not come back and are very disturbing, because their scenario of returning to power is actually being removed. That's the worst part. That's why this furious behavior, this extreme right identity that emerges everywhere. That is why new alliances with strange economic and publishing centres. And who knows what trade you've given from now on. You can imagine what might have happened, ladies and gentlemen, if the people ever let them come back to power, since they have sold national and popular interests to canalarchs and have played the game of false headlines since now because they are present. But we have not only managed to change this situation, but also to introduce the environment as a key element of policy, because we want real product, long-term work, sustainable development, quality of life, sufficient resources in our country. That is why all these major changes, so that the environment can also enter as part of the policy, because the budget has built up the environment as an element of productive reconstruction, as an element of public service costs. Giannis Tsironis said earlier that for the first time in Greek history, the cost of operating the environmental management bodies is covered by the state budget. Even a single euro had not been provided by the state budget. This is why there are now forest maps, which is why there is a national strategy to produce a national product. That is why the proposal for a law on settlements has been made. I have heard something incredible from a rapporteur from the Communist Party of Greece. We need to make it clear, gentlemen, if you have not read it that any set-up in areas of national parks, 'NATURA', streams, beach resurrected by fire is forbidden. All this is forbidden and will be forbidden by the new legislation. It is false what your rapporteur said earlier. In addition, with a regulation that this House has voted on and in Matti there is no longer a long road and a closed front on the beach. We have legislated that there should be no building act on the streets and on the beach in Matti. This is the consequence of this government. There won't be any windows on the arbitrary structure. But at the same time as water resources, flood planning, solid waste planning, there are also funds of 2.5 billion entering the waste market, creating another productive and consumer model, because the country now has a strategy for the cyclical economy, it has a strategy to tackle climate change. I close by saying that all this demonstrates the great turn that we all have to do - and we have to say that - in the face of the danger of climate change. It is continuing today and the UN conference on climate change will be finalised in Katowice tomorrow. The country's budget, the debate on the productive model, has been integrated and adaptation to climate change, so that our society can face the effects, but also another model that through the national energy and climate plan and other strategies of our Ministry, gives access to the good of energy to the Greek citizen, to all, a reduction in energy poverty, a shift in areas dependent on lignite in a future that has work without climate emissions and a change in the productive model of our country, so that renewable energy sources and the improvement of electricity mobility and the reduction of energy consumption give another productive and consumer model, a change of lifestyle that at the same time affects biodiversity, agriculture, tourism and our country can overcome the targets for 2030. This is a country that is a pioneer. It comes out of the programme, it covers the objectives more ahead of other European countries, it makes alliances in the Eastern Mediterranean, leading to environmental diplomacy, because the choice and basis of progressive change in the country is one: long-term sustainable development with a statement for everyone. This budget shows that the country is not coming back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Kontonis, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, some things go beyond line. And we heard from the last speaker of PASOK insults on SYRIZA's executives, MPs, ministers and convoys. And I found out from the list of speakers that this speaker is from Serres. You know, from Serres came and Mr Anthopoulos, the former PASOK MEP and Minister, who was sentenced a few days ago, at first instance - I stress it, because there is a second degree - was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Why? Because he was getting a half of a loan from a loan from a loan from a loan from a loan. And they come here, and instead of having a symptom against the story they wrote in black, they attack the SYRIZA executives and ministers. Because, Mr. Anthopoulos, obviously, in order to get a handful of loan from a loan to a loan that had passed every limit, to the point where I imagine that Chohazopoulou, who was taking misery from the armaments, or Tsukatos who took the suitcases to the party offices, would appear before him to be students. So a little lower the tons and what is being said about the government's policy and its executives. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday - because I am almost all the hours here - the budget debate and I see that there are very few words on the budget, not least. Perhaps it should be the first budget after ten years that speakers do not mainly refer to the budget. In fact, I can see that if any reference is made to the budget, it is done by quoting numbers, not to enlighten the situation, but to obscure it. I would say that this is an unresolved effort. And it is incomplete from the standpoint of counter-population, because whatever figures we have to say, when pensions have been reduced by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK by 46% and by 6% of the SYRIZA governments - and there to strengthen the insurance funds - there can be no comparison, ladies and gentlemen. But in any case, I say let's get out of this whole story of numbers, Minister. Let's get her out. And let's get to the point. What's the point? Why did we get this far? Why has the country been tested all these years? And what does the Greek people hire from this situation? I think that the conclusion that comes out and what society understands is very simple. Firstly, the situation in which SYRIZA came to pass is not to blame. It wasn't thirty years that SYRIZA ruled Greece and it wasn't SYRIZA who threw it on the rocks. Others ruled. They ruled by themselves, they ruled by co-operation. We remember the unspeakable memory of PASOK, New Democracy and LAOS - and I shall refer to this below. So all these people have shaped this grim situation, and the Greek people know that. And we even came in 2015 to manage this whole crisis and to raise the country and economy. The second is - which the Greek people know too - that through the crisis and destruction, we, when we received the governance of the country, have taken steps. We took measures for the patients, for the weaker economic classes, for those who were on their knees from the Memorandum and couldn't go to the hospital or even take drugs. Let's leave the metaphor equivalent. Luxury big! And that's what we got. I shall refer to two things that were very important. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, are we not the ones who gave the dividend three years ago? Is there anyone in this House from New Democracy to tell us if they had then voted? Because if I remember correctly, they had voted against it. In fact, they had voted against it because Mr Siomple had said that it was a unilateral action by the Greek Government. That sucks! And they're coming to tell us today that we're sharing antidotes. The second thing we did was to protect from the first hour of the first residence, which the previous governments have left for a long time unprotected. You remember last year - these days were - when I had brought the provision for the protection of notaries, which some of them said from New Democracy, but also from the JRC, unfortunately, that this is a government's plan to get into the process of the auctioning of the first residence of the entire property of the Greek citizens who are required. I said then that if you have an example of first home auctioning, you should bring it to the House. It has been one year and there has not been one case, ladies and gentlemen. We are proud of the SYRIZA Members who voted for the protection law, because it proved after a year that there was not one first residence, which fell into the hands of and in the auction process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time, Mr President, and I'll be done. As a result of this whole situation today, it is to talk about other things. I heard one of the spokesmen of the New Democracy who remembered Matti. In a debate on the budget, ladies and gentlemen, Matty and other things were remembered. We have heard about the Macedonian and should the New Democracy finally say directly and unequivocally: is it in favour of the complex name or is it not? If he's got individual disputes about the deal, he'll say it. They're respected to listen to them. For the complex name, for this thing that the nationalist circles, the extreme right and fascists are on the road and have been breathed out of the tolerance shown by the Civic Opposition, will they tell us their position? Because that's the crucial thing. Or will they continue the hugs and sweet eyes with the extreme right and fascists? The second is the weird thing we heard about a transaction. Aren't you telling me, ladies and gentlemen, will the National Representation and indeed at the level of party leaders, scientific fiction and conspiracy scenarios? If such a door opens, you should know that this does not harm the SYRIZA or the New Democracy. It harms the political system and democracy. If a SYRIZA MEP comes or any Member who says it was a transaction - for example - that the internal party elections have been cancelled, that Mr Mitsotakis will come out, why would he imagine anything he would say about a trade with economic circles, then what will you tell him? He's a slander and a liar and you'll be right. Now, why are you using the same means to trade? Don't you understand what a bad stairwell you're following? And in something that's fantastic, what should anyone answer? With real evidence, with arguments? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The third is that we've become PASOK. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is a party of the radical Left, which draws its poetry from the great struggles of the working class of the country and from the political presence first and foremost of the Inner and Greek Communist Youth "Greek Ferraios", which was born in the flames of May 1968 and in the spring of Prague of '68. There is no need to do something or to do something in that direction. If, however, you want to say that this party has become the expression of those desires and expectations of the Greek people who were born after the post-Civilisation movement, for a movement that would broaden the political and social freedoms of the Greek people, yes, SYRIZA today is leading this movement, for just you and some like you have betrayed that confidence of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u315	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that it is no coincidence today that everyone admits that SYRIZA has endured. And not only did it last, but it also pops up in public. I don't want to say anything else. Expect the biggest poll and the most valid poll, the election poll and you will see that not only is stabilised, not only does it recover, but it currently sets the prerequisites for a victory for the country's homeland, the Greek people and the working class. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Jelloney, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Contonis referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u321	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u322	I would like to mention what the staff consist of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u323	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, the staff are the fact that Mr Kontonis said from the Step of the House to be careful how I speak, because I come from Serres Prefecture and he tried to identify me with Mr Anthopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u325	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u326	I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u327	I would ask you to focus on the staff, but not to have an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u328	No, it won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u329	Do not cause a debate, because we must move on. As you know, the media are unfortunately not interested in the budget. They are interested in showing the cliffs between MPs. So I will give you the floor, but there will be no interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. I would not have taken the floor, Mr President, if Mr Contonis had not been a Minister of Justice. As Minister of Justice he had to protect the principles of the rule of law and should not try to identify us with personal behaviors and practices of some who have been released from our political space since 2003 for their personal actions. It must not now try for these individual functions of these people to give collective political responsibilities. That is why I give him the judgement of the Greek people, because he also embraces the doctrine of Polakis. To finish, I said that from the outset in my speech that SYRIZA is no longer from virginity. Then how about we on a number of occasions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u331	Please, Mr. Jelloney, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u332	I shall conclude, Mr President. What to say about Mr Koutsitis and the DESFA, 'Eleftherios' airport. Venizelos, for Soros, for Kalogrisa, for the management of funds, for immigration?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u333	You're very welcome. There's not going to be a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u334	It is now over the moral advantage the so-called Left wanted to publish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u335	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u336	Please, Mr. Contonis. You're done, Mr. Jelloney. There will be no discussion of this kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I would like to speak. I will not go into the matter with the colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Contonis, are you asking for the floor again? There's not going to be a conversation. If you have anything personal to say that has offended you, yes, but not to start a vague conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u339	No, Mr. President. I'll clarify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u340	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I did not mention in my speech nor did I refer to the conduct of political spaces. Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u342	You referred to Serres Law...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u343	Can you tell him to stop, Mr. President? I heard him. But be careful. What do we say? Even all the PASOK Ministerial Council going to jail, it's not the party's fault. In this sense, we are not criminalising political bodies. I just reminded you that at this hour - a unique phenomenon in Europe - they have been found either convicted or convicted seven - thank God - PASOK ministers. Is that what anyone cares about in this society? That's what I said. I did not say that my colleague himself is accountable for coming from the Serres. I said that from Serres he should know Mr. Anthopoulos. He may not know him, and he may not have anything to do with it. Therefore, politically I placed myself on the problem of corruption, which was gigantic in the country either with Tsukatos or Mandelis, or Tsochazopoulos or with Anthopoulos for thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u344	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u345	They had nothing to do with what I said about political space. The political area is another thing, although the fact that Mr. Tsukatos has been told in court and has been admitted by the Treasury of PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u346	Please, Mr. Contonis. Don't mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u347	I'm done. ...that the hate money was going to the party offices, it would have to be a bit of a concern to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u348	You're welcome. I have the impression...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u349	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u350	I won't give you the floor, Mr. Jeleigh.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u351	Mr. President, for fuck's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u352	The others are protesting. I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, I would like the floor for a second because he has served as Minister of Justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u354	Then I'll talk too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u355	No, I won't give you the floor. The others are protesting. I'll talk to you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Contony and Mr. Jelloney, not to generalize the debate. By misusing the role of the Bureau, I would like to say that because you mention historical names, it would be good to mention large names such as Peponis, such as Charalambopoulou, as Papaulias is, because there are other impressions and because there are some exceptions, for which the party itself feels the need to delete them, it is forced to apologise today for them. He has no reason to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, we have full respect. These do not characterise political spaces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u357	That is precisely because the issues are being raised here, which are completely out of the question of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, I said that these do not characterise political spaces. These political areas must, however, be taken into account as to how seven ministers are currently in this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u359	They've already been troubled. Let us not forget that the clearance that is being done today is due to the legislative framework adopted by this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u360	In this I have a contrast. I won't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u361	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u362	Fine. Let's move on. The next speaker is Mr Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know what the worst situation is, that seven PASOK ministers are in prison, or that more than seven PASOK ministers are in SYRIZA now, but you all together very well describe the situation that the entire Memorandum arc has created and is currently living at the expense of the Greek people. You don't see your own jewel and ideological dead end and you conclude that it's your extreme right, it's your patriots' fault, it's your nationalists' fault, it's your Golden Dawn. Everyone in their way takes off their complex. All right, New Democracy, by the way of the 1913s, with the imprisonment of the Chief and Members of the Golden Dawn, showed it very well along with the PASOK. SYRIZA, whoever sees holding Greek flag, is fascistizing him. The JRC, in order not to blame it, has this pain too. Don't forget. Fate brought it and you celebrated your hundreds of years with students mobilized for Macedonia's Greekity. You lived that, too. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I am going to talk about the budget now, which is supposed to be the first memorial. Last year you said that last year's budget was the last memorial. I told you that in order for it to be next year a budget which will not be in the memorandums should not provide for a euro collection from Memorandum measures. But what happened? The thirteenth wage didn't come back. It's cut off from the memoirs. Elevations in wages didn't see anyone. Did you abolish him? You tell the world "vote again SYRIZA and we'll see what happens later". What about unemployment? Indicators are reduced. How? With rotating work with three hundred euros per month and, of course, with young people leaving abroad, unemployment is actually increasing. What about the homeless? There's all over the country. What about those who don't have to eat at home? And we have one of them. Now of course, first home seizures will begin and the problem will be intensified. What about inferitality? The biggest problem facing our homeland is birth. It is almost forty thousand Greeks every year, says the Statistical Office and there is nothing in the budget. Will there be any subsidy for the births of new Greeks? Of course not. Homes to new couples so they can have kids? Of course not. The children will be considered a presumption in this budget as well. You cut off the tritec transfers to the public. So what memorial torn up? What memorandum did you come out of and have a budget outside of a memorial? It is a budget for overtaxation, as the financial information says. It says that 19% of natural persons pay 90% of taxes, 4.3% of enterprises pay 83% of public revenue. A small minority of Greek citizens and businesses, namely, bears the burden of society. Anyone who wants to be right, because there are also right people who want to pay their contributions and their obligations, are targeted as tax-raisers. So the memorial condemnation of the nation to death continues. The Memorandum is the budget, in the sense that there is a management of the holistic measures. But he's not a memorial. Nothing has been shaded, no memorial. Not only did you not slit a memorial, nor a cover for a photocopy, since your revolutionary inconsistency and zero importance of your revolutionaryity are now given. While the state should shape the market based on the needs and self-sufficiency of the nation, as neoliberal followers of the memorials, what did you achieve? The needs of the market to define the lives of citizens, the kind and limits of power, that is, the state. If this is your democracy, what can I say? So you continued with the memorial and scandals. However, other speakers were also mentioned by the other parties. Of course, they don't look too hard for them, because theirs might be bigger and deeper. We had again been selling state property, the issue of arms, and many times we have said it. But where you're playing equals PASOK is really at the forefront. You're attracting all your people everywhere. Your best thing, however, is to the partners: Karanika, Pittsites and so on. If the partners from 5,000 a year go to 200,000, imagine what happens to senior executives. In the Security Body, however, you are divided. Other uniforms take, others don't take. You broke up with the police at two speeds. Target the special guards. You've cut the transfer except for the tritecs and they'll take almost nothing retrospectively. Maybe they'll pay over. Why don't you like it? Based on the electoral tank, you choose who you give and who you don't give? You say, for example: "They don't vote SYRIZA, so let them go, it's okay. Let them starve. The others who were New Democracy and PASOK are easier to get them." So you do not like the PIA and DELTA services, but they were close to the citizen, and citizens felt security with these services. But you didn't like them because they were manned with molecules by men of Special Forces. Of course, most of the men of Special Guards have been in dead services, I think, in recent years. But you like MATs. You fell in love with them, you suddenly loved them, what you wanted to do away with them. Yeah, 'cause they're protecting you now. Wherever you go they're with you, beating people and protecting you. You forgot what you were saying. Of course, as far as pensions are concerned, and as the New Democracy says, it has been traded with the Embassy Agreement, it seems that the New Democracy judges with its own data, which it also needs to deal with national issues. SYRIZA for the Prespecies Agreement doesn't need any transaction. It is an ideological consequence that they manage to sell out our Macedonian name. What are you doing? And I will answer the previous speaker who was asking what the New Democracy says about a complex name. Let me tell you what he's saying. In any video of the MPs and see, especially of the province, which have a Golden Dawn MP there, they play it more golden than Golden Dawn. And what do they say? It's a good thing, the composite name. We do not agree with this 'North Macedonia' because it is an expression. If, however, a word of composer "North-Macedonia" and nationality and language are North-Macedonian, then they have no problem. It's the Bakoyannis line. It's okay over there. But they're trying to throw ashes in the eyes. Of course, what are you going to do, New Democracy, if SYRIZA doesn't? It's a fixed command from the United States of America to be done. You'll do it. This is what you are shaking, that there should not be elections before the Prespecies' Agreement passes by the Greek Parliament, at the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. SYRIZA, of course, has another bad guy now. They filled all posters and airplanes with the Prime Minister's face. I don't know if there's a law that allows posters on PPC columns, etc. They're doing this anyway on Paul Mela every year. That's another matter. But the fact that you filled with Thessaloniki posters shows that you are nervous if the Prime Minister has any people. You consider the presence symbolic. Don't be nervous at all. From the mobilizations that I see happening in Thessaloniki, the Prime Minister's speech will have a lot of people, but it will have outside, as you trained people to go out of political speeches. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u364	No, it doesn't have a minute. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u365	Good. You did not see what Zafe says, of course, about the "Macedonian" taught in Greece. He says: "They are already teaching Greeks, that Macedonians should not be taught?" What "Macedonian"? That motif? Greeks are not now taught in Greece. The Greek and two thousand years back to go and talk, the inhabitants of the region would understand. They are not only taught Greek in Macedonia. In Macedonia, then, they live Greeks and you should know very well that the Slavic education, what they say Macedonian, does not even understand their grandparents. They talk about it in Skopje and children can't agree with grandparents. Only the Bulgarians can. That is why I am telling you again that such an agreement cannot be implemented. So here they are not taught only Greek. The Greeks live. What does Greek mean? They have been the ones who have been ruining the plans of major empires for thousands of years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u366	For seven minutes, the State Secretary, Mr Liakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u367	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is not just a historic turning point, but a break point between the recent past and the future that is being opened for the country. We are leaving behind a period of comitology, social retreat, institutional depreciation, low expectations and going through a new situation, where we have recovered significant levels of freedom, our economy is growing again, social injustices are corrected, and democratic operation regains its meaning. Some people would like this budget to be the beginning of the end of our governance, but I think it is only the end of a start three years ago, a start, a first attempt, I would say, persistent, painful and systematic to get the country out of the crisis and to create new conditions for the social majority. This would be another rhetoric if it did not come from the items in the budget submitted. I will briefly mention the positive growth rates, the significant decline in unemployment, the increase in exports, the recovery of investments, the reliable fiscal picture and the long-term sustainability of public debt, the increase in social benefits which relieve large parts of the population. At the same time, we have as a reserve an extensive reform project that significantly changed our economy in terms of justice, efficiency, adaptability to international trends and resistance to potential future material blows. Reforms have already been carried out which will form the basis for the intended growth leap of the next decade and we can achieve, as we have the necessary human capital now and the experience of facing any challenges and problems. The new era after the memoranda finds the country with its own development plan and its own reform priorities. Thanks to these successes and measurable results, we are now able - and that is what we are doing - to correct past injustices and extend aid to the social groups that need it. At the same time, we restore workers' negotiating power, guarantee labour rights, increase the share of paid work with the productivity that is rightfully owned by it. At the same time, we are promoting active employment policies, strengthening research and education, and providing incentives that favour labour integration. All of this in response to a global trend that wants the worker flexible, consumable and stripped of any institutional protection. So social protection is needed for the weak, equal opportunities and rights and the world of work and the opening up of access and capacity to all productive forces. However, this will or will be a lasting conquest, without losing our pace and resting again, or otherwise we will be plundering again in the past. The continuation in the path of transformations, changes, reforms, I personally regard it as a one-way path. The maintenance and strengthening of new changes today, instead of squeezing or squeezing, which some believe would be the only proof of the recovery of our sovereignty, will be a new field of political controversy, but also of converging, and also a field of reconversion of different cultures for the direction of our society. I would like to add that we have also recovered our international credibility by resolving bilateral differences, stagnating for years, and we have gone ahead with strategic long-term partnerships that make our country a computing factor and a reliable interlocutor in the globalised context. We are preparing the country for a period of intense challenges at European and international level and we are preparing for the formation of progressive alliances to prevent an extreme and raw anti-social agenda that is constantly gaining ground. At this point, I would like to stand a little further, as the world-wide developments have to awaken the progressive space, in order now to give solutions and answers to the challenges of the future, instead of trying to create a new account to date incompletely. The rise of the extreme right and nationalist circles, the finding of common European solutions, the deepening of the European idea, the resolution of the causes, the consequences, the impact of immigration, inequalities, unemployment, the level of wages, development, climate change and other issues want proposals and solutions for anti-Rhetoric regimes. These solutions can be found through dialogue and cooperation between progressive forces at a pan-European and global level. Ladies and gentlemen, the exit from a crisis has become a long-standing and ultimately dangerous one three years ago an urgent and, above all, national need. Our government has proposed its own plan and has brought it to an end, with a real patriotic commitment, despite the negative correlations of forces that prevailed at the given juncture. We had to go into history for the benefit of many, overthrowing the consolidation of the crisis in a social status. Even the part of the citizens who did not support us, conscious of the criticality of moments, I believe that it wanted this effort to achieve the country's own future. Now, the project of fair growth is going through its second phase for Greece of the next decade that comes back dynamically to the fore and this time with society as a key shaper of developments. In conclusion, I would like to make a little reference to those people, to whom we owe the texts, the tables and all the material at our disposal, in order to carry out, as every year, the budget debate. I refer to the people and officials of the State General Accounting Office. Some time ago, people, the members of the General Accountancy, but also many of us, were disturbed by the news of the sudden loss of a major man who was - personally, I believe - the model of the idea that we have in mind for the public servant. I'm talking about Christos Giannakopoulos. I had the luck, the joy, the honor of meeting him and working with him. He was a man of intelligence, with humor, hearing, with a sense of duty, always ready to offer, help, find solutions, without being influenced by party identities. To him, but also to all members of the General Accounting Office, I would like very respectfully to dedicate these thoughts that I have put before you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u368	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, forty students and students and two teachers from the 1st Drama High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Liakos had a thrill at closing his speech. So that's where the people of the economic cycle are moving. So I can go ahead without being nervous that I am not understood in certain remarks. In the summer of 2015, Euclid, the wine tax was imposed. We were sad at that time. Today, it's good to see you. It's like a circle that doesn't only have moderate, numerical, accounting, but a political cycle. It was a political choice. And it's a political choice. It is the recovery, for example, of an area of political self-action, of the possibility of making political decisions. We have recovered, in other words, a piece of lost political identity. That's the limit element. I would like us to insist on this element of the budget, beyond the measures, beyond the documentation, which, anyway, has been developed. This dimension of the budget also creates an interpretation of the exit from the crisis. Outside the crisis is the recovery of the political area. Outside the crisis is the reconstructing of the visionary element for the economy, i.e. for production, it is the recovery of production quality, not only of its valuation, not only of the translation of numerical but of productive quality, what created the crisis in the decades and 2000 and the previous ones, the loss of productive consciousness and vision. It is certain that today we are also living in the cultural ends of the crisis. In other words, there is widespread violence, a diffuse uncertainty. This is also reflected in the European area. Europe is in a deep question, in a deep and substantial reflection: where will it go? We have phenomena of widespread populism, which also incorporates left-wing languages, we are making demands for political emancipation, work emancipation, with the greatest ease. Besides, he doesn't mean anything. In this landscape, we have a different audience. So we need to make a different address language. Microscopic has different today recruits. Therefore, the question of this long course of correction that starts and is being consolidated and implemented with this budget is not a subsidy, as long as the recovery of the economic architecture, the architecture with which the country is formed, its public space, its administration and therefore productive actions are regulated. These are very big requests, they are very large bets and they are usually lost. Many times the country was in such a race, at a turn like this, and lost the bet and growth and productive regeneration and therefore social cohesion. Re-proposal: Unfortunately, one of the signs of the crisis is that there is no counter-proposal. Unfortunately, in a zero, very easy, almost a word from the Opposition is not proposed, the other one is not made up. There's no counterproposal. I would also say that there is no critical approach to what the government suggests. The critical intake of the system does not define antisystemics today. Anti-reformism today is defined as the degradation of the system, as the degradation of the tools, the worthwhile assumptions with which the country and Europe developed post-war, the unifications with which the country and Europe were able to form the great social compositions and agglomerations. These are the features of a wide-ranging question that - I think - we can, on the pretext of the budget, put forward without uncertainties. We have this political comfort, to be able to ask ourselves without the 2015 panic, without the collapse of the 2015-2016 system. I think this is an achievement that we should not eliminate, regardless of whether we are standing negatively against it. Last: Europe's inability to give convincing answers seems - I think - to manage a major problem that is the refugee problem. It is precisely because the map of small, medium-sized citizens, the citizen who created hegemonies in the countries changes, that the political scene is forced to adapt panics. Thus, he does not make decisions or makes decisions that he does not implement, takes decisions that he regrets, he is resenting, he makes note. This impracticability, the inability to take a decision, i.e. forming a political stage, I think it is Europe's greatest problem, which I fear will be seen in the next period in the composition of the European Parliament. In our country we have all the tools to do a radical consolidation, a radical revision, and I think we have all the prerequisites as a political system, wise, discreet and visionary, to win the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u370	Thank you. Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reply to my dear colleague who came down from the Stepma that the levy on wine, which was rightly imposed in 2015, is abolished following a conviction by the Council of State. You had to abolish him, because the Council of State described the law as unconstitutional. Now because I have been here for a long time and I have heard my dear colleagues from my region - and they are doing my honor and they are here themselves - I want to respond to some of the issues they have raised. First of all, Mr Mardas - and I call it a brand name - has asked us three questions. Firstly, if we really believe that the third memorandum was not mandatory, that we could overcome it. I say unequivocally yes, I say that it is the result of your own disastrous policy. And that is not just what we are saying, and the Prime Minister also admitted it when he spoke of fraud. The second thing you asked us was whether we thought the country could get out of the memorandum without surveillance. What you're referring to is undoing what you're saying, that you've achieved a clean exit from the memorandum. Well, I mean, I mean, self-regulate. Now, as regards the periods of prosperity and what has happened and what we have done, I would like to remind you that in the period of prosperity you were Secretary General of the Ministry of Trade and President of the UPE to the PASOK governments. I also hear too many colleagues here making comparisons with our criticisms, comparisons with indicators of older governments. But you carried the sky with the stars on the people, you gave it all to him. That is why we are criticising you, and that is why you are critical and normally your criticism must be made on the basis of what you have said and what you have done. Now, as far as the celebrations of my dear Minister and my fellow minister are concerned, I must say that the way he has presented the country today reminded me that he probably lives in another country, because I do not think that things in our region, in Soho or in Arethesa you are visiting, are so, as you have presented them to us. Of course, the most dangerous thing I hear is that there is a perception that does not accept the other view, the other reason. You do not accept the criticism. You do not accept the right of opposition to criticize you. And you must accept that we have different ideological origins. So accept the criticism, as we accepted it. In other words, the public debate has reached the point of saying that what does not agree with you is extreme, extreme right, nationalist and so on. It's not like that. It can't go on. That is not the case with public debate. Now, as far as the scandals and the others mentioned in this Chamber are concerned, let us also remind the Kalogrits and their latest "Kitsakus", "Petsitis" etc. I think that the debate on the budget is a top debate that needs to be held in a way of political culture and, of course, all opinions are heard. From there on, the government has the right, it has the majority, to apply what it wants. But it cannot deprive opposition of its right to criticise. Of course, in the budget that we are discussing today - the fourth and last I appreciate the fact that the current government is tabling, although looking back to all three previous budgets and the 2019 debate - I am looking to find a national strategy, which many of you are referring to, the one that will give impetus to the economy, the one that will create new jobs, the one that will strengthen social cohesion, the one that will give signals of optimism and hope for the future. In vain, though. Believe, I imagine, the Greek people that this so-called memorial first budget would be a budget for the development, expectations and exit of the crisis. But, as things show, it has been disguised, because after three years of hard bloodshed in society, following experimentation and dangerous toys on the citizens' backs, after an unjustified memorandum which, according to everything, is so and charged to the Greek taxpayers, after twenty-nine new taxes that you imposed and placed Greece first on taxation between the OECD countries and after the pension cuts, the government is presenting us with a budget as we were expecting it. "With eyes on the polls," this should be the title of the 2019 budget, because it is a budget that again tries to deceive the people. On the one hand, she caress about pensioners' ears and celebrates, because she did not apply the pension cut she voted for, while we voted against it, promises appointments and tax reliefs, promises reductions in insurance contributions she raised in 2016, but only for freelance professionals, promises a gradual reduction in corporate taxation, after increasing it vertically since 2015. It celebrates the fact that business taxes in 2021 will be formed at 2014 levels. In other words, it promotes a number of small reductions following the heavy burdens imposed by it over the last three years on the people's backs. We have therefore referred to the answers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We believe that with the minimum reductions in business taxation, which this year's budget brings, climate is not changing and that is not enough. There is a need for courageous measures and steps to implement structural changes and strengthen liquidity in the real economy. It requires a reduction in insurance contributions to all workers, a reduction in the rate of taxation applicable to natural persons. He needs a state of arrogant entrepreneurship. We urgently need a political change. We believe that the government with its policy is going to create huge problems in the agricultural world. The rural world is driven into economic suffocation. The farmers who have suffered damage from the weather are left out of compensation. Apart from compensatory aid of about fifty-seven Community departments in the countryside of Thessaloniki, the countryside is driven to desertification. You abandoned the Greeks abroad in their luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u372	Please, Mr Anastasiades, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u373	I shall conclude, Mr President. You leave the family unprotected. The problems of learning the Greek language in Greek women abroad are growing. You deny the right to vote on Greeks abroad. The Greek people, however, understand and will quickly send you where it takes, quickly you will be a memory. And as he has always done, he will enable our resignation to pull the country out of the deadlock. Fortunately, today is your last budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, listen. We're at seventy-five and you've registered two hundred. If every one who has the chance to be ahead goes up to the Step and no time is observed, I tell you by mathematical calculation that at least fifty - sixty colleagues will not speak. Please, therefore, show respect for ourselves, the MPs. The same applies, of course, to the members of the government who will follow the timetable. Mr Santorinios, Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year was a milestone for the post-political history of the country. A vicious cycle of poverty and impoverishment of society, a vicious cycle of political austerity, which undermined the living level of the majority of the Greek people and shrinked the welfare state and the rule of law, ends definitively. The country has come out of the memorials, whether you like it or not. And the numbers speak for themselves. We close with 2.1% growth, 18.9% unemployment - to remind you that we received it at 27% - and exports for the third quarter, compared to the corresponding quarter of 2017, increased by 7.6%. Our effort to restore the economy and protect all those who the hard neoliberal policies that you have put on their knees, but also the practical zero tolerance that we have shown to those who have broken public money and corrupted the country's political life, has been systematically and successfully done. Within this framework, island policies have gained meaning and content. We have responded to the needs of the islands with specific projects and with the establishment of permanent policies aimed at the development and prosperity of our islands. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, small and simple are the things that change the lives of islanders. The islanders do not need large words or pompous announcements. They've been fed up all these years. They need support, daily care and vision. And speaking of support, how many times have we not read vulgar titles that say, for example, that Kastelorizo is five days out of water? How many times did Isle Members not listen to their phone, agony, a mayor tell them that the water is over? This is all over this year. The bet we put on the aqueous autonomy of the islands was finally won. In Patmos, Kastelorizo, Leros, Thirasia, Koufonissi, Donusa, Heraklion, we have finally solved the problem of anhydria, while in Amorgos, Leipzig, Agathonisi, Nisser, and in Kimolo, where they had bought - listen - from 2013 desalinations and had been rotting, the desalinations were completed in the first few months of 2019. What does that mean? In 2016, thirty thousand cubic metres of water were carried, costing the state budget 4.2 million euros. In 2018, two hundred and twenty thousand cubic meters of water were carried, at a cost of 2.9 million euros. Do you know how much we're going to transfer in 2019? We will transfer a maximum of twenty-five thousand cubic metres, which will cost 250,000 euros and be made by the Navy. Finally, the aquariums in the Aegean Sea, ladies and gentlemen. We provide sufficient and quality water to the islanders and save 4 million euros a year, of which 400,000 will be given for the repayment of contracts for the desalination plant and the rest will be used to make new desalinations where necessary, in Sicily, in Astypalea, in Karpathos, in Mathoraki, there, that is, until now, the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy has not had competence and now also has competence in the Ionian islands. Because the Ionians didn't think they were islands. Isn't that right, Mrs. Vaki? With this policy we save for the Greek public 84% of the annual costs from going - come on to the aqueduct, which you had for so many years and coming. All these years the aqueduct was coming and we were paying. All of this is reinvested to make projects to upgrade the water supply and sewerage networks of our islands. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the everyday life of an island, obviously we are also talking about the port. The port is what brings life to our islands. The budget for small-scale projects, but of great importance, for the maintenance of port facilities on our islands, will this year be EUR 7.1 million. Projects such as the repair and maintenance of the central pier at the port of Ios, the installation of impactors at the port of Paleochora in Sfakia, which serves Gaydos, the repair of platforms in Myrina of Limnos or the repair of electrical installations in the main port of Samothraki, are expected to give a fresh impetus to the development of our islands. At the same time, we all know that our country is the most multinational country in Europe, with great maritime needs, which obviously cannot be covered by the free route of ships as a whole. The barren lines are a self-evident obligation of the Greek state to ensure the minimum transport coverage, especially of the small islands. We are therefore steadily increasing the budget for subsidising the barren lines, with the aim of increasing the coverage of the island's transport needs and thus covering the needs of both the tourist current and, above all, the permanent inhabitants. In 2018 the budget was 86 million, in 2019 it will be increased to 88.5 million. New lines are added, such as the increase in the frequency of service of Megistis in the summer, the Samothrace - Limnos - Kavala - Mrs Gara, I see you in front of me - the subsidy of the Patras - Sami - Ithaca line. No one can question anymore that in the last three years the ferry connection of our islands has improved considerably. The changes in the institutional framework that we are planning for 2019 and the grant of multiannual contracts for the service of barren lines will give new impetus to ferry companies in order to buy new advanced ships that will serve our islands better. And I'm getting into the metaphor. 2019 will be the time of positive cuts for island Greece. After the successful implementation of the transport institution equivalent to forty-nine islands, from 1-1-2019 the island country as a whole will enjoy the beneficial provisions of this essential and permanent island policy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u376	You have a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u377	Therefore, more than seven hundred thousand inhabitants on over 100 islands and more than thirty thousand island companies will see the transport costs of their journeys, but also of their goods, falling. From pilot implementation we have 43% reduction in the cost of shipping. More than fifty thousand islanders were transferred with a cost-benefit subsidy. This provides new opportunities for development and incentives for residents to stay on our islands. Because islanders are not second-class citizens. Because our islands contribute to the production of new wealth and the growth of GDP. In 2019, 156 million will be allocated for the implementation of the transport equivalent. The pilot implementation of the fuel grant in the context of the transport equivalent to the smaller and remote Aegean islands also begins in January 2019. According to our calculations, the price of fuel in the pump will not exceed 10 to 15 cents of the euro in relation to the average in Attica. The transport equivalent is a measure for islanders formed with them. Every day we talk with the institutions of the islands, with the chambers, trying to improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the proof that with another perception of the management of economics, with policies that have social significance, with justice and transparency, our country can move forward as a normal, progressive, European country where citizens can trust the state and be able to enjoy benefits and rights. Greece is moving forward on the path of democracy, justice and equality. The Greek you handed us is in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u378	Well, listen, and most importantly, the government hears it, the fourth cycle closes with Mr. Theocratic and Mr. Delis. I'm not going to interrupt. The entire fifth cycle will be exhausted to Mr Moraitis and then the Minister will speak again. Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget. First, and most importantly, the pensions planned to be cut in early 2019 are not cut. It is not a question of making it clear, nor of postponing or suspending it, but of abolishing the burden of this measure imposed by the IMF. We did not vote willingly. The IMF imposed it. Thanks to the coordinated efforts of our Government and the Greek people, we have succeeded in abolishing this measure, as will the abolition of the reduction in duty next year. I stress that we will not have reductions, as other colleagues have pointed out, but we will also have small increases in six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners, because the whole world has been constantly asking for twelve months. Our relatives, friends in the villages that we go to, in our areas, to the cities ask 'will pensions be cut?' And everyone said, "If pensions aren't cut, you know, we're with you. If you manage and don't cut them, we're with you and Alexis Tsipras." This is the best and largest poll. Because I don't believe the others. They have proved themselves unreliable in recent years. The whole world has said and said in recent months "we are with you if pensions are not cut." So pensions are not cut. We have abolished the burdensome measures imposed by the IMF, but for the bad fortune of the Anti-Population, the New Democracy, the PASOK movement, the Change Movement, we hold and apply the positive countermeasures, which, when we voted on the third review, were mocked and mocked by the anti-Population colleagues and said "you will apply the negatives, you will cut the pensions, and from the positive nothing, it is a smokescreen, you are mocking the Greek people". It's the opposite. We are removing the negatives and applying the positives. I would like to mention them very quickly, as other Members have done: the reduction of HISPIA. Rental or housing loan grant for three hundred thousand new couples. Don't you need these? Reduction of insurance contributions by freelance professionals. Abolition of trade fee to cooperative farmers in the COMPs. Gradually reducing the income tax on legal persons. Insurance contribution for young people under the age of twenty-five years. Recruitment of three thousand two hundred and two hundred workers in "Help at Home", who have been hostaged for over fifteen years. Recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers and qualified staff in special education. Collective labour contracts. Increasing minimum wage. And I think we should celebrate all this with a glass of wine, since the special levy on wine is abolished. That's our policy. We are now showing it firmly. It is in favour of the Greek people. Look how much we have achieved in just three months of getting out of the memorials and let us all imagine how much we will achieve in the nine months left to the elections, but also how much we will achieve after the elections. However, I would remind you in the memoranda of how many difficulties and negotiations we have achieved positive measures over the past few years. Health coverage of two and a half million uninsured people who had them like a dog in the vineyard. People who paid thirty years of contributions because they did not pay for three - four months, were left to die helpless or have a heart attack and an unconscious tax account came to them. Social Income of Solidarity. Human Crisis Card. Abolition of persecution to the free traders. Social dividend at the end of each year. I'm saying the most important thing. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you didn't get any negative predictions, no catastrophes. That's the burden you bear. Four years now you're ruined. Neither the cutter has been activated in wages and pensions nor that the evaluations will not be closed. They closed everything well and in the interests of the Greek people. We don't even get out of the memos and have four memos. We got out, and that's why we can keep the pensions. That pensions will not be cut and that we have cut them. All the pensioners' federations say that 40% of you and 4% of us and that necessarily. Nor is it supposed now - funny things - that we charged the country with 100 billion, when the debt was reduced in 2015 as well. The Prime Minister said so too. Not only do we achieve the support and relief of the weakest social groups, but at the same time we build Greece of the future. The budget is also developmental. Development is coming. The macroeconomic figures for a long time, over eighteen months, are good. Unemployment, growth, more than 2%, increases private consumption, private investment, exports, foreign direct investment, etc. But beyond the numbers, we all know on the market and on the street that things are going well. The building goes up, the shops open, there's traffic, recruitment is done. Hardly yet, but the thing goes up, there's a gradual, but steady growth. Our development, of course, is not based on state-owned, intertwined and corrupt businesses and on inappropriate private relations with the public sector. No, it is the long-term, sustainable development that respects the worker and the environment, that is, it respects the laws of that state. There has been a series of, ladies and gentlemen, the country with the government of ours and with Alexis Tsipras. There's a series because a knife was cut, the scandals and the plundering of public money. I was also a member of the previous'seas' exam and the one who has just finished his work on health. And what we didn't find. It's a reality that goes beyond fantasy. Henry Dunn, arthrosis, medicine, NoVARTIS. In CEDEFOP there, even if the party took place in the vaccines, building, advertising expenditure, the OECD contract, party assignments, and even the lentils, ladies and gentlemen. It's evaporating every imagination. Criminal responsibilities are now being sought with evidence. Our finding is extensive and founded by Greek justice. But political responsibilities are huge and criminal. These led to the bankruptcy of the country. And do not retreat by saying 'A, only political responsibilities'. Is it a little bit of political responsibility when they prove to be, as in so many other areas? That is the political reality today. It is for the Greek people and therefore for our Government and Alexis Tsipras. And what does Mr. Mitsotakis do when he gets around? He throws the ball into so-called patriotism and that he's a so-called Macedonian. To say, however, other Members have said so, clearly, that it is in favour of a complex name. That's why I'm silent. It is a fixed line both from the New Democracy and from the previous Governments and from the New Democracy itself this year. It is in favour of using the term "Macedonia" in the name of the neighbours. Just say it clearly. Those who vote on this criterion know that Mr Mitsotakis is also in favour of this. It accepts the use of the term ‘Macedonia’ by its neighbours. Let no longer make fun of the Greek people. And I close, Mr President, with some local issues relating to western Macedonia and Kozani, which are at a stage of transition to the post-linguistic period. The use of lignite is being greatly reduced, which is why, as our region has stood and gave its spears and coal for electricity and the development of the country, we expect brave decisions to support our region and Kosanis Prefecture in this difficult transition. A very right and brave decision is that of the Minister, who is also here, of the Socrates Famelos, for the establishment of the fair transition fund, precisely to support and reduce unemployment in our region by supporting 60 million for three years. It is also right to decide to reduce PPC's accounts. They were requests from the local society that our government accepted. However, I also emphasise other individual issues, such as the very important thing that we have voted on, the relocation and expropriation of the Akrinian, a village of a thousand inhabitants that may not have coal underneath, but has been buried in the ashes by PPC's activities. We have voted for it and we must do so, as we do others, namely support this transitional period in our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u380	The fourth cycle is closed with Mr.Ioannis Delis, which I call at Step, and from the fifth cycle, to be within Ethiopia, we will begin with Mr. Nicholas Manios, Mr. Athanasios, Ms. Theophevtou and Mr. Barriotas. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u381	Shortly before Mr. Kontonis, referring to the auctioning of houses, stated his pride in SYRIZA's work on a subject that evolves in the rocks of thousands of people's families. But what is SYRIZA's MP proud of? Is the fact that red housing loans are now in the hands of the karadomans who are grabbing homes? Or is it that very quickly with a very short delay in paying a few doses is thrown out of control and his home is automatically out of protection? Who legislated all this? Wasn't SYRIZA? Finally, in a few days' time, at the end of the month no longer ends any today - anyway - protection exists in the first place and you are not preparing to lower the protection limit for first residence below EUR 100,000? What's all this? Protection of the first residence, or even greater tightening of the dolphin for popular homes? But the slogans of government propaganda continue and are well-known: "Since August we have been in the memorial era", "the normality is here" and "the growth has begun and waited for us." That's the propaganda. What's the reality? It's exactly the opposite. We are living the normal continuation of the previous Memorandum. The laws that came with the memorials and all of them are here and are working today and arrived hundreds, thousands of young people killed at work for 400 euros a month, working from morning to night and being unable to make the month. The government's witnessing it and the government budget. Why, for whom, really, does this budget take and to whom does it give? And he takes many of them to give them to the few, the lenders and the big businessmen, flying every year in these days and no strays in the great poverty that spreads with your policy more and more. What's all this called in the budget language? Primary surpluses made by nightmares for every popular need. And such a basic need for the people's families is of course also the question of education, namely the education of the children of our people. Really, what does this memorial era mean for you so much talk about? Does it mean that the people's family will stop putting her hand in a pocket deep to educate her children? To turn them into sport? To help them get to know the good news of culture? Does it mean that schools will be adequately funded by the state and will no longer resort to function, to their own parents and to various donors and scholars, rational benefactors? Does it mean that the major problems of school accommodation will be tackled with one third of the country's school buildings counting over half a century of life in one of the most seismic countries of the earth and their earthquake protection program have stopped since 2010 yet? Does it mean that the parents of the students who are studying away from home will no longer be taken away from home for the feeding and housing of their children? Does it mean that higher education will stop being treated as a merchandise, that the tuition which is constantly growing in postgraduate establishments will be abolished, or that the restructuring that turns the universities into a group of business groups will be stopped? And all of this with Article 16 applies - and that is right, we say - to the Constitution. Except, you see, this declaratory provision of the Constitution, because at the end of the day all such positive constitutional provisions are bypassed in the highest interest of the bourgeoisie, i.e. capitalist profit. Does it mean that people's families won't pay a lot of money to teach their children an art to private traders in education and training before they go to the capitalist market jungle? Or does it mean that the pre-school treatment of infants by stress and exodus of thousands of young couples will become a matter of the state providing it free and equal to all children? Here, even this poor program to set up children's stations along with the expansion of school meals, you sacrificed them as a compensation for the loss of old pensions with this unacceptable logic "please choose who you will lose". Does it mean that this memorial period of time means that all these thousands of teachers, the permanent substitutes will cease to be with one suitcase in the hand and every year change school from one to the other of Greece? The answer to all of this, our people know it, because they live in it every day. As for the answers it gives and this budget is similar. See, for example, the highly advertised four and a half thousand assignments in special education. Today, now that we're talking about special treatment, thirteen thousand seven hundred alternates are working. However, with this number, there are still many gaps in special schools, for example, since several applications for parallel support have been rejected. Furthermore, with the huge shortages of special treatment structures, particularly in secondary education, it is clear that the actual needs of special treatment are not reflected. So these appointments look like drops in the desert of the shortages of special education, while being exploited, mainly as an alibi for an anti-educational policy. This is a reminder of the ten thousand appointments of the New Democracy - PASOK. The twenty thousand appointments of SYRIZA. The fifteen thousand later of SYRIZA to end today to four and a half thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need a very small tolerance. We also remind you that in the last few years there have been thirty-five thousand teachers who have been retired. At the same time, today the alternates are already over twenty-six thousand and not all gaps have been covered. See what happens in Halkidiki or here next to Piraeus. Instead, the government now, directly all these teachers, who are the least in the face of the acute needs, are going to divide them by the appointing system and the criteria it brings, which ultimately act as the criteria for redundancies and autism. At the same time, the government is preparing to give a overwhelming blow to the youth's cultural rights with the so-called 'New High School', according to which this turns into an endless examination, with general education shrinking further and the third high school class becoming a mere education. How can these great caregivers who publicly praised you through the pages of "AGEI" not be grateful for it, and how can the people's families who will see that there are more class barriers to education be raised, since the decisive role here will play the wallet? Is there anything comforting about all this? Yes, there is. They're the student mobilizations for their problems that you're not seeing. Student mobilisation and student care. The mobilisations of teachers who claim the right to stable and permanent work. They'll strengthen. They must meet with the working people's movement. The social alliance is depriving itself. Here's the way for the people to find their point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of sixteen students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 23rd Evosmos School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're starting the fifth cycle with Mr. Nikolao Manios. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u383	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I always try to keep low tons in the debates here in the House, and I avoid speaking very often, because I don't need to. However, it is not possible, when we have the top parliamentary procedure, which is the budget, to use up to the tumultery in order to hurt the Prime Minister of the country, such as what was said about Eyes with the dead and that the Prime Minister was out of Greece and throwing flowers in the river, this ironic phrase. Is that the scientist MEP who told them what was the blocked estate in which twenty-six people were burned from Mattie? Has it ever been considered who gave the licenses and how many treatments did the co-owner of this house have for violations of the Code of Forest Law? But let's leave that. I heard the day before, with great intensity for the insults made by Syrian MPs, when they were in the Opposition towards the then co-population of New Democracy and PASOK and I heard phrases of "Germancholias" etc. First of all, I want to make it clear that this is wrong and it is not only wrong, because the level of political dialogue must not be like this, but it is primarily wrong, because we did not have German armed occupations to give birth to the German german gypsies, as was born in 1941-1942 and then they did not disappear. They were posted in many post-war governments and also acted during the Civil War. Therefore, he needs wisdom. First of all, the occupation was the escalation of the ultimate and harder face of capitalism, which is neoliberalism and this leafing was not done on its own, but was done with the help of both the New Democracy and the PASOK. In this Chamber in one of my first speeches - I don't remember, maybe it was the second one - I said how we entered the memorandum and what had happened in February 2009 at the Conference of the European Union, how Almunia and Baroz put the two political leaders, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police, to bring the memorandums. He went unnoticed. No one's responding. So, let us see: Is it irreversible or is it controversy to say many - chosen, otherwise - that in 2015, when SYRIZA came out, Greece was destroyed? It's a maximum of nerve. Because Greece has been destroyed since 2009 and was consciously destroyed and for the reasons of the policies pursued by the previous governments and because they wanted this to be done, because they believed it. The phrase 'if there was no memorandum, we should find out' is exactly what it means, that we had to do these, and we helped impose it on us by others. So this attack on the memory of the Greek people is abusive and is abusive. Hybrid is a product of sorrow. The crusts are hybriding. So, let's see, what happened in 2015? A huge battle we've fought for. We lost, we said then. Because in politics, however, everything is judged on the result, we should also talk in Parliament and in our parties whether this was an ideological and political retreat or not. So we say that this budget is the first after the memoranda. Why is he the first after the memos? Not only because everyone else had to obtain approval from the Eurogroup, the institutions and creditors who wanted their money, but also because it was submitted, as all of the countries that are not under surveillance have submitted. We know the comrades of the JRC. That is unacceptable, but that is understandable, because the JRC wants the European Union to be dissolved. We're not talking about this now. Those who do not have that view must understand what is going on. I agree that we had to appoint thirty thousand teachers this morning. Can we? Oh, no. Can we appoint the four and a half thousand specialists to normal jobs? Do we need them? That is the first question. We need them. Do we have to appoint them? We appoint them. Do we want nine thousand? Well done. Next year the others will come. The view that you can configure everything within your desires, regardless of objective circumstances, is not politically understandable to me. I would also like to say this: is this a fourth memorandum that we are voting on now? Because that's what we heard. If it is a fourth memorandum, I am very pleased that this fourth memorandum is voted on by almost all parties, except for exceptions. We should also make it clear that what happened in the memorandum before we arrived at the fine moment when no one believed it in August, we gave the opportunity for more than 2 million people to go to the hospital, treat themselves as people only with AMKA and not go the tax billet. I know that, when a proper socialism is built in our country, this will all be unmistakable. By then we must rescue society, we must save the dignity of citizens and also favour their struggles for further conquests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please wait a minute, Mr President. On the occasion of what my colleague from the Communist Party said about schools, I want to say something. It's not about our House. It is about the Ministry of Education. Perhaps none of us could understand, except for the exceptions, that this year, in 2018, a problem and a request pending since 1961 has been solved. The seven years of night schools were again six. Maybe it doesn't matter to anyone. For me, though, when I was a night school student, it is of great importance and justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u384	We shall now proceed with Mr Athanasios Charalambos, Member of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a point about some of the SYRIZA Members - at least three - who said that corruption in our country has increased over the days of the New Democracy. I have to say to you - and you must be well informed, although I have been given the opportunity to say this again - that, for our days with laws that we passed in 2012, 2013 and 2014, our country in the international table of corruption countries has improved by twenty-five full positions. These bills, as laws of the state, exist today and you have not abolished them. On the contrary - and I refer to the colleagues who said that we had corruption - on the international table we have lost fifteen whole positions, and in fact we do not have the last ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u386	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u387	Listen. I didn't interrupt anyone. I have tabled them before this House, but I have to give an answer. Listen to me. You've lost fifteen whole seats. If you want, you can go back to the Minutes or tomorrow I'll bring them to you from the international tables. Therefore, do not talk about corruption. And yet the corruption contracts you have recently done have not been measured, which I do not need to mention. I do not know if it stands - we will see, Mrs Kozobol - but I hear that for the Independent Competition Authority, which is a sensitive Authority, it is intended for the chairman of a Prime Minister's advisor, which means that we will also have problems there with the institutions. Mr. Manier, I have to tell you something before I get to the point. I don't know, Mr. Manius is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u388	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u389	He always sits to the left, not to the center. That's why you don't see him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u390	It's okay, Mr. Manios is moved when left when right, but he's in the same space at all times. You said we were responsible for the country's economic disaster. You know I appreciate you very much, but I have to answer. Have you wondered whether you are also co-responsible from 2015 to today - beware - that you have not been abolished by an article? Think about that. So, you must be more careful. And now I'm gonna talk about the bill. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that in discussing another SYRIZA budget - I have a strong sense of meaningless repetition. Somewhere we've seen what's happening these days. We were just telling you last year that this is an anti-development budget that dismantles the real economy by creating excessively high surpluses, a small part of which is distributed as a counter-duty for extremely voters, because you allegedly care for the poor and the weak. One year later, nothing has changed at all about the substance. The economy is developing at anemic rate. And if there was no tourism aid, the economy would probably be in a massive recession, wintering by taxes and contributions that affect the private sector. It is true and it is noted by all international players that at the current juncture our country cannot come out on the market, as interest rates would be forbidden. Proof that the economy you've built is very weak. Even in tourism, however, little to nothing you have done. And this is reflected in the reduction of the money that each tourist spends in our country and in the total absence of long-term planning for the upgrading of the Greek tourist product, issues that our relevant sector, Mr. Konsolas, will develop to you. For your part, of course, the motto has changed slightly. You celebrate the so-called reductions and the social person in the budget. You hide, however, that little is said of the essential measures that you take, which in most cases alleviate the consequences of the policies you have imposed themselves, especially after the six months of the proud negotiation, which I imagine is already being taught to foreign universities as an example for avoidance. For example, for those of you who have a patient memory, the following. You're cutting the tax on business. Yes, sir. I ask: Who increased the rate to 29%, Mr Vetta? Isn't Mr. Vettas here? You're reducing insurance contributions for freelance professionals. I ask: Who established the robbery insurance contributions under the Katorugalou law, Mr Santorinier? Who will, after a holiday of course, request retrospectively two years for supplementary pension and one-off from the number of free professionals, taking with one hand what he gave with the other? It is, of course, also a question of not reducing pensions, which we did not vote on. You voted for it, despite our strong reaction. You have already cut these pensions with seventeen interventions while you are running and now you are triumphing their no further cuts. Of course, as the days pass, it is becoming increasingly clear that the gift that the lenders gave you was not in return. It seems that these days clearly what the consideration was, with the Zaev statements, which have forced even proponents of the Prespecies Agreement now to slowly turn them. We have said that this agreement has problems and is contrary to national interests and that we will never vote on it. Then you were telling us patriots and opportunists. Even for Nobel Peace, you have leaked your suggestion. And because I heard the Prime Minister yesterday say that it is clear about language and citizenship - beware of language and citizenship, because these are the components of the nation - what can the Skopje say today that the so-called Macedonian language is being taught in our country? But do you not read that in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the Agreement, the official language of Skopje is Macedonian? Is that what we're teaching in our schools? Why is that? For what purpose? Have you bothered to interpret Articles 1(3), 7(3) and (4) and 8(5) of the Agreement together, whose interpretation obviously relies on Zaev's preaching of indignation? But all good on planet SYRIZA - ANEL, since what you do is fair and must be done. I will not, of course, refer to the references to Prague Spring, because your speaker did not explain to us whether they were with the Dubcek Group and Otto Sik or Svoboda, but these are other issues and we will talk about them another time. Will you now force me to become a bad guy and ask: What exactly is fair in Moria's current situation? I do not even want to think about what you would say and what you will do if we had this human reproach on our day. What exactly is fair to the situation that has left our islands and after so many years have to manage most of the immigration? Of course, you legislated the transport equivalent to a law that goes beyond the announcements. Mr. Santorinios is gone too. Typical law of the SYRIZA era - ANEL, but without any opposition. And those of you from islands will know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u391	Don't have a dialogue, because time has been filled. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u392	And not only this, but also with the tragic FYROM you published on the implementation of VAT on the open sea, the whole shipping community is in a place of battle. Of course, not three, not three, before the two co-legislative ministers raised their heads and announced from the Step by the committee responsible that it would be revised. It remains to be seen how many months it will take to implement it. With regard to the operational capacity of the Port Authority, this really reflects the results of your unacceptable governance. Most of the sea and land inside the Port Corps have been off duty for months. The whole of the air means of the Port House is out of order. In fact, the Port Body's rehabilitation base in Elefsina has ceased to function, because it has no means of repair or repair or anything. Imagine that the representatives of the Port Corps are forced to resort to individuals - yes to individuals - asking them to do some minor repairs in their lands free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Athanasios, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u394	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are the policies that you have been implementing for about four years, which are considered successful, so successful that, for the supply of simple paper by the officials of the Ministry of Shipping, they are forced - not rarely - to pay from their pockets. And I keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u395	No, Mr. Athanasios, I can't leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u396	I'll close, Mr. President. I'm just going to set an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u397	Take an example and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u398	To understand what's going on with the pensions. When the Third Reich collapsed, Goebbels - I am not going to refer to Cheotas, the Chinese propaganda minister - seeing that there are no foods and that they began to frustrate and after the failure of Russian winter did the following. Then they gave each family two pounds of potatoes a week. Because they couldn't respond and wanted to reduce them, they started spreading that they'd get a pound of potatoes a week. Goebbels gave this to his own reporters...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u400	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u401	Hey, look at that! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u402	So, listen, at a gathering, Goebbels comes out of a balcony and says: What are they saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u403	Well, it's known from history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u404	Not a pound, but we'll give you a pound. And they applauded underneath. A similar thing is the question of pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u405	What do you want to say exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u406	Please, Mr. Athanasios! Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Nine minutes I've left yours too. I'm the one who's on top. Calm down. Only Mr. Manius was on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u407	Don't say names, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u408	It is not for that, Mr President. We're not protesting about time, we're protesting about Goebbels.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u409	Okay, now it's 21:30 an hour at night. Don't make a fuss. The impressive tonight, Mr. Aphrodite Theophevette is called at the Step. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it is unfortunate that the previous speaker's position was to compare such times, which his party was co-existent in order for GDP to actually reach war conditions, a 25% fall. Alas! Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 August the Prime Minister selected our island, Ithaca, with its special symbolism, to announce the country's exit from the memorials, the end of an eight-year adventure, an Odyssey for the country and the beginning of a new era, not without problems and with several challenges. The objectives we have set are to halt extreme austerity and gradually increase incomes, especially those which have evaporated in recent years, restore labour rights and restore social cohesion. Finally, the recognition of the need for society. We need society, ladies and gentlemen, for more democracy, for credibility in the political system and for combating corruption, for which - for all these reasons - the Committee on Constitutional Revision was certainly set up. Civic Opposition seems to have lost this institutional role to make substantial criticism, to put forward proposals and rushed to downgrade - and every day - this value by talking about damage that our Government has done over the years. What damage do we have to talk about? Why is unemployment steadily falling? Why are exports increasing? Why did two successful exits to the markets become? Why are major public works completed? Why is tourism growing? Why have revenues increased from the laundering of 'black money'? In 2015 it was 255 million, in 2016 it was 301 million, in 2017 it was 313 million and we are moving forward. Damage why did we increase building activity? I would like here to stand - since it has been my subject - since 2005, which has been a record year for issuing building permits, for reasons of VAT - if you remember - in 2017 after eleven years is the first year that we have increased building activity, which is certainly not reflected in the number of permits, it is mainly reflected in squares and in the volume of buildings. And here are not all these repairs to the buildings either because no permit is required or because a simple approval of small-scale operations is required. Ladies and gentlemen, from earlier assessments of the Technical Chamber of Commerce around the seventy professions, it depends on this cycle of construction. And within this recovery, I am not forgetting, last year, that I had enjoyed the efforts of the Ministry of Labour from this step in the last year's budget to reinstate all these abandoned buildings, the abolished insurance funds, which have been devastated for decades. So this is an attempt, too. And we see major buildings being renovated in the center of Athens in order to become five-four and four-four hotels or in smaller offices or shopping centers or apartments. What does it mean for professionals in the area, all this mobility, what does it mean for businesses, what does it mean for the neighborhood and, above all, what does it mean for ECA revenue? Why is it recognised by all the representatives of the institutions, by a valid international instrument, that this government's strategy bears? Why is our country's credit rating agencies being upgraded by international rating agencies, while it was Europe's poor relative? So, above all, in this reality that I mentioned, this 2019 budget is coming to disprove all those who claimed that with the exit it would not change anything after eight years, which for the first time has no budgetary adjustment measures. It is a budget that reflects the constant rise of the Greek economy as a result of sound financial management and responsible economic policy. And, of course, it provides for a growth rate of 2.5%. Increasing private consumption, small but small. An increase in exports of 5,8 while it was 7,5 in 2018. Increase employment. And therefore, unemployment is falling to 16.7%. I also have to refer to another part of the budget, what the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy said earlier. So while, in accordance with the European Union's directives and our Constitution for reasons of social cohesion, the disadvantage of islands is protected, and, in particular, to us, which is about 40% of the land area, the Greek islands, for the first time, the disadvantage of islands is recognized and to us the permanent inhabitants of the Ionian islands is recognized. From the total amount of 156 million for transport equivalents, a large part is equivalent to the Ionian Islands. For the first time, the Patras - Sami - Ithaca line is subsidized for us, and we hope that in a few days' time we will have a positive conclusion to the competition. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is a reality, it is not general vagueness, as the positive measures that have become a reality and have been voted on in the last month. We are gradually restoring the injustices imposed during the memorial period and our primary goal is to improve the daily lives of the citizens. We still have a lot of work to do. People see and judge. We have to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u411	Dear Mrs Theophevettus, thank you for the time. We shall proceed with Mr Barriotta. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. The budget debate this year is accompanied by an unambiguous effort by the government to give a tone of triumph and celebration. I have heard about a 'time landmark' just now by one of the ministers. I think one of the ministers certainly said that. I hear about big changes. Generally speaking, there is an ambitious attempt to cultivate a triumphant climate: A depository of the theory of the creation of the financial area, which, in turn, has allowed a pre-electional impulse, which is deliberately confused with prosperity and a new climate, which is supposed to come to the country. Of course, the impulse in the way that is being done proves that this government has not even understood the reasons why this country entered the memoranda, I am very afraid. Perhaps because he refuses to evaluate the period 2004-2009, which he insists not to see, from which he could learn significant lessons about how a particular type of management can lead the country to the rocks. But despite the attempt to create a euphoria climate - which I have to confess is a little more milder than the spring celebrations for a clean exit, at the time when we refused the credit line, because we would go out of the memoranda and no one would control us and go through a new era - the truth is that the course of our economy is still problematic and deeply worrying. I really hope we're disgusting everyone we're worried about. However, the most important element of the last five months, since 21 August, is that we have been in a weakness of borrowing. The country is unable to borrow, it is unable to restore a healthy relationship with what we call "markets with credit institutions", it is unable to raise capital at reasonable interest rates. The markets, you see, apart from international developments, are rather under suspicion and the investment programs or the lack of investment programs of the Greek Government and the original election benefit festival, which we have been watching lately. There's evidence that's been dense about it lately. The truth is that we cannot stand without the first pillar, which is the restoration of a healthy relationship with the markets. This is the first important step to be taken and it has not been taken. The second important thing is that surpluses must be produced from endogenous self-supported growth, capable of producing more wealth. The way in which this government, i.e. increased taxation, saves surplus and surplus, is, in fact, a vicious circle, as growth is intolerable. I would remind you that all the budgets of this government have a common feature: they fail to predict the rate of growth. Each year the growth rate is less than expected. I hope this time 2.5% will actually be confirmed, because it is necessary for the country. Nevertheless, the surpluses for 2019 are 3.6% or 7 billion euros. This means that even in the good 2.5% growth scenario, there is a difference that needs to be covered from somewhere. How is it covered by the budget and other revenue from taxes, about 600 million? Preservation of latents: it was in November around 3 billion and they have no tendency to come down. This also relates to endogenous fixed assets and chronic weaknesses of the Greek public. Worse: cutting down already abstract public investment programme. One of the problems within the crisis is the establishment of the public investment programme at very low prices. This year is even lower by 550 million. Reduction of the social state: The social budget, together with pension cuts, totals 1.2 billion cuts in this year. The philosophical government on the one hand divides social dividends and on the other cuts the social state roughly, cuts the education budget, falling from 4% in 2018 to 3.8% in 2019 as a percentage of GDP and decreases in absolute numbers. It practically maintains health expenditure. They increase by 100 million as a expectation of increased revenue, but fall as a percentage from 4.9% to 4.8%. This seeming stability allows some of the ministry's political leadership to talk about stabilising the functioning of the health system. Is that so? In fact, a stable budget of around 4.8% -4.9%, which is much lower than the OECD average, means that the problems that are dating and summed up in the health system from fixed sub-financing during the crisis are increasing and worsening. Despite the downside, the balance of staff in the National Health System is falling even in 2017. I don't have any data for 2018. The departures, however, are still more than the recruitments which are fewer than Mr Paulakis claims and are delaying. The balance is still negative, as negative is still the balance of infrastructure, which is falling and reaching what we say 'end of life' - I am talking about equipment - as they are not renewed, apart from donations, which are few and do not reach, no real amounts are actually available for their renewal and support. At the same time, no substantial reform is taking place. We are hearing about patches, we are hearing about additions, but in reality no substantial reform has been made. So what will it say about the National Health System? What will it say about the medicine, which the government is taking on, saying that it has managed to stabilise expenditure on the medicine? The last four years are 1,945, in the distorted way of claw back and rebate. We are the only OECD country that has stable drug spending. All other things are getting fatal, due to the increase in the needs of the population and the increase in innovative medicines that, as you know, have a very high price. What does it mean practically for the patient stable drug cost? It means increasing private spending, i.e. the money it pays itself for medicines and means reduced access to innovative expensive medicines. The government is, of course, being able to do the 12 therapeutic protocols it received, fifty in four years, but this is another conversation. Very few things went ahead. We have not seen a comprehensive health ministry bill in this House, almost a year. In the announcements we have reforms in education, medicine, the regulation of private clinics. All this is expected. We've abolished the CDC, and we've fired all of its employees. We've created a national neoplasm institution. That's all we've created in the announcements. In fact, no bill has been tabled since last April. All the government's pharmaceutical policy has become over the past two years with night amendments, mistakes in unrelated bills. The draft law with reforms or changes, of the ones that are being announced, we have not seen and I do not think we will be able to do so, because until the elections very little, unfortunately or fortunately, we will be able to see. So health and the social state are becoming both sacrifices to austerity and to aesthetic policy, which is different from the social state and the institutions, which are about the creation of the social protection network. We have no transfer from the excess to health, even to a symbolic level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Health, one of the most sensitive parts of public life, does not take a drachma from the famous surplus, which is concentrated well or poorly in this way. But overcrowding exists. Neither a drachma is invested in health nor in the famous reforms of the TOMMs, which are being mobilized, as, apart from money for appointments, no plan, no money for infrastructure, nor any other provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Barriott, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u414	I shall conclude, Mr President. Government policy, I fear, is clear to health. The establishment of funding, much less than the OECD average, at 4.8% -4.9% is devastating for a health system that has accumulated damage and deficits for ten years and is not an option for the troika. The government today makes a very specific choice. It sets the costs of the social state in order to be able to produce surpluses and to diffuse the costs of not cutting pensions into the budget. The pensions have not been cut, but the social budget is being cut by 1.2 billion. The degressive course of the ESS and the lack of primaryity for 2019 is now validated by numbers. With this money, no serious intervention in the health system can be done, as the reforms and investments that have taken place in recent years have been delayed. We are now talking about a pro-active system, which means very poor services for very poor people and the transfer of health costs in the pocket of patients who pay twice for health: once with insurance contributions and once with doctors' fees. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u415	We proceed with Mr. Constantine Morfidis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I hear opposition speakers repeating monotonously and confidently that this budget is the last of our government. The same thing they said last year, from Mr. Mitsotakis to Mrs. Gennamas. And one year later, not only were they disproved, but they also make the same mistake: jealous of the glory of Pythia. If you don't have the gift, why do you insist on making the same mistake? Colleagues and colleagues have spent eight budgets in the past eight years, which each one of them has brought measures and cuts to the public. Eight emergency budgets, bankruptcy management, implementation of the wrong recipe have been passed. Others ineffective and others who step by step led the country out of forced surveillance and economic policy. But we have been here today with a budget which, although it does not bring new measures, does not include cutbacks and is trying to introduce our country into a new reality, that of the memorandum era. Some in this Chamber stand awkwardly against the new data. They deny reality, assuming that if they admit that the memorials are over, they will automatically accept the failure of their own policy in the first five years of the memorandum. They refuse to separate the idea of memoranda, because that is their ideological view. They love austerity, they love cuts, they promote redundancies, and that is why we were repeatedly told that the memorandum is an opportunity. What chance did they see behind the memoirs? Cutting many out and giving them to the few, and now that they see that this is not going to happen, awkwardly looking at the budget, trying to change the concept of numbers, twisting reality with tricks magically, with arguments that break before anyone who is a serious reader of the budget. No one says that for the first time what the Prime Minister announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition was legislated before the budget vote. So how can they positively see the budget and the other positive things that are being done at this time, when four years of investing in destruction, when four years of media are now directing them to this rhetoric, why are their terrifying predictions being heard here and then brought to Parliament? So they shared horror for four years first with the cutter, sharing terror with the pension cut, and they will certainly do the same next year with the taxfree. When these are not enough to terrorize the world, they change the agenda, they talk about traitors, mocking the ears of the far right audience who wish to join. The important thing, therefore, is how the future of all of us is being prepared and, above all, the future of the new generation, because it is not enough for us to reduce unemployment. We make sure jobs are stable. We restored collective agreements and minimum wages at a satisfactory level on the basis of the juncture. For them, we have a responsibility to have a social security system that ensures tomorrow. So by stepping on the solid ground that with great effort and sacrifices we have managed to create for our country, we are planning a better future by taking steps, perhaps slowly, but firmly, because we do not want to go back to the difficult years of the memorandum, which the PASOK and the New Democracy policies have led us to. Letting all those who, for the sake of individual or party benefit, are willing to divide Greeks, sow empathy and cultivate national division.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Morfidis. Mr Georgios Katsiantonis has the floor. This is followed by the co-chairs. Apostle, Vakis, Vagionas, Panjas and Moraitis, and the fifth cycle is completed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, we have read and listened to many of the mouths of the competent ministers, but also of the Prime Minister himself, as far as the future of our country is concerned. With all that we hear, I really think that everything you promise you are going to carry out in 2019, unfortunately is in fact - and I am sorry to tell you - "in other words to be loved." To literally dominate, I don't see you ever loving because, you know, rejection brings grumbling and even worse. That is precisely what I see you're experiencing, since everything you say doesn't come out. The increase in the fixed capital of 2019 does not come about, which is predicted to be 11.9%, since last year's forecast fell by almost a corresponding percentage outside, since from 11.4% you said, you finally achieve almost zero this year. Nor will the objectives come out, since instead of putting more emphasis on growth, you are unfortunately insisting on the fictitious surpluses. You are celebrating the regular tax reliefs that you will bring and the allowances that come for vulnerable social groups, at the same time as the budget under discussion remains a time bomb for the Greek tax system. This is because Greece still holds the capital in the taxation of natural persons. In other words, you are celebrating what you are going to give so that you can get back at least three times through taxation. Indeed, according to information that brings to the light of publicity a study published by the Greek Chamber of Economics, it turns out that Greece is starting to distort, with data showing that 90% of the income tax on natural persons pays 19% of taxpayers. In other words, just one out of five taxpayers pays nine of the 10 euros collected by the State from direct income taxes. As for the wonderful countermeasures, I will only say that in the 2019 budget some 1.3 billion dollars are cut off, which amounts to about 1.43 billion. No more, but you made so much advertising, you wasted and spent so much saliva to talk about what they really will have on you. Now, who are they to have? Those who for free finally believed you and expected a school meal or rent subsidy or heating allowance. So you have already cut 190 million from school meals, 140 million from pre-school education, 300 million from energy infrastructure, 260 million from active employment policies, 240 million from the pharmaceutical involvement of the insured and 200 million from the rental subsidy and, of course, the annual heating allowance, which I will remind you that in New Democracy it was 210 million euros, and in your times it is 60 million euros. However, what goes beyond me is all your own legislation, since you are now aware that it is inappropriate to apply to practice. So you celebrate the change in the insurance of freelance professionals, which you yourself brought, while also changing the basis for calculating contributions for 2019. Of course, we also have the pension album. In fact you are creating two speed pensioners, one of those who rescue and save reductions of up to 18% by maintaining the personal difference and the other those who applied from May 2016 and all those who will deposit by the end of the year who have suffered part of the reduction. Not to mention those who will be retiring from 1 January 2019, who will have no personal difference. Now, if you think this is a rule of law, I don't know what else to say. The 2019 budget lacks provision and provision for increasing entrepreneurship in Greece. All we see is tax raids against natural persons and businesses, with data being at least disappointing. 83% of the legal income tax is paid by 4.5% of enterprises. 66% of ELVO's receipts are based on 33% of the owners' payments. In other words, the 2/3 of the approximately 2.5 billion which the State receives from the tax each year pays 1/3 of the owners. In total, eight and a half million people with VAT in our country, one million six hundred thousand, pays 7.6 million euros tax on a total of 8.5 billion taxes. In other words, the remaining six million nine hundred thousand citizens do not all pay together a billion taxes. On the other hand, you leave individuals unpaid in order to have surpluses. That is why, as of August, you have declared a posteriori payment, with the exception of tax, which offsets what it is to return with its future charges. As for the development of our industry, I will use the phrase I have heard at a recent event by the industrialists themselves. 'There is a real problem in the communication of a State-production state'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. But I would like to ask you: all these tax measures with your continued tactics, who are you going to impose them on? Have you realised that there will soon be no births in our country due to the ruthless economic policy that you have been pursuing for almost four years? And I am not saying this, but BSE, which is hitting the alarm in its recent report, according to which Greece's population has fallen so much for the first time since World War II. But, it turns out, these are, in fact, fine letters for you. That is why you obviously do not care, nor do you even think about taking on board, how you will reinforce your births, how you motivate the Greek family to increase, to move on with some new children, to make the idea of the family, since they are deprived of the self-evident goods of work, care - we must not forget your works with the family doctor, who was a complete failure - and decent living, after they have stayed up to forty fellow citizens, young children, with their parents because they simply have to live from the pension that parents get. I'm closing up with a sad observation. You can't achieve anything because you don't have any ideas and you don't have any ideas, because you don't have people who have them. Because as Kazantzakis once said: “There are no ideas. There are only people who carry the ideas." And they take the boo of the man carrying them. And this boi, with the vision for the next day of Greece, has the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis who knows and can proceed for Greece, with the Greeks, on the next day, that of growth and evolution. Admit it, gentlemen of the government. You can't, because you're just not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u419	We proceed with Mr. Evangelos Apostleou from SYRIZA and then she is Mrs. Fotini Vakis. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a budget that has as its starting point the first mandate given to us by the Greek people in 2015 to get the country out of the memoranda. We have done so, because these three and a half years of governance, great efforts have been made for us. I will focus on the efforts that have been made over the entire period in the rural area and their results. All the evidence, ladies and gentlemen, shows that the agricultural sector, despite the crisis, has not only been kept active and alive, but has also achieved a remarkable performance. It is typical of the rural economy's share of GDP, which from 2.7% to the start of the crisis has reached 3.9% and the increase in exports to 20% of the country as a whole, which means that the deficit in the trade balance of agricultural products is heading for zero. What did we do as a government to achieve this, but more? We are taxing 95% of farmers with the introduction of the tax-free limit. These are elements of the Treasury. We have also for farmers the minimum national pension of EUR 384 with the possibility of increasing it from remuneration. That's where the reward comes in. EUR 384 is the basic national pension. We supported young farmers up to forty years old, including all, that is to say those involved. EUR 300 million is given to sixteen thousand young farmers. We put order on the payments of Community aid. We have received 1,3 billion fines and so forth. We have considerably reduced them, without a single euro being charged to the Greek farmer. We have significantly reduced the time to pay ELGA compensation, despite increasing damage pressure. We made use of related aid, directly and effectively, to serve targeted policies by product and industry. We have introduced the farmer's card to finance agricultural work with a guarantee of Community subsidies, allowing beneficiaries to raise around EUR 1 billion. We imposed a restriction on the immunity of intermediaries with the mandatory payment of sixty days for fresh and vulnerable products. We have colluded by law, after intense and painful consultation within the European Union, the mandatory designation of origin of milk and meat products in animal products, with a view to market transparency and to avoiding consumer misleading. We have fought the European Commission for the protection of our quality products, and we have ensured significant funding for adding to the world market. We have introduced the mistress as a basic instrument for paying employment to the rural area and to the economic migrant, so that this expenditure can be accounted for as an exit to the rural business. We have brought in a new framework of cooperation, introducing incentives for collective forms of organisation, professional organisations and producer groups. We proceeded with the establishment of the DIAGE, a body that can make use of public agricultural land for the purpose of granting it to young people and collective forms. We relieve the rural area of the huge problem of its borrowing obligations. In case of total repayment, the deletion can reach up to 60% of the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, we have promised and kept it the day after the memorandum comes out, the abolition of the excise duty on wine, the reduction of insurance contributions and the introduction of tax incentives for workers. However, there are also commitments to farmers that must be implemented quickly, such as the introduction of the EUR 15 000 inconvenience, divided by EUR 1.250 per month. It is a commitment to the payment of the aid in question by the forest maps. We must not deprive the farmer of one euro. As I see both of the Ministers here, they also have to ensure that the ovine and caprine animals of the isolated regions are given emergency aid, because they are a basic activity in these areas and we have to keep them there. Ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector is today facing two major challenges. The first challenge is linked to the pressures placed on the Common Agricultural Policy budget after 2020. We insist that the budget should not be reduced, that there should not be a direct and complete external convergence of aid between Member States - we have already achieved this - and that any idea should be rejected even for the small-scale renationalisation of direct payments. The second challenge is linked to the implementation of the rural development and fisheries and sea programmes, which will mobilise some EUR 6.5 billion in total. It has already committed 83% of public expenditure on the Rural Development Programme and 71% of expenditure on the Operational Fisheries Programme. They are committed, in other words, to some 4.2 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen, despite the problems, we have positive results for the rural world and the countryside, which make it one of the most important tools for the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Tonight the Istanbuls have their honor. Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President, and the good words about the Intergovernmental Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to keep something from this year's budget, it is not the fact that it does not for the first time, after many years of monumental commitments, that it does not come up with generous tax relief for many, nor does it, of course, protect pensions and incomes. The reason why this year's budget deserves a special mention is because behind its figures, at the heart of the state's finances for 2019, man is found. For the first time perhaps in recent years, the social dimension of the budget appears to be strengthened. The fiscal sizes of 2019 do not only look at lenders, they do not have as their own the welfare of markets, but they bring the social needs, the needs of many after many years in the first place. The social dimension of this year's budget is the best response to those who want to save our country trapped in the austerity austerity. Both education and health and family policies, social welfare, employment 2019 budget expenditure appears to be increased, with emphasis on vulnerable groups, but also on social goods of health, education, housing and the protection of human dignity in general. Social solidarity income, the allowance of uninsured youths, family allowances, measures to combat unemployment, the grant of social security contributions for young people, the housing benefits of households and borrowers reflect expenditure which exceeds 3.2 billion. At the same time, public health expenditure is increasing, the hospital budget is being increased, the funds are being increased to meet the needs of citizens for the supply of health medicinal products, while spending on social, primary health system and social solidarity and welfare structures are being strengthened at the same time. Let's go to education. In education, too, for another year there is a significant increase in the available resources. Following the sinking of the costs of education of the Samara Government, the redundancies of teachers and the overall attempt to disperse the climate of insecurity throughout the educational community, today we can say that for Greek education the memorandum is over. And the upgrading of the country's academic map and the strengthening of special education and the coverage of the educational gaps throughout the territory crystallise the serious budgetary effort of recent years, to strengthen the many, which this year's budget seals. The New Democracy, the Qualifications, ladies and gentlemen, appears in the debate on the budget in a situation, I would say, of political disquiet. It does not seem to be enthusiastic that at the heart of the economy and the state's finances today, many, the social majority, all those who have paid very much for the price of the crisis. As was also not delighted by the Qualifying Opposition when this government sent the bill to the illegitimate canals, as it was not happy when pensions were finally rescued and supported or when social dividends were distributed every year or when the will was announced to increase private wages and recruitment in the neural sectors of the social state was announced. Against this background, therefore, in the 2019 social budget is the micro-political arithmetic of the New Democracy, which seems to detest social protection, social solidarity, the fulfilment of the needs of the majority. And since the Memorandum has come out and the 2019 budget contains no new measures, no new tax, the Accuracy Anti-Civilization resorts to the victories of a right-wing political opportunism, a neoliberal wallet and a nationalist gorge. That is what Accuracy Antipolitics today supports, identifying its rhetoric with that of nationalistic shapes of the extreme right-wing margin. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] However, as much as some of the market crows are calling and begging to prevent the country's memorial course, as much as some are investing in false news and scandalology, they know that the citizens' response will once again be democratic. For Greece of peace, solidarity, co-development, social state, friendship, good neighbourliness is the Greece that the democratic majority of the Greek people want, Greece standing against all those political contractors of nationalism, intolerance, but also of offshore and scandals. We therefore have a budget of fair growth with social recompense and with emphasis on all the social goods that the ideological partners of the troika and the memoranda have attempted to dismantle and transfer to unaltered profit. Even so, with all these maintenance forces across the street, the Left Government managed to justify the struggles, the struggles and the sacrifices of citizens. He managed to marginalize all those agreed interests that wanted social and employment rights. Therefore, with a guide to the social effort of the 2019 budget and a compass of transparency, justice, prudent and sound management, the new period will be a period of fair growth, healing of monumental wounds, a period of productive reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u423	Thank you. Mr Vagionas has the floor. Mr. Vayonas is not here, so Mr. Panjas is on the floor. Here, Mr. Panjah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday Mr Mitsotakis tabled a paper in the Minutes of the House with photos of everything we had worked with from PASOK. Not even wanted to be! I would therefore like to dwell on this and say this: in 1974, many of us - including - from the Left and the SAD were drawn up behind the founding act of PASOK and Andreas Papandreou, which was, to me, a left manifesto. If you read it today, you'll find out. This is a declaration which expressed in 1981 the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. And that happened, because society came from the wounds of the brute Right, which I lived on my back. Since I was a young boy, I was beaten by the battalionists, the fascist associates of the Germans, because my father was left and joined the NAM fighting for the freedom of our country. When I was deprived of my father at tender age and sent him out for seventeen and a half years of exile, when I was again one of the thousands who burned the newspaper "TA NEA" in Christos Lada, in 1965 protesting over the overthrow of the legitimate government by the apostates who clearly opened the way for Juda to come. Today, therefore, because we are talking about a young and old Mitsotakis family has the following account: a former Prime Minister, a Chief of Staff, a lady for many years Minister, all she has been missing in the family is the title of archbishop. If that, gentlemen of the right, it's not old, then what is it? So I will bring back the slogan of the time that is always timely as this is the well-known 'people don't forget what it means right', as well as forgetting those who put the country in the adventure of the memorials, that is, the PASOK and the New Democracy. Nor does it forget those who destroyed the country, bankrupt the country and loyally applied the saying "the stealing of the stolen man and his deceived person", those who corrupted and contaminated the political system decades now making all kinds of scams, which many of them were first-class names, but are in prison today. Today, then, eight years later, the time has come for the answers and the apologies and the answer is one. The country was destroyed and entered the memoranda with PASOK and New Democracy, and the country came out of them with SYRIZA. That is the truth, that is the reality, which enables the country to discuss today the first non-remembrance budget that does not take from the citizens, but gives what its previous governments have been deprived of: dividends, HNPH, reductions in contributions, retroactive wages, housing allowances, and pension cuts. The non-cutting that the right-wing channels went through completely in the shower, while all the previous time they terrorized the world that, on the 1st of January, pensions were cut and the death of retired people comes. What other government has stood or will stand closer to the Greek worker, the pensioner, the mother, the child, the human rights as the SYRIZA government has in practice stood? What other government is so much acceptable to the European and international community, when the previous governments were practicing international forums and institutions without giving them any attention, without a voice and a view of all developments? On the contrary, today the country has a voice, an international opinion, and this is due to the current government and its Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. So I'll recapture to close. The fact is one, that the people do not forget what it means right and right, and of course they do not forget which government stood next to him. And those who today in this Chamber doubt the answer will be given by the Greek people in October 2019 when the national elections take place. But they will understand it even better next year when in this Chamber we will discuss another SYRIZA budget, the one for 2020! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u425	Thank you for the time, Mr President. So the last speaker on the fifth cycle is Mr Moraitis, and then the Minister will speak. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Madam President. The 2019 budget is another anti-grass budget, deep class budget that creates a source of profit for capital, while for popular labour families it holds new hardships, new burdens. All the anti-grass laws of the three Memorandums remain here. We are in front of a Memorandum of Memorandum of Understanding. The barbaric anti-grassroots policy will continue, escalating despite the various bulbs, stacks, bankrupt benefits in which the government serves to parts of the people whose own policy and the former have led them to extreme poverty and impoverishment. The working class, the wide-popular layers paid, bleededed into the capitalist economic crisis. They will continue to pay, bleed, and any capitalist growth. Through the 2019 budget, the attack on the poor and medium-sized farmers continues. This attack is manifested with old and new tough anti-grassroots measures which literally reap the poor income of poor farmers and farmers. In this direction we have a wild tax on already looted agricultural income, and that is done not on the basis of real, but on the basis of implied income. And to leave the lies and chalices the government that farmers will pay less tax in 2019 than in 2018. The total opposite is true: they will pay 33 million euros more. And because Mr. Apostle left, I have to tell him that if with their struggle, with the grand blocks forty-five days on the tractors that arrived out here in the Constitution had not won the tax-free, they would pay an extra 268 million in 2018 and this seems clearly a loss of collection. And on all of this, poor farms are also faced with the unbearable cost of production. At the height of the VAT on all means and supplies, but a VAT exemption for imported investment gold. We have open prices in agri-food products, payment, price squeeze, and this is reflected in the most emphatic way in the price of sheep and goat milk that is cheaper than bottled water. The cartels are pushing the prices further down and producers are unpaid despite what the former Minister for Rural Development said, that they will be paid in sixty days with the law passed by his Government. And the main Prime Minister, causing the poor and medium-sized farmers who are in total collapse, went to a dairy industry in Kalavryta and said that everything is going well, defending the model of capitalist production, the directions of the Common Agricultural Policy. He said that PDO products would give solutions to poor farmers, as if PDO products were not here all these years. But they did not save the farmers who are in total collapse. What Mr. Tsipras did not say is that his government accepted that feta can make both Canada and South Africa. And the European Union, your home as you say, has given the green light to make Vietnam too. And the troubles of the farm are not over. Although the ELGA tax collects farmers, it does not compensate basic diseases in plant and animal production, as is now the case with the oil producers throughout the country who have suffered total damage from the torch, even though they have paid contributions to ELGA and contributions to the fraud. And because the Minister for Rural Development is here, Mr Minister, we are asking that all the olive growers be compensated for de minimis, as are the others. Gentlemen of the government, you are challenging when you say you care about poor farms, when you have duty-free tanker oil for shipowners' ships, and we have 1,5 euros for farmers' tractors. Your government has abolished this tax refund on agricultural oil, while on the other hand, you are simply giving 1.1 billion to support the profitability of capital through the reduction of excise oil. This is reflected in your budget. A few days ago you brought an amendment to reduce farmers' insurance contributions. It was ashes in the eyes of the poor farmer, because it is simply not about the vast majority of Greek farmers, that is, 80%. Who isn't? It is not about those whose policies of all governments are plunging them into poverty and living below the limits of poverty. In other words, with the law - looting Katrugalou, that is, to those who have an income below EUR 5,000, not only did you not reduce insurance contributions, but you are asking them to do so. So, what are you asking them for? You ask them to pay 1,200 euros for main pension and health contributions and tell them to live with 3,800 euros a year, to pay the ENGY, to pay the ELGA, to pay drugs. I mean, you're asking them to live with that money. Of course, we have forgotten that you are also giving them a 250-300 euro dividend. Do you know what farmers say? They say you take the crabs and give them crumbs. And while you characterize them with insurance contributions and tips, you are giving them hunger pensions of EUR 330, what Mr Apostle said, they are receiving a national pension of EUR 384. Farmers know very well, and let us say this to them, that with thirty years of insurance they receive a national pension of EUR 24. That's the pension. And you don't give pension to them. You owe them six months now, and you don't ask them how they're going to be Christmas. The national pension for all farmers will be paid in 2032, after 15 years and we are seeing it. Now, as far as the reductions in social security contributions are concerned, the farmers too, and the rest of you are boxers. Do you know how much this money is? It is 19 million when it comes to the alliance of the war of the disastrous NATO, you give 4 billion, of the undoing of the Greek people. The main tool for implementing this anti-grassroots policy is producer groups, compromised farmers' organisations, contract farming, inter-professionals, who set back to integrate small and medium-sized producers into the objectives of capital. That is why it is important today that the anti-grass attack and the promotion of the capital's strategy find obstacles, make it difficult not to give the working people's consent, not to pass on the propaganda tricks of the government, which are intended to put further the people's fair demands, to form false dividing lines between the more and less poor, to legitimise the policy that breaks down rights, when capital, which seems also through the budget, does not only remain in the unavoidable, but is increasingly strengthened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Workers, poor farms, other people's layers, young people, must fight, collide with the JRC on the other path of development that will help the working class, the people of labor, the poor farms. And this is the path of popular power, with socialisation of the capitalist farms on the land, the mechanised means of production, the state infrastructure and trade, in order to integrate them into state planning, with the aim of meeting the modern nutritional needs of our people with quality products, products that will give the manufacturing industry the raw material to combat unemployment in rural areas and in urban centres. Socialised state production will exploit all the productive potential of the country, not for the profitability of big capital, but for the purpose of satisfying modern food folk needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u427	Thank you. I will now give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arahovitis, for ten minutes, and then we will enter the sixth circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed discussing the first Memorandum of Understanding, and that seems clear from everyone's positions, because this is the first time that we are not discussing cuts and new measures. But the criticism of the government is why we are not doing more. That's good. That's good. For the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, therefore, on the basis of the budget and its draft report for 2019, the Ministry’s regular budget of EUR 258 million and the Ministry’s Public Investment Program provides for EUR 852 million, reaching a total of 1,11 billion compared to the 1,069 billion estimated for 2018. So we already have a significant increase in the budget. More detailed, while in the regular budget there seems to be a 200 billion reduction, these have been transferred to the Public Investment Programme, which means that they are intended for productive projects, for improvement projects, for projects that the Ministry can implement, which are genuine infrastructure and development projects for the farmer, both for the reduction of production costs and for modernising Greek agriculture. Another element that one will notice by reading the budget carefully is that in the code for the deficit of the ELDR, which is the fines and charges, while in 2018 we had 142.5 million, this year we have 100 million. We have 42 million less for fines and charges. However, let us now see an account of the Ministry's activities so far. Let us start from the Rural Development Programme now being implemented in 2014-2020. The 2014-2020 Programme is a programme of 6 billion. It was approved by the European Union - and this is important - in December 2015, with one year's delay. Why is this delay due? Commissioner Hogan recently reminded us that he was here last week. The original project submitted came back from the European Commission with four hundred and fifty observations. All these correction observations - in fact a new one was made - in the time that we had and started its implementation, a whole year later. The programme is therefore only now being implemented for three years. In these three years, 83% of the programme has already been activated, a total of 32 billion public spending has been planned, and by the end of the year two very important and folklore programmes, the 'Biological Agriculture' programme, measure 1.1 and measure 6.3 have been expected to develop small farms. Payments under the Rural Development Programme have so far reached 1.7 billion public spending and are expected to have exceeded 2 billion by the end of the year. For the year 2018 - only the year 2018 - by the end of the year, they will have reached over 670 million. But let's see the absorption. The Agricultural Development Programme is currently presenting the second best rate of payment growth among the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union. So the program runs. These are the performance of the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme of a total budget of EUR 521 million. We have so far a commitment of 67%, we have triggered nineteen measures, while the total payments made so far are EUR 55 million. In addition, by the end of the year we are expected to have an additional 5 million more payments. I now come to the reports on the ELGA payments. The ELGA has so far paid EUR 154,8 million to cover losses for 2017 and tomorrow it is expected that the producer accounts will be paid another EUR 17 million in respect of all 2017 losses and we will continue to pay the year 2018 payments. Since last year - and this year is the second year - we have been paying back losses within the same year as the losses, which we have had many years to see. This year, as you can see from the heights of the ELGA compensation, there have been particular climatic conditions which have caused many problems in agricultural production. If the damage covered for 2017 reached 170 million, the non-covered damage was for 2017 and 2018, too, a very large part. So we have decided, in order to support farmers' incomes, precisely because of uncovered losses by their insurers, the ELGA, to activate the de minimis aid tool. So we went on to provide financial support to farmers in Crete and Lesvos for epizootic diseases. We proceeded with the de minimis administration to forty-five thousand ovine and caprine farmers, the Prime Minister of the Kalavrita announced. We are giving de minimis EUR 8.2 million to tobacco producers in five counties. And, finally, we are going to compensate within the year, aid through de minimis EUR 10.2 million to the peach producers in the country. Now let's go see the legislative work. In 2018, then, it was a year in which we had, and recently, very important legislation for farmers. As the Prime Minister had announced from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the trade fee for cooperative farmers was abolished. Remember, though, when did the trade charge be imposed? Because the Prime Minister yesterday told us that whatever tax exists in this country was imposed on SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u429	Not the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u430	You said that right. That's a great thing you said. Lantern language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u431	The potential Prime Minister. The one who dreams. So Mr Mitsotakis forgets that the trade charge for farmers was imposed by Law 3986/2011. It's in Article 31(3) so you don't look for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u432	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u433	Look into it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u434	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u435	Now what are you doing? Dialogue? It's too late for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u436	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u437	It's a later one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u438	It's no later than that. It's not n. 4172/2013, if you say that. He's not there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u439	There he is with a five-year grace period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u440	Minister, don't answer. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u441	Therefore, the measure was granted a five-year extension of the duration of the measure from 2011 to 2019 and would be the time to end the five-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u442	Eleven plus five, sixteen. It wasn't 2019, if it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u443	For 2013, which has been applicable since 2014. Measure from 2014 five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u444	L.4172 is 2013. Since 2011, it's not coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Besyropoulou, if you want me to say your name, so that it sounds like you're here, let me say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u446	Since 2014, add it. Plus five is nineteen. Read. It's not bad. I give you the paragraph. Consider it, I give you the paragraph. It's Article 31(3). So let's not waste time, because we have enough to say, and time is pushing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u447	What can we do if you're answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u448	It was not much time, Madam President, on this. We have therefore proceeded with the legislation to reduce farmers' social security contributions by 33% in the pension sector for farmers with the largest incomes actually borne. However, the vast majority of farmers paid the same or less than they paid for the OGA without taking account of the maturityes every three years, provided by the old law. Farmers - who lived it every three years - had an insurance maturation. So every three years they went to the highest insurance category. Under the Katorugalou law, a large majority were found to pay less than it had already paid before ripening and the recent legislation was reduced by 33% and the pension sector. Last week we also had the abolition of the excise duty on wine, a tax which we all remember under what conditions was imposed. In 2018, however, we also had a number of other arrangements for both the debts of farmers, which were predicted to be 100% deletion of interest on loans, interest on late payments, increases and fines to the public and their regulation in a hundred and twenty instalments. We have moved on to support for farmers, where young farmers up to forty years of age joined all of them and all of them involved. The whole of the rural road projects requested by the local authorities were integrated, and we had a number of approvals both in the processing of fisheries and in the modernisation of fishing vessels and a number of other measures. Institutionally, we have made additional management measures for the Vinzotrata tool by banning eleven additional areas. And we move on to review the operation of the gear in order to serve the purpose for which it is located and caught. Another important initiative we took is that, on 1 November, all the concessions, which applied to rural areas of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, were abolished. The system now becomes transparent, the law applies, Law 4061/2012 and the land will be granted under these procedures and not by extensions. And a series of other initiatives. But I want to stand at one more point. The Ministry has been in charge of a geotechnical recruitment notice since 2008. 30% of the staff have established pension rights. He's in a situation that doesn't go anymore. So we move in 2019 to the recruitment of geotechnical and other necessary skills, permanent posts, and at the same time to join the New Professional Employment Program, starting in the next cycle of cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, a series of skills necessary for the proper functioning and performance of the Ministry's work. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several things to be done. Time is not enough to analyse them. However, the situation in the agricultural sector is not the best and no one should celebrate for that, and we all know it and farmers know it. What the place needs is solutions. What farmers need is solutions. He needs a job, he needs a plan, he needs a program, he needs a targeting and measuring results. I would invite you to listen to the rural world, the world of production. What he wants is to secure his toil. And he wants something else. He wants social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u449	I left time because there was a break. At the same time and because he is the last minister. So now we're going on with seven minutes that's time for speakers. Mr. Kourublis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u450	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I want two or three minutes for a personal matter. I was honoured by the President-in-Office of the New Democracy the other day to describe me as an ‘old’. Madam President, I am from a rural family, from a small village of Atolokarnania, Vatos, of Pontian origin, who came from Pontus, a victim of the division of that period. And in my ten years with weapons of perseverance, I managed to get this far without being a prime minister. This, then, of his struggles, brought out dozens of thousands of disabled, confronting the social constructions of all those years. This old Minister of Health dared to go to the Council of Ministers and to the World Health Organization Assembly and tell them that "Lords, here we are representatives of peoples and peoples and not of companies". So Europe and the World Health Organisation - they are registered - must negotiate with multinationals the price of innovative medicines to make them accessible to all people. This old one worked with his partners at the Ministry of Health and we proceeded with the decision to secure two and a half million people who were uninsured because some of you probably didn't need it, you went to Henry Duncan for free. So this old abolished the five euros that you were preparing, if the Samaras government had not fallen, to do 30 euros - remember what had happened with that story - and frozen the increase in the participation of citizens in drugs. Mr. Mitsotakis, that's why you ask the mayors of the New Democracy what they had to do with the work that they did in the Ministry of Interior. He established and established the National Commission for the Codification of Legislation. And this old call called you, and he asked you to speak without having to do so, and you put one - I will say - worthy of man in this committee. This old outfit at the Ministry of Shipping has brought huge overshadows. What happened to the ferry? Tell me a mayor who protests about the work that took place on the coast. What about the transport equivalent you've been feeding it for for forty years? What about the composition of the crew of ships pressed by the troika to reduce the composition of ships? What about the first increase after eight years of seafarers? What happened at the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, when we actually negotiated two contracts that put in another, completely different, perception of what it means to private investment, with compulsory investments and not with air, allowing municipalities to receive 3.5%? Mr. Mitsotakis, ask Mr. Krizaglou, a good mayor to tell you what the work we have done with concessions of space in many ports, with an effort to upgrade the shipping and education of young people. Ask your hometown in Chania how many years was the school abandoned? Ask them now what's going on to see. Ask Mr. Eugenides or ask what happened with the pleasure boats. Ask Mr Stellito and Mr Vernico to tell you exactly what has happened, who dared to clash with what he was fighting, with the illegal charters, on the Aegean Sea by Turkish ships. And not only that, but more. Madam President, a few years ago we all know that the Berlin Wall fell, but between the societies now, and not at the people's borders, walls have been eroded, anti-socially, outside which the system throws off all the unwanted, all those who are desperately left in an abandonment area, people who are immersed in the 'cutter' of despair and imprisoned in melancholy and impoverished. What has happened in France is in all the societies of Europe, because neoliberalism, who has declared that it would solve problems of society in the areas of unemployment, development, has shown that millions of people have forgotten this development in which he believed. So the Sarkozy model, a conservative man, the socialist Olad model and the model of today's president, Central McCron, have now evaporated. Peoples are in a despair, a despair that in the area they are, as I said before - Rener Roa - the good poor is easily becoming evil and possibly also becoming criminal on the altar of self-reservation. If we do not respond to this as a political system in Europe, Europe is under threat. It will be taken over by forces trying to deceive societies in the altar of nationalism. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are today transferring Marx's capital and Uggo's Athletes to what is happening and what is being recorded today, we can easily claim that they were written about the current real social situation. Here, then, we are called upon to granify this reality, to see that there is a core of extreme poverty, that there are people next door who, while they could not imagine that they would be found in such a fate, became “the fatalities of fate” and found in this situation. These people are close to the resignation if there can be no effort to promote the state's interest. So you tell us what this left-wing government has done and what it does. It has a specific political choice, a specific political project: to support the 'cold' of the crisis, to support all those who are threatened to turn part of our society into a social cemetery. What has not been done in Europe and which threatens social systems in Europe, because it is powder on the back of Europe's social system. I therefore consider these policies, which have been pursued and exercised by this government, to be policies which really support those who first need the most.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u451	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u452	I shall conclude, Madam President. The measures for the "Help at Home" programme and for the first time after twenty-five years a life program, which life itself confirmed, comes to gain stability and a series of measures that really have to do with the most vulnerable people. In the face of this social crisis, the progressive forces in Greece and Europe must answer the big question, the question that says 'is there wealth'? Yes, sir. Does anyone question it? Oh, no. How the poverty virus at the same time pollutes the social body more and more into all the peoples. So will the progressive powers be responded? I would dare propose to all the progressive forces of this country. We can also discuss a spirit of understanding and cooperation, but we still dare to take down a single European vote. It will be an extravagance, offering to the progressive forces, in the society that really seeks it and claims it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u453	Thank you. Mrs Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr. Constantine will follow. My colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you have had an opportunity to flirt with a little modesty and self-criticism in the run-up to your term of office and, unfortunately, you have lost it to the end. Because I have heard the SYRIZA Members from this morning and I have heard Mr Tsakalotos wonder if on the side of SYRIZA he was abducted - he says - never a divisive reason in this Chamber and if the SYRIZA MPs ever said "prosecutors" at the time. I wonder: The inspirations of the most dissatisfied, the most toxic political speech that has been emancipated, the open-minded or oral Prime Minister 'or are we ending or ending', are you now saying 'bad virgins', asking for the rest? You have, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, too gray, not to say black past, to move the finger to us, so, please, no lessons and suggestions to us. No lessons to us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. In this light, this year's budget debate could be termed strangely repressive and liberatory, not of course for its content, as the rapporteur, Mr Vettas, claimed here, but for it is certainly the last budget of this devastating government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as the overwhelming majority of the Greeks say, finally. Finally, the government of unscrupulous taxation of twenty-nine taxes. Finally, the Government of the seventeen cuts in pensions, the cut in the EAEC, the control of widow’s pensions, the checking of heating oil from EUR 210 million and the advance payment of the "bad" New Democracy, to EUR 60 million of the "sensitive" SYRIZA - ANEL government. I wonder now, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple: are they not freezing and dying of fumes? Finally, finally, I am sure that the government that broke down the premium for agricultural oil for farmers - the Minister said nothing about it - finally the hunting of productive Greece, ending in the rajadism of subsidies policy, the kingdom of lawlessness, the shooting of institutions, the tolerance of the bazaars. Of course, there is an end to the economic debris, which, with a hard effort, will once again be called upon to restore them. The wound you have brought to the national Parliament on the issue of Skopje, unfortunately, is bleeding, because you have handed over ethnicity and language, you have given everything for a few days of power, for financial facilities, for back hits and good words from the foreigners who have until yesterday swept through. Uncircumcised, unrelated and disillusioned: This is the raw and hard truth that you need to listen to well, as Mr Kammenos must listen better than all of us, who threatens us by resigning from the ministerial chair, if the agreement goes through from the neighboring country. Has your co-pilot understood that he is the Minister of Greek Government and not the Member of VMRO? Who is he threatening, Mr. Zafe? Who does he think he's finally making fun of? He is the one who held Mr. Kotzias' pen tightly on the "black" day of the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, no matter whether today they are condemned and said by Mr. Kotzias about Mr. Kammenos that he is politically dead, he and his party. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and ANEL, with the most chasing, ideological policy ever pursued in the agricultural world, the government that blew off the tax rates, taxed agricultural subsidies for the first time, imposed an insurance raid and gigantic production costs, leading to the countryside of extinction and agricultural activity in abandonment. Thousands of acres, Minister, remain uncultivated - and Eurostat says so - I am not saying this - because, with one and a half euros, farmers cannot fill their tractors and because very simply the most possible income ends up in the public fund. At the same time, of course, because of the overtaxation of black docks undisturbedly orchestrated under the nose of a nonexistent control mechanism. Finally, Mr Minister, and the slaughterer of livestock and, in particular, of sheep and goatmeat, who you are genuinely proclaimed. Finally, the total lack of controls, unexistent milk balances for eighteen months. I'm not talking about it. Your supervised ELGO “DIMITRA” says so. Finally, at the party of Hellenism, in the distorting distribution of the compensatory compensation, which you have deprived of from the sheep and goat farmers of mountainous and disadvantaged areas, by these ambassadors of the Greek feta. Finally, you did not say, Mr Minister, in the end, that all the prices that have been broken down - and that leads to the slaughter of valuable livestock. You are now coming to "and five", according to the friendly donation policy, and you are organizing a protagonist with the Prime Minister from Kalavry and you are giving de minimis money to the Greek taxpayer to cover the catastrophic things you have done. "To burn you, Yannis, to make you feel better," says the people very wisely. If I also judge the FEO you have published today, ultimately the 42 million to be paid for in the sheep and goat sector is 41, Minister, and if I see what you say about a linear reduction, I am afraid that if all of them are paid, there will not be 5 euros for the head, but three euros for the head. So you opened the pudding - because we have a pre-election period, as Mr Brutsi said - and you share de minimis crumbs for peaches, tobacco and then, since you have not taken care of, Minister, as your counterparts have said since 2016, of claiming Community funds to the Councils of Ministers on climate change issues. You referred to the ELGA, Minister. Another painful story. But you did not tell us, neither did you nor the Minister of Economy, where these 50 million reserves of the ELGA, which was wiped off by the flawless memory of Yiannis Varoufakis and which has been declared an informal posture of payments to ELGA. It is paid 70% of the advance, due from 2017 to 10%, which you said you will pay for tomorrow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Likewise, a posteriori, Minister, and pensions. The former OGA insurers on our day, the 'bad' of the New Democracy, received their pension without a second word on 31 July. Today we expect thirteen thousand pensioners in the dark on 16, 17, 18 to get their pensions paid, and we have five thousand standbys on widow’s pensions and disability pensions, and at the same time you have the nerve, because you abolished the electronic protocol and got the handwritten twelfths, to ask for insurance contributions from the pensioners. Congratulations! There are also people who have died and applications are still pending in the OGA or in the CEPR. I am closing the issues of rural development with your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u455	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u456	All SYRIZA MPs spoke nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u457	I'm five and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u458	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u459	Look at your time to see where you've arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u460	I've timed it. And of course, Minister, because you have dealt with the Rural Development Programme, your absorbing candy, please stop it. Absences equal to payments, not notices. Well, four years later... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The fact that the Rural Development Programme was last approved in the European Union is your responsibility. And with regard to these lies about the remarks, all the Member States have comments, but they are rushing and fasting and sending the programme approved. Four years later, the core of the special programs is in its drawers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u461	Come on, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u462	But not in the real economy, of course. You said nothing about the 226 million forests, Madam President, which neither the fire in Eye has made you aware of to activate. Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u463	Not 'closing'. You're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u464	Finally, Madam President, I cannot help talking about a matter that hurts my country, the Serres, it hurts Macedonia and it hurts all of Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u465	Ten minutes, Madam President! It couldn't have been a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u466	I'm fine, Mrs. Birthday! You are the government, who has left the universal monument of Amphipolis with a party empathy. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You'll hear them. Obviously, because the treasure that lies there is disturbing Mr. Zaev and your new allies, the one who is unregulated speaks of Macedonian language and Macedonian minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u467	Okay. Thank you very much. It's not over by Mrs. Arabatzis. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u468	However, the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, will not forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u469	Yeah, for ten, eleven minutes. Please, what are these things? Come on, Mr. Constantinea. And please, you'll all speak for seven minutes from now on. I'll interrupt you if you exceed time..
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u470	I can do less, Madam President. The results are more than what we say. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we understand and fully understand the anguish and disappointment of the State's administration, because it has to be placed in the first Memorandum of State. Because last time we were here, we said it would be the last memorial. I remember everything. The historian of the future will not mention the Civic Opposition as a party that has given solutions, pulling the country out of the dangerous spiral of the Memorandum Obligations. The historian of the future will make an explicit reference to a government, our government, which has finished the memorandum, with prospects and results for the weak social groups that have taken up this Golgotha, which you have imposed upon them by your irresponsible policies and your immoral policies. We received a country in 2015 with 28% unemployment, with a public debt of 180% of GDP, with a loss of GDP of 25%, as if we had a war, with 65 billion euros. Inside this was the famous Success Story of my patriot, Antonis of Samaras. They cut wages, pensions and labour rights. And you go now and make visits, like your Vice-President, Mr. Adonis Georgiades, who came out to the hospital and said they didn't accept him, because when he was a Minister of Health he was fired. Why? That's a comeco-trag that's done. Meanwhile, the new generation has made tickets without a return because they knew that as long as you had the country, they're not coming back again. On the other hand, these three and a half years we have made a painful compromise, but to find a light in the tunnel, bring unemployment from where we received it to 18%, raise primary health and give free access to those who did not have the right and the money to go to private hospitals. They were two and a half million of our fellow citizens. We have brought a series of social measures, such as the social allowance, which in the first year you did not vote for, and when you went to your villages you did not know what you would say and you were forced to vote now, the school meals, the transport equivalent, the recruitment of staff to nurses who you fired to cover standing and constant needs and not the recruitments that served political offices of the CICP. We managed to return to positive growth rates, such as those revised upward targets in 2018 and the projected 2.5% of 2019. The country regained the confidence of the international partners, which you said "How do you get out? The country has been humiliated.” And now you're turning it to us otherwise. You say we made Moscovisi love us. On the one hand, you said 'Look at what foreign partners say' and now you blame foreign partners. And can I tell you something about Moscovisi, since he came here? Change the schedule. The pensions aren't cut. Tell Mr. Hatzidakis to change it. You tell him, we'll see what schedule you'll bring. You're unscheduled, it's over. And all of this, in a Memorandum status up to 110 days ago, as you do no real effort to get the country out of the memoranda in 2014. And you sent the e-mail Hardouvelis with 1.5-2 billion euros, but you didn't know what would answer you. And after the European elections, the country had taken refuge because you were giving benefits because you were afraid not to fall from the government and the growth rates and all the economic indicators were lost. And you came and told us that we blamed you for the President of the Republic. Why did you not make the election of the President of the Republic on the right date? But you have now seen what it means to get out of the memorandum. You saw the collective agreements that have come back, the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of taxes, the reduction of insurance contributions, the imminent increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinated wage. And that is why I tell you that the historian of the future will, unfortunately, record for you an amnati and a expectation of the cutter you wanted. Because we have brought 'the donor'. Where's the cutter? Last year, didn't you say "cutter"? Last year, didn't you say "cutter"? Take the donor, gentlemen. You will remain ambiguous with the expectation of the pension cut, with what you were saying. You will be left unannounced with your narratives, which fall apart after one another. Ultimately, gentlemen of Officerial Response, your party will remain ambiguous with all these far-right elements that you have collected, because you do not respect either the history of your party or your founding statements. In other times they would never make it to the garden of old Rigilli. And you want me to tell you something, Macedonists and superpatriots? That'll burn you, because when you sent Spyraki out and said she had a problem inside, it's right, the deal, you knew they'd leave you twenty MPs. Others are the President of the New Democracy on paper, and others are the real one. Find him. And can I tell you something? We're more housewives. We don't owe our party, he owes you. What do you say to the Greek people in the villages you're going to go down now? That we put our'magasy', our party, 200 million euros in it, comes to Piraeus Bank and asks us for the money and we get people's first homes? And you come here and you think about the first homes? Bring the money you owe back. I shall end, Madam President, and apologise. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, you were the problem and we are the solution. You're the political darkness and we're the political light. You are the disappointment of the Greek people and we are the hope that we said in 2015. You are the ones who will come here next year with us government again say 'yes' to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u471	Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is late, I believe that the Minister's presence will help us all to have a substantial debate on budgetary issues. If a colleague came directly to the House and sat only ten minutes, he would have to say anything else, despite what he had written or thought. However, being here and listening to the speeches, I could not comment on the question that all problems in health have been solved. I would like to ask why all that money you say, ladies and gentlemen, that they have gone to health has not come to Arcadia. I want to tell you that for the last five months, the coroner who's been a donor doesn't work because there's no money. I want to show you the hospital seal for children suffering from hypothetical insufficiency, for whom the hospital pharmacy says there's no dose in the hospital. I would like to say to all of you, to the Minister for Health, to the Minister for Rural Development, that I am asking myself, in Laconia, who goes who applauds him? The galats or the cattle farmers? If the milk is said to be 'yes', I will say 'yes', but the farmers cannot applaud it because the milk has been reduced 12 minutes. Today, here, you say about us that we have put the country in the memoirs. I voted for the memos. But at the same time you applaud Mr. Kurublis for voting half the memorials with us and half the time with you. This is hypocrisy, which is not perfect. And it's not worth everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the country, apart from finance, needs investment. And the investments in recent years with these banks, which you have given foreigners by losing all the money of the CFSF, the CFSF, the 24.5 billion - and now I hear that you want to bring them back again - cannot finance the Greek economy. We have made a specific proposal for red loans, for bad bank, which can be the only way to support businesses, to help banks and help small and medium-sized enterprises. Spain has done so, Ireland has done so. You and other parties react. You're not doing anything to solve these issues. But, Minister of Finance, and responsible for the General Accountancy, are they in line with what you are told about the NSRF with what you are collecting in the General Accounting Office and I mean with taxes, VAT? So, from the 26+2 billion we've taken for 2014-2020, today, Minister, where are we being absorbed? Just 5.2 billion, Minister, I know why you have the data - two years before the programming period is over. And do you know where the big fall is? Projects have been completed since the previous period. You want me to tell you about the Infrastructure Fund? It's 20% down, absorbed from 1 billion to 824. At ENENEK is a dramatic picture: 39% reduction, Minister, and you know it. As for the Juncker Pack, I'm not talking. For the Development Bank announced by Mr. Drasakis, what can I say? You'll know something, Minister, if you'll answer it, when you'll legislate. For the financial tools, the only two are, the fund is for small and medium-sized enterprises, TPIX 1 and TPIX 2, which are now starting to work. The rest? We're still talking about it. And I'm going a little fast, Minister, because I want to get to a very big issue - which you probably know, you may not know - the issue of 'Larco'. Why are investors afraid of Greece? What's the matter with the people you put in Larco? What is happening between LARCO and PPC? Minister, I just want you to listen to me. You know that at the moment "LARCO" owes PPC 285 to 290 million, as is its stock exchange value, 144 million by 2014, the rest of the aftermath, I say so to have the data. I shall put it before you, Minister, because there is an issue of violation of administrative laws on the issue of greenhouse gas emissions. In 2015, the LARCO meeting was informed of the European Union Regulatory Framework in the field of greenhouse gas emission reductions and of the relevant obligations of the company for the period 2013-2020. Therefore, under this Rules of Procedure, the company's expected deficit must be paid, and I would ask you to listen - eight hundred thousand rights to have been bought by then. If this is not done, a fine of EUR 100 per right is imposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute and a half. On December 15, 2017, while on the board of directors there is a discussion and a decision is made: "No rights will be sold", listen to what your own people decide on December 15, 2017: "Information on the financing of a company by means of emission derivatives transactions", that is gambling, that is, with a gradual plan in 2015 to ensure quickly, direct money. Where do they buy this money, ladies and gentlemen, at what price? With seven euros. I invite you to see the decisions: there is no Council decision, the President and the Vice-President that you have appointed, Minister. I'm not saying anything more. Where are we in 2018, ladies and gentlemen? Where's the price today? 20 euros, Minister. Do you want to be fast in math, tell us what's the difference from 7.5 to 20? How much money was paid to middlemen? It's 4.2 million euros. The two representatives of SYRIZA, who were appointed and lost the company within a year and a half, were decided by the company, without any decision being taken with the board.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u473	Finish, Mr. Constantinople, what kind of mania is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u474	I shall conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, following the complaint I made to you, you, ladies and gentlemen, and after the complaint that the IGC's decisions. "LARCO" is not compatible with its PPC obligations, will you call the prosecutor or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u475	Please respect the time, they are two hundred MPs written. It's not that we're done today. The thing is, what about the rest of them, they're gonna have time to talk? Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u476	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr Constantinople to remain a little, because I would like to say something to him. Because he really made a reference to LARCO, I don't think he should miss a few things about what happened to LARCO in the past few years. You will remember with the hedging price, where all the then-sales administrations, when the nickel was sold with $50,000 tonne and had blocked the price for 20,000 -- you will remember it - and they put the company with 400 million inside - and you should know that - when our country was convicted of state aid...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u477	Karamanlis Period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u478	Now, you're gonna listen to me, because I heard you and I think you're talking to a man who knows that and fortunately I happened to talk after you. I would ask you to be very careful. And I think, as far as the issue of administrations with LARCO is concerned, you should be very careful, both in relation to relations with PPC, both with the huge waste, which has happened over the past years and with State aid. This is an issue that will follow. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a law that is truly historic, the country's first Memorandum of Understanding, the first budget for budgetary expansion, after a decade of shrinking, a decade of suffering and misery for the Greek people, who four years ago trusted this government for its salvation, and today it is justified. Because it is clear, it is understood by all citizens that by recycling the materials of the old political system and its practices not in ten years, but in a hundred years we would not come out of the biggest crisis in the post-war history of the Greek state, which the same system created and enlarged. I would now like to focus on some of the points in the budget which, in my opinion, give me the signal for the government's plan for the coming years. So the 2019 budget has one key feature: it is developmental, but that is not enough. Other budgets before the memoranda were developmental. We used to have growth in our country. But the growth of GDP, with borrowers, without looking into the future. What we did not have with the exception of - I will say - the creation of the ESS - the creation of the ESS rather than its operation after the PASOK - was social state and social justice. That's why we got here. This is what the 2019 budget is trying to correct. For the year 2019, therefore, the change in the fiscal policy mix brought the measures we have adopted and announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki in September 2018. It should be noted that the adoption of the above-mentioned positive budgetary measures is without the application of the measure of the reduction of personal differences, main and ancillary pensions. It is important that it is not a question of benefits, as we have been accused of by those who had become accustomed to such procedures, but of permanent measures, to build a social state for the first time. This is what we are trying to correct with the 2019 budget. I now come to the subject of research and innovation, an emblematic part of the country's progress and development, which gives supplies and opportunities to the most promising part of the people, to the new generation. We have set two main objectives since the beginning of our term: the recovery of Brain Drain, i.e. the migration of young people with high scientific qualifications and the substitution of it with a balanced mobility and, secondly, the building of the knowledge economy as the new productive model for the development of the country, through the strengthening of innovative entrepreneurship and the use of research results and, thirdly, the smooth transition of the country to the era of the fourth industrial revolution. In this perspective, the regular budget for research in recent years has been consistently following a growth process and has more than doubled from 15 to 19. Especially in the respective Public Investment Programme, in this period, it went from 141 million to 244 million, an increase of 73% from last year to a 43% increase. So we create new attractive jobs for research or academic careers, in scientific enclosures that act as attraction for young researchers and skilled scientists. Already the first ungrateful, but certain indications for the reversal of Brain Drain are visible. In the area of infrastructures with the Public Investment Programme in both the national and the co-financed part, we are making much better use of the funds allocated with a focus on actions with a social dimension. We continue the process of completing the major projects, which we found frozen and resurrected, such as the road axes, the metro of Thessaloniki, the E65 track and we continue with the new metro lines, freight stations, the amputated track, the first part of the E65, which has really created huge problems and laughs for what has happened there. And of course we are implementing the targeting for opening up to the Balkans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the sector’s priority for 2019 is the implementation of impact recovery projects from recent natural disasters, floods and fires. And in order to keep the reports of supposedly a total reduction in the EIP, I should like to point out that in 2019 the allocation of EUR 6 billion of funds is planned, as in 2018. Therefore, there is no provision for lowering the cost of the PPC in relation to 2018, which is still the highest since 2011. We have chosen you, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid the fragmentation of resources, because we will remember with one-digit percentage reductions in major projects, in the supplies, which came and corrected them by No 4412/2016, works, supplies and studies, and to turn the funds available to the social state. Madam President, I now come back to the introduction of my position. We have tabled a budget which reduces the debt by 12.6 percentage points. This is the politically important one and this government, the left and the people, has achieved it. In the four-year period of 2015-2019, we heard millions of them for "cutter", for fourth memorial and for negative choices. The negative choices for the country are over, we only move forward. We now have the possibility of canceling unnecessarily and counterproductive measures, because we are now producing surpluses. The problem of deinvestment, the reduction of GDP, during the austerity period and the memoranda was the mistaken choice of previous governments and lenders, who tried to shrink out of the scratch fly. What the budget predicts was a planned goal of the government, so people know what it will have with us. He knows where expansion policy will go in both the first year and the second year after that. So Mr Hatzidakis will be able to shape the New Democracy programme, having all the data and will not have to attack the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u479	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u480	The budget has a clear stigma. We maintain the budgetary objectives that we have agreed with the institutions. It is a budget return to normality, with strong social justice rules and at the same time maintaining strong fiscal stability, which is the primary prerequisite for economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u481	Mr Fotillas, who is not in the Chamber, has the floor. So we're moving on with Mr. Emmanuelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to ask for this step to be publicly apologised to the 'hot generation', the generation of our children. Our generation, ladies and gentlemen, is accountable in history, as with its behaviors she has trampled into her parents' fight and on the other hand has sedated the future of her children. However, I think it is unfair to blame the stone of the analogy on the right and wrong. Because members of this generation are all of us, of SYRIZA, who, without participating in the party of corruption and of interlocutory, with a voice of voodoos in the wilderness, pointed out in vain the upcoming social catastrophe. The media that dominated during the post-political decades, folding with state-run businessmen and oath politicians, formed the Bermuda triangle, leading the country to the largest social wreck of our modern history. Our responsibility lies in the fact that, despite our reactions, we were unable to prevent the future disaster. A mutual success, the bankruptcy of our country and the throat of the memorials, the memorials that their fatherhood and property claimed, with reasoned enthusiasm, and with an unlikely commotion, was said by the Vice President of the New Democracy Mr.Adonis. The result? Social demolition of a catastrophic natural phenomenon, virtuous indicators of this catastrophe, 25% loss of national income, 27% unemployment with 60% youth unemployment, complete deindustrialisation, contraction of production base in the primary sector, destruction of the middle and medium-sized class, as it was thrown into the community, with endless locks of its businesses. The painfulest? The fleeing of the gifted new scientists abroad, incalculable loss of goodwill in human resources. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2019 budget today. Our government, based on the Prime Minister's announcements in Thessaloniki a few days after August 21st, the day of exit from the Memorandum of Understanding, after obtaining the necessary financial space for the Greek people, made a series of reliefs for society. As an example, the provisions on reductions in pensions have been abolished. Reduction from 1 January 2019 by 33% of insurance contributions for the main pension of professionals, self-employed and farmers. That's about two hundred and fifty thousand people. Arrangements for the ENVY with a reduction of up to 30%, which concerns three million five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. New basis for calculating the monthly contribution for insured persons, lawyers, employees, engineers and doctors with significant reductions. Occupational unemployment within the framework of public employment programmes. Arrangements for the extension of the "School Lunch" programme to edu­cation and high school. Exemption from payment of the trade fee for farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives and other categories of beneficiaries. Single payment of retrospectives to active and retired uniforms, judges, medical, tutorial and artistic staff. Insurance contribution for young people under twenty-five years of age. Recruitment of more than three thousand people for the "Help at Home" programme. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The above measures, along with many more I don't have time to mention, leave our social footprint with relief. The position of the Vice-Presidents, led by the New Democracy MPs, is attempting to highlight an unrealistic situation. The political word of the New Democracy, naked of arguments, in obvious misrepresentation with social reality, frustrates vacant words of political content - 'parology', 'promise' - poisoning with irresponsible complaints against the government the political life of the place, thus implying the loss of the necessary seriousness and responsibility that the Accuracy ought to have. A disgraceful record of the most divisive political speech Mr Mitsotakis has ever called a traitor to the country's Prime Minister. I wonder how far his political stubbornness can reach. The political gravity of the New Democracy comes to rescue the patron of Mr.Mitsotakis, the patron of the patron, Mr. Adonis, the man who, in his delusional speech, led the New Democracy to the fringes of the irresponsible political party or the more appropriate criminal organization. Since the reason for Mr. Adonai, was his project of cynical excellence, what did he finally result in? Did they finally manage to talk to the hostage dialect with the Argo of Ulysses? Finally, a serious one, Mr Vice President. And the lightness of 'is' has its limits. You're done. I'll say a few words about KINAL. I heard Mr. Maniatou say our government is locked in this morning. Incarcerated, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, it is not our government. Enclosed literally is the peculiar government of Korydallos, which is currently made up of seven former first-class members of yours. However, it would be inappropriate and unacceptable to omit to refer to personalities such as those of Sakis Pepongis, Giannis Charalambopoulou, Paraskevi and a large number of politicians in your area who have denouncing the political life of our modern history. That's for restoring reality. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the knowledge and the crisis in society, as well as the instinct of social self-conservation, lead us to believe that in the coming parliamentary elections the social majority will once again trust us in depositing the state's budgets for another four years. You can wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u483	Mr. Giannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u484	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the fourth - and fortunately last - the SYRIZA - budget - ANEL. Closes within 2019 a four-year cycle full of delusion, hallucinations, virtual prosperity, irresponsibility, partyism and division. It is clear that you are a government on the way, but even at the very last moment you commit to this budget to the next governments. And, of course, I mean not only the imposition of lasting austerity by 2060, nor, of course, the assignment of public property, even of archaeological sites, to the excess for two hundred years. I mean the fact that you are privileged not only for the whole of 2019, but also for 2020, even for 2022. With this budget you commit the next New Democracy government with a billion additional taxes for 2019. You proceed without a coherent plan, as in 2015, with the well-known results. You have no realistic contact with the reality of the Greeks. The Greek people know that from the eight memorial years, half, four are yours. That's true. He also knows that these have been years with unbearable and unsocial economic measures - and not just - measures. For the last four years, all you have been doing is managing the lives of Greeks and Greeks. Only the clippers in the sleeves are missing. You will remain in history as a government of taxes, confiscations and auctions on finances, because, unfortunately, for national issues you will unfortunately remain for other more serious reasons, such as scaffolding and the Northcontinental. You are now trying to convince the citizens that Greece has returned to normality. But the reality disguises you every day and the numbers and the evidence gives you the painful answer. Is it normal that over two and a half million citizens cannot pay tax for up to five hundred euros? Is it only a month, between August and September 2018, citizens with arrears of debts increased by five hundred thousand, reaching a total of four million three hundred twelve thousand? Is it normal that a million forty-eight thousand citizens have been seized by accounts and asset commitments and another million eight hundred thousand have the same treatment in the coming months? Is it normal when there are a thousand auctions, even first home, every week? There will be forty thousand in 2019 and the first evictions have already begun. Is it normal that every day companies close or migrate and 10% of healthy businesses are going to be problematic in the coming months? Money continues to leave the country and smart money is not approaching or meeting the needs of banks, whose shares since the beginning of the year have fallen by 70%. You have promised 30% horizontal reduction of ENVY and you are now celebrating the mid-weight reduction of 10% and only for small assets, when it is known that we will all pay a greater HNVY because of the upcoming increase in objective values. You're cutting 100,000 out of the school lunch program, of what you planned. Forget the 100,000 000 investments in energy, the 100,000 000 for investments in the primary sector, for our farmers, farmers, fishermen, as well as the 100,000, 000, which would be provided through the development law, which would restore the labour market. I will not go into the treatment of pensions, because the truth of what the Greek people now know is the retired people themselves. You took the free trade tax from the previous government to 26%, took him to 29% and now celebrate that he was down by 1% by taking him to 28%. You are reducing by 200,000, 000, the rental subsidy programme, affecting the weak populace layers by giving them a small housing allowance for just one time, while the subsidy is lasting. The insured loses 240,000,000 euros from subsidisation to prescription medicines. 140,000,000 are lost since the cancellation of the creation of new pre-school education units. And all this happens when public debt is growing, instead of falling. Only in one year has it increased by EUR 28.1 billion. From the 328.7 billion at the end of 2017, he climbed to 356.8 billion. The country's economic situation is reminiscent of the demoral sanctuary of Tsakalotus. So don't celebrate. Realize that from 2015 until today, both your ideological and moral has been defeated. Your four-year term was uniquely painful for the country and the citizens. Eventually he was right to say that lefters love so much the poor that they make sure that they are made more of them. They are, for all of them, responsibilities, vigilance, self-consciousness, substantial, efficient action, pragmatism and logic for all. There is no longer time for other lies, wishfulness, good intentions and demagogy. The New Democracy Government, which comes seriously and responsibly, is the last hope that the country and society will stand up. I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. Mr. Rizzos has the floor and Mr. Tasos follows, so we close the sixth cycle and enter the seventh. Here you go, Mr. Rizzo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have come today to discuss the 2019 state budget, the fourth budget of SYRIZA. Let's get some details of today. Employment sector. We are talking here today about unemployment in the third quarter of 2018, as ELSTAT announced, at 18.3%, nine points below the unemployment rate we received. Another qualitative element of this decline in unemployment is that 70% of the three hundred thousand new jobs created over this three-year period are full-time. You want to convince us that everything is twelve months old and that it is programmes of mutual benefit and issues in such a way that they cover unemployment, but that is not the case, colleagues. I wish it was better. We are talking about foreign direct investment this four-year period in the country amounted to EUR 3.1 billion from 1.4 billion in the previous four years. We are having this debate when there is an increase in funding, particularly in the field of research, either through the ordinary budget or through the Public Investment Programme. Today we are at the zi000,000. Why do we report all this? Because there was a lot of talk about Brain drain. In other words, research, innovation is also served by the thousands of new posts that we have managed to give members of the IMPs of our country, with the hundreds of new posts in our research centres and, of course, with the new programmes, such as "Research, I Create, Innovation", which works on research programs in cooperation and with businesses. We see this in my area in Thrace. Democratio has already made proposals for new schools, new departments and is certainly better off than it was four years ago. Overall, the education budget has increases, has specific figures, but also realities to present, such as the timely placement of middle-education teachers. Unfortunately, we have still not been able to cover the substitutes and these poor working conditions continue to exist. The best and best thing is to be able to get through to permanent, permanent employment. We already have four and a half thousand people who are going to special education, a sector that has a thousand problems and a lot of shortcomings and we slowly see it standing on its feet. We need to talk about the Home Office. The money that Evros Regional Unit has seen over the past two years has been too much for infrastructure, for debt repayment and for programming. And all this in two years' time, because decentralisation and regional administration are a priority of the government. To say about school meals or kindergartens, which we have previously heard we have lost and do not exist. There were no places in kindergarten stations, because some mayors did not use some programs to create new kindergartens. So, with good planning, we believe that we will meet all the needs of our fellow citizens. A colleague of mine also referred to the demographic problem. The demographic problem is not only solved by benefits, it is solved with continuous social protection and networks from all sides, such as home care, childcare and the possibility for people to live a better life. Child poverty has declined considerably, but not to an extent that, at least myself, I am satisfied. The same applies to social income of solidarity. The area moves forward and goes on to combined transport, as it is in the port of Alexandroupolis and using the Egnatia and the railway. We're talking about new malls. After the last one in Triasio, we have entered the same flow and we are one of the freight centres located in northern Greece. Of course, we can mention here the energy nodes of natural gas, such as the TAP pipeline, the IGB pipeline and the new TURKISH STREAM that will probably pass. All this certainly has a positive impact on the level of jobs in our region as well. Some people wanted to make fun of the transport equivalent. I would suggest, however, that they also take a walk from our area, from the island of Samothrace. They should ask the people of Samothraki whether they are served by applying the transport equivalent or not, especially if it is extended to fuel. In health we have the 100 new local health units founded in some cities in Greece. Let's compare what was going on with the IKA's polymedics, which they had licensed with the previous government. Two and a half to three thousand colleagues were fired overnight. And it is not just that colleagues were fired. It is also the fact that in everyday life our fellow citizens did not find a hook, they could not resort to their doctor. This can be done from now on with their family doctor. And we say that because we certainly have a lot to do. Some of these were also mentioned by Mr Barriots from KINAL, for the shortcomings and for the non-fast needs coverage. Here we are to do this, too. And we'll do it, because we've got proper programming, we've moralized the system, we've shielded it slowly, even in the scandalous deformations that slowly come out into the light and make us all sad. We are not happy when we are in front of scandals, especially in the health field, such as the many that we have seen lately. We're talking about a lot of things. I would just like to say one last one, for the public spaces attributed to local government and citizens, such as the Sufli Peace Court, the Orestiada camp, the area of the old hospital in Alexandroupolis, which was first signed by the Ministry of Rural Development. All of this shows our care and concern for both the region and the focus. For all this, I invite you to vote on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u487	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will enter the next cycle. The first two will definitely speak. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Madam President. If there is one area in our country where the barbaricity of the capitalist system - which you are, of course, serving with faith - is seen throughout all its tension - in the field of internal and foreign policy, are the islands of the eastern Aegean. At the same intensity, but in the opposite direction, this region highlights the need, the possibility of implementing and the supremacy of socialism - communism. It shows the supremacy of the centrally-designed economy, which exploits every achievement of science and technology, with the aim of meeting social needs and popular prosperity, against unregulated capitalist growth, which requires cheap labour and where all - and education, health, insurance, welfare, the environment and civil protection - are goods for sale for profit. Capitalist exploitation in the context of imperialist peace leads peoples to impoverishment and to avoid migration. It also shows the value of peace, friendship, cooperation and solidarity between the peoples against the interventions and imperialist competitions and wars, which, in order to maximize profits, drown in the blood of peoples and lead them to refugee. In particular, it is known that with effect from 1 January 2019, the reduced 30% VAT rates imposed after many matches, the top priority of the JRC, as a minimum compensatory measure to the increased cost of transport and production on the islands and generally to the consequences that make life difficult for the islands, are abolished in all five remaining islands - Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Lero - which have been linked to the refugee. Factors from 9% and 17% increase to 13% and 24% respectively. The request of the inhabitants of all Aegean islands is that the reduced VAT should be decoupled from the refugee and maintained throughout the Aegean islands. Instead, the Government has brought the transport equivalent which, on the one hand, cannot compensate for reduced VAT and, on the other, is, on the other, a new form of shipowners' subsidy, since what they have received will always receive and can, on the basis of a profit, at any time increase the price of tickets and freight fares above the amount of the refund, but also determine the frequency and duration of the caravans' journeys. The inhabitants of the islands are asking for a drastic reduction in the price of tickets and fares of vehicles by 50% on the coastline and for free movement for the unemployed and their families, soldiers, MEDIAs etc. However, this is not the case, nor do you even think about asking for it much more to be imposed on shipowners. This is because Article 107 of the Constitution, which as an eye daughter you are safeguarding from any revision - all, nationalists and cosmopolitans, progressive and right-wing, of course, the Nazi criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn - provides privileges leading to the legal and institutionalized tax exemption of shipowners. Shipowners have some sixty tax exemptions, such as in oil that pays 45 cent per litre, while farmers almost 1,50 euros. Thus, on an annual basis, shipowners, who on average earn more than EUR 10 billion, only pay around EUR 15 million, i.e. 0,15% or on a daily basis less than EUR 10 for each ship. If their taxation was at 45% as requested by the JRC, they would pay a tax of about EUR 5 billion a year. On the other hand, seafarers pay a tax of EUR 60 million a year in conditions of black, uninsured and low-paid labour, ranging from 80% to 95% in four thousand some seven hundred fifty Greek vessels. This is obviously for you the model of healthy businessman and fair growth. What are the social benefits that the world of work and wealth production enjoys? In all hospitals and health centres on the islands of the East Aegean, the underfunding, serious shortages in medical, nursing, paramedical, technical and administrative staff, the insecurity of workers, who offer work in all forms of flexible working relationships, shortcomings in kinds of hospital, troubled building facilities lead workers to impoverishment and extinction and patients not to be served and troubled. For example, at Mytilini Hospital there are shortcomings in a nephrologer, psychiatrist, gynecologist and pediatrician. Because of a lack of specialist doctor, the MRI has still not worked. No bone density measurements are made in women because the damage to the diagnostic medium has not been corrected. In some sections, such as ophthalmology, the insured book an appointment after three months, in Samos after a year. As far as the much-advertised TOMY, local health units are concerned, only nineteen family doctors have registered for the island, an island of eighty-sixteen thousand inhabitants, and in only two areas: Mytilini and Plumari. Of these, the six are contracted individuals, who are rewarded - if you don't know, to tell you - with 80 minutes per patient, not a single euro. Here's how you dismantle public health. The situation is the same in schools. Again, for example, in Lesvos schools, there are many problems in building infrastructure, such as the 3rd GEL and the 4th GEL, and the 3rd Mytilini High School, the Plomery, the Music School and the 5th Mytilini High School, at the school in Vrisa. There are shortcomings in teachers at PPA, GEL Pamfalion, GEL and Mandamanou High School who are blocking the uninterrupted operation of schools. On civil protection issues, I only mention what the Vice-President of the Kylis Army said at the last meeting of the Civil Protection Coordinating Body. 'The service of civil protection remains naked of human resources and machinery'. How will the 2019 budget address these issues? Hodja's tactic. He loads with tons he burdens the people, and then he gets a pound. Both in the field of health education and welfare, and in the area of civil protection, there are cuts or some psychopathy increases which in no way meet the real needs of workers and people. The external aspects continue the imperialist interventions for which the US, NATO and the European Union as a signatory in the region has a great responsibility. Therefore, the waves of refugees and immigrants continue, and the imperialists are the victims. They actually blink the cliff according to the needs of capital for cheap labour, which is what their imperialist war has kicked out of their countries to escape death or their imperialist peace to escape imperialism. The refugee issue has taken explosive proportions on the islands of the eastern Aegean, particularly as regards the miserable living conditions of refugees and migrants caught and stacked in Moria's hotspots in Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Kos and Leros as a result of the unacceptable agreement of the European Union - Government "SYRIZANEL" and Turkey. At the same time, the people of the islands are experiencing the consequences of the caging of refugees and immigrants, and this situation gives rise to the Nazi criminal organization of the Golden Dawn to spill its racist poison. Immediate measures must be taken to protect refugees and migrants from winter weather while they remain in the miserable conditions of reception and identification centres. The double caging of refugees and immigrants in our islands and in our country must be stopped without delay in contrast to the European Union - the 'SYRIZANEL' government and Turkey leading to it. In the first phase, they must be transferred to mainland Greece with priority to vulnerable groups, children, women, elderly people, young people, and the islands must close down. In the mainland and in human living conditions, the procedures for identifying, issuing different certificates, asylum applications and so on should be completed within a short time and should be left for their countries of destination. Those on the islands must be fully compensated for by the development of the refugee phenomenon and the Dublin I, II and III regulations and the European Union's statutes should be abolished. Conclusion: Capitalism especially at its highest stage, the imperialist, all it has to offer to our people, but also to every nation is exploitation, poverty, wars and refugee. There is a need for a strong JRC and the creation of a social alliance that will in the first phase put an obstacle to anti-grass policy and in the second with the KIC forefront will take the power to become the people housekeeper and boss in his place, friend and associate of all other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u489	Thank you. So we're entering the seventh cycle. Anyway, we'll see how long we can last. I call to the Step Mr. Tibetan. Mr. Katsafandos will definitely speak. And I will make an effort for Mr. Athanasios and Mr. Toska. Then he won't talk to anyone else. We'll try for them, too, but it's not certain. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we approach this budget strictly technically, overlooking for the time any political dimensions, one is clear: this is the first budget without reductions in any sector, it is an expansionary budget, as Minister Juliarakis said, which is undeniable. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA will be the last to triumph, and that is because we will not be satisfied with the last citizen of the country to feel safe. We will not be satisfied until dignity becomes given to every household. However, in the face of the continuing catastrophe of Officer Opposition, in the face of an extreme zero reason, it is impossible to point to some things. In fact, New Democracy's unreliability knows no limits. It is known to everyone its attitude to a number of issues and the recipe is simple. Don't we get the arguments for the economy? We put it in order and security. Aren't pensions cut after months of disaster? We put it in the extreme right rhetoric and nationalism. Aren't the make news of our friendly media? It's all right, and there's got to be something left of the mud. The opposition invests in oblivion, wants to forget what the country had come under its rule, forget the fainting students in schools, forget the situation in hospitals, forget the bars in Parliament, forget the hatreds, the C4I, the "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS", the 85 million hole in CEDEFOP and illegal appointments, the more than 500 million euros of credit and anchorages of their parties. We are told that the government is the longest-lived Memorandum Government in an attempt to set off and create confusion. It is clear, however, that the third memorandum was the last, which is fully reflected in the budget that we are discussing today. They also avoid that the policies of the memorials are their own real program as opposed to the government that is trying to heal the wounds they have left. Most importantly, this government has closed not only the third memorandum costing 9.5 billion m, but also the 65 billion other first two Memorandums that put to the Greek people without negotiation and cheering on Gerun and the IMF. I will concentrate particularly on the issues of education. The Ministry of Education's budget has been continuously increasing since 2015. This year, an amount of 5.5 billion is foreseen, showing aid of 4.2% compared with 2018. A special burden has been placed on the government over the years in special treatment, which currently operates four hundred forty-seven special treatment units, of which forty have been founded over the last three years. In the current school year, recruitment for special education and training tends to exceed sixteen thousand teachers, as almost all of the schools' demands for parallel education were met. The recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers and skilled staff in 2019 in posts now covered by fixed-term contracts is expected to give the special treatment the importance it deserves. For the Ministry of Education and the Government as a whole, the support and upgrading of special education and training is a priority with a clear social character. Our permanent concern is that all disabled or disabled students live in the light of the world with dignity and social integration. Significant steps were taken in the professional education that the strategic plan for its upgrading has been implemented since 2016, while the "Metaly Year - Class of Mathematics" was successfully established and operated with full working and insurance rights for participants. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the years of the crisis have clearly highlighted the class differences between government education policy and the positions of counter-population. I quote: Control by the Ministry of Education of colleges is passed by bill and work law is guaranteed for private teachers. The New Democracy is voting against, i.e. voting against the immunity of schoolchildren and the redundancies of teachers. Support measures for vocational education and economic rights, 'no' says the New Democracy and is interlinked with private IEK. Higher education is reorganised and strengthened. Private universities and the abolition of Article 16, says the New Democracy. Four and a half thousand appointments of teachers in special education and ten thousand appointments in 2020 and 2021, says New Democracy. One to five rosphetological recruitments and he forgets that teachers have been appointed for exactly eleven years. One thing is certain: Students, students, parents, teachers see and judge from one hand its fanatical addicts on payment of excellence to them and on the other hand those who are struggling for a strong public education of equal opportunities for all in education and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that, by listening to both the rapporteurs and the Members of the New Democracy, Tampacier has not said anything. Abundant characterizations, many distortions, but proposals and nothing. Perhaps because they realise that it is a memorial budget with a development perspective or because they want to hide their own budget, a clean fourth memorandum which says: insurance Pinochet, reduction of pensions, one to five in recruitment, redundancies of contractors, not collective agreements and a number of other spectacular works. All this isn't hiding the government program, and maybe that's the dangerous one. The same dangerous, however, is that the New Democracy is blocking the Bucharest national line for Macedonian and adopts a extreme right-wing nationalism. The same danger is that it divides the Greek people into patriots and traitors and throws the poison of splitting into souls of teenage students. The same danger is that it adopts the policy of closed borders and clearing operations for refugees. The same dangerous thing is the doctrine of "law and order" that will launder murders of the type Zak Kostopoulos. The same is dangerous, too, as it characterizes without shame any scandal revelation as a construction. This mixture of neoliberal and right-wing agenda is making you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, definitively past and instead, it even produces new data in this House for the completion of the four-year period and leads and opens the way for a new four-year period in SYRIZA, like the trunk of a new progressive governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u491	The last speaker is Mr Katsafandos. I don't think we can go on. No one respects the time. It can't be done. You will speak tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as much as trying to hide the reality, you are the government that broke every record of obedience to the memorials, which charged Greek citizens within four years to twenty-nine taxes. You are the government, which celebrates that it saved the new pension cuts only for old insured persons, which it itself had agreed. On the other hand, you are not telling us that you are abolishing the CSCE for hundreds of thousands of pensioners. You came along with indignant and dulls, and you baptized fraud as "self". And after four years, you go away and lose the supposed moral advantage that you had around the scandals, which are now drowning you. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as much as you can trust and do, you know the truth and everyone is aware of the great anxiety you have, which is not if you win the elections. This and you have deleted it yourself. The only thing you care about is how you limit your upcoming crash. However, as long as you try to disguise Santas because of the days creating a climate of benefits, you should know that after the Lights the go away and the fairy tales stop. The budget we are debating today, as you can see, will not end at the end of 2019, but much earlier. Because the New Democracy, as a government, will be invited to adapt it to the real needs of the economy and society. So this is not a year's budget, but at least a half-month's. But let us see what you say to him, even to the budget under way. According to the detailed figures in the tables, VAT is expected to collect around EUR 17,2 billion in 2019, compared to 2018 by EUR 141 million. More revenues would also be collected from excise duties on cigarettes, beverages and fuels, as the forecast for 2019 is 7.38 billion, compared with 7.29 billion in 2018. Net tax revenues in 2019 amount to 46,423 billion, from 45,418 billion, which is estimated to rise this year. In other words, it is an increase of over EUR 1 billion. ENVIRON may be reduced for small owners, but since January 1st, the new objective values will enter into force. This means that 37% of the areas, namely three thousand seven hundred ninety-two areas where zone prices are increasing, tax and not just the cost of any transfer, such as markets, parental benefits and donations. Even with the cuts you're bringing to the budget, you're mocking the people again. You reduce insurance contributions only to freelance professionals and not to all employees, since you in 2016 had increased them. You are gradually reducing corporate taxation, since in 2015 you increased them. You are even celebrating the fact that in 2021 taxes on businesses will be formed where you receive them in 2014. Prolong for a while the special arrangements for reduced VAT rates and, for very few remote islands, after you again in 2015 abolish it all. The so-called holistic development plan refers to instruments that the Public Investment Programme will be the main development instrument. Therefore, the Public Investment Programme has again ridiculed you by EUR 2.5 billion over the last two and a half years. For 2019, at best, the Public Investment Program will be bored at least 550 million to finance any haircut countermeasures. The Financial Council - not the Dedicated Opposition, Minister - points out that this practice raises concerns about the development impact of how the financial area is made available. How, then, can you believe that you believe and are struggling for how growth will come? And these, while the country needs an investment panoramic public and private investment. Let me remind you that the Deputy Minister was committing - this verb used, 'binding' - that by 20 August the government's outstanding debts would be zero. And today, four months later, he's still at 2.5 billion here. All you care about is creating an inappropriate, bloody surplus, which is the result of the overtaxation of households and businesses and which in practice deprives the important and absolutely necessary liquidity for the economy. The consequence of all this is the country losing valuable time and experiencing a stagnation situation, as the conditions in which households and businesses operate are in high uncertainty. After all, this, ladies and gentlemen, bear witness to your achievements. Four million three thousand citizens have a tax debt of EUR 103 billion, with the increases of EUR 182 billion, that is, as much as the country's GDP. During your governance period, tax debts increased by 45%, Minister. The irrational overtaxation imposed on Greece as a tax champion in the period 2015-2016, according to the OECD. And, of course, the country keeps plummeting about what it has to do in its positions both with competitiveness and transparency. An indicative example, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, of the backward logic with which you are driving the country, is that today in the era of the digital economy Greece has the twenty-seventh place of the twenty-seventh countries of the European Union in the digital economy and society index. However, as you can see, Greece needs a project that will liberate the productive forces of the economy, produce wealth and improve the quality of life of all citizens, which will promote productivity, competitiveness, creativity, extroversion and serve the harmonious balance between economic efficiency and social justice. This is therefore the plan of the next government, the New Democracy plan, which is based on a brave reduction in taxation on households and businesses, the implementation of pro-investment reforms, the strengthening of liquidity and effective and targeted social policy. But let me briefly refer to another very important fact which I consider to be the loss of the geostrategic and geopolitical power of the country, on the basis of the statements made by Mr Zaev, who daily causes safe, but also what Albanian Prime Minister Rama is doing at the expense of the Greek minority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Against all this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what we see is the Greek Government, you, move on to unacceptable retreats, divide the Greeks alone and even characterize anyone who disagrees with you as 'right'. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that the Secretary of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsoubas, who disagrees with the Prespecies Agreement, far-right is Mickis Theodorakis, your own Mickey, far-right is Mr Manolis Glezos, who sat here with you on these benches, who disagree with the Prespecies Agreement or the far-right are the students who protest against the scepticism? Well, let's get this straight. The concepts of the security of the citizen, of the country and of the national conscience, or of the extreme right, do not give them any guilt, nor do we support them. You keep all these - within introductory - progressive, as you think them, the 'Rubics', the anarchists, all kinds of balakies, who only make them break and burn Athens undisturbed. But stop, ladies and gentlemen of the government, insult the Greeks' national and religious feelings, and realise that national issues require seriousness, planning, harmony and understanding. With these thoughts, Madam President, I am voting against the government's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u493	At this point we are necessarily stopping. It is not just me who has been presiding, it is also the workers who have been here since the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-13-S1-commons.u494	With the consent of the House at a time of 0.20', the sitting for Friday, December 14, 2018, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2019".
