ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 2-5-2018, the minutes of its PH's meeting, Wednesday 2 May 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/236/EU on payment services and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Friday, May 4, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1569-274-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary of New Democracy Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning the Hellenic Space Organisation. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The establishment of a contributory fee for large hydroelectric power stations". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1570-274-2018 topical question of the New Democracy MP Christou Boukorous to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The burning of alternative fuels by the cement industry "HRAKLIS SET" in Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1556-26-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Resignation". COMP. REP. EC 1981 Krimizis, President of the Hellenic Space Organisation (ELDO)". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, dated 1574-27-2018, on the subject: "Direct need to rebuild the platform of the Port of Troika". 4. The 1547/24-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Construction within areas of jurisdiction of port administration and exploitation". 5. The 1540/23-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters". 6. The 1522/18-4-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Manufacturing within and outside the jurisdiction of the administration and exploitation of ports". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1544-24-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos, New Democracy, Haralambos Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, on "to take measures to dismantle the islands of the Eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos by transferring immigrants to mainland Greece". 8. Under No 1528/19-4-2018, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The urgent need to take administrative and legislative measures to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the S.H.I.". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2696/17-1-2018 asked by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “The rest of the “Molyviat Fund””. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1983/11-12-2017 by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on the subject of "What procedure was the award of the “GENERALS of the COSMOs” to care for refugees in the hospitality centre in BIPE Drama?". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on the one single question, I would like to inform the House that Mr Constantine Vlassis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 23-5-2018 to 5-6-2018. In addition, Mr Nikolaos Dendias asks for a short-day absence abroad from 28-5-2018 to 31-5-2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I would also like to make the following point known to the House: After consulting the Minister and the MP, the second question under No 1567-274-2018 will not be discussed at the beginning of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. South Mitaraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Project and financing of the Chios airport’. Also, due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas, because he will be at the Development Conference, the second will not be discussed under the number 1568-27-4-2018 topical question of the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country ahead of the summer season". The same is true of the sixth under number 1531/20-4-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP II, Efstathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by people of the underworld and fork rebels". Due to the impediment of the Minister of Interior Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, because he will be at the Development Conference, we will not discuss the first with number 1577/30-4-2018 the first question of the Athens Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Xydakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Reset initial regulation n. 3852/2010.’ Due to a blockade for the same reason of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Lydias Konordos will not discuss the fifth with number 1580/304-2018, the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP Heraklion Emmanouil Synthakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "needs to guard museums and archaeological sites". Due to the impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Nikolaos Kotzias, due to a workload, the third will not be discussed with number 1555/25/2018, the second time question from the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Kokoutsis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: ‘Low loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace’. Due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, due to his participation in a conference in Larissa, the second question under number 4699-26-3-2018 will not be discussed in the circle of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jellés to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Urban farming in an emergency”. Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development Mr.Kosakolis Kokalis, the third question under number 1573-27-2018 will not be discussed at the time of the first question by the Deputy Serres of the Democratic Assortment of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jelegis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Available quantities of potatoes in the communities of Mountos and Upper Brode Prefectures of Serres". The same applies to the fourth under number 1551/24-2018 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". Also, the same applies to the fifth under number 1529/19-4-2018 a topical question by MP Pelles of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "They continue to remain unpaid. Finally, the same applies to the third with number 2464/10-1-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platy River for the enhancement of Fantaine". Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Ioannis Tsironis will not discuss the first question under number 1578/304-2018 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Cardiff of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysopoulos Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "upgrade of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa". Due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Panagiotis Skourletis, the fourth question will not be discussed under No 1554-24-2018. First question of the Deputy Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Christos Hadjisavvas, to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. Due to a blockade by Deputy Minister of Interior Mr Nikolaos Toskas, the seventh under number 1149/26-2-2018 will not be discussed in the context of the second-cycle question by MP 2 Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Knowledge from the para-state website was the unprecedented attack on the A.T. Cesarean’ and the eighth under number 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People’s League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on “Questions about the case of an agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos”. There is a letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council about the reasons you have heard. We enter the debate of the one single question, the first with number 4792/28-3-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the MP of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “In hostage the workers of the “Help at Home” programme. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Theanos Fotio. Mrs Christophilopoulou, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I really feel privileged after all these cancellations that you just read. Madam Minister, this question was written and it was indeed the whole parliamentary group of the Democratic Alliance. I took the initiative to invite you and to come here to discuss the oral question. Of course it was also addressed to your fellow Member, Mr Skourletis, but you are here. It is very important, then, that we discuss a programme, the 'Help at Home' programme. As you'll see the question, beyond the title, gets all aspects of the program. It is a project that began in 1997 pilots and was indeed permanently permanent in the hearts of people first, in the municipalities and finally embraced the entire Greek society. Today, my evidence says that we have about a thousand structures across the country. That is where three thousand five hundred workers are serving. And, of course, this programme - as I have said - serves and is essentially a care for those our elderly citizens or our fellow citizens with disabilities, who need home care. You know - and we all know - the successive extensions that the programme has taken over both the previous governments and the current government. We asked you three things there, Minister, and I will come back so I won't get far: The first was the programming agreement and funding. Afterwards, we saw your ministerial decision, a few days after our question had been tabled. I expect you to tell me about the follow-up. The second thing we were asking for is also very important. Mr President, I would also like your own assistance from the Bureau, because we need to find a solution. And this solution must come about with some kind of consensus, because it concerns the possibility of staying in their positions, in standing and constant needs, for workers in "Help at Home". And that means, not bypassing the Constitution and its review in 2001, but by finding a way. There are ways. I know that to a previous question the Minister has answered that there is a preparation. My question today is at what stage we are at, and if there can be wider consensus with the parliamentary groups and how such an initiative could go ahead. Finally, Minister, we have two points to make in the question, namely that workers really are asking for them. They're not just asking for their own simulation. They have embraced the program themselves for so many years and many of them, you know, in local societies have been bound both to the homes and to the people who go and feel that they are doing an important job. It is therefore very important that equipment and how we can help local government and help with equipment and cars. Of course, it is important that the programme should be further staffed, because it is not enough. Some of them - because it has been so many years since 1997 - have finished their working life and you realize that structures are empty. I say again that it is a programme that has started, as it has started, but now we all have a responsibility to continue in the best way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u4	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Christophilopoulou, I am happy to respond today and much more in the way you have now been placed. For of course, I would say that the title of the question at the time, which reads: “To a hostage, the workers of the “Help at Home” programme, is a bit unfair to you all:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u6	You understand how we mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u7	Yes, but to say, hostage of sixteen years, in fact, three years is charged by SYRIZA. And from these thirteen years, half of them were out of memorial. But we both know very well - and I commend everything you have said - that the importance of this provision to the elderly has indeed been proved, precisely because - you remember the debate we have had these days on the law of acceptance and adoption - we all aim to decouple. The first act of dehydration is to stay the elderly at home. Society must in every way help them to stay at home, otherwise they will enter the foundations. And we know that this is not something we want, neither your party nor mine, but I believe all the political forces in this House are. So you're asking us what we're doing. Indeed, you know very well that yes, they are paid. You remember there was a delay in the publication of the ministerial decision. Therefore, the beneficiaries are normally paid from 1-1-2018. And, of course, because our government intends to resolve this issue with the consent of all the parties, but also with the cooperation of the CEDEFOP, we have clearly said that this committee of legislation, to which you referred, also includes the CEDEFOP. They are the three ministries - labour, internal and administrative reform - and the CEDEFOP. I'll tell you where we are. So, with regard to workers' pay, I think there is no question anymore. They're all normally paid. If you enter ETA's "GENERAL" you will see the doses given and where they are given exactly. So this part of your question I think has been covered. As regards the second part, we, as you know, Mrs Christophilopoulou, a month ago - Great Wednesday, 4 April, if I remember correctly - held a meeting at the Ministry of Interior with all the structures "Help at Home" from all over Greece, with the three Ministries and the CSCE together. And we decided on the steps we are taking now. We had predicted exactly a two-year extension of the programme so that there would be no coma between 2018 and 2019. So, 60 million anyway of the 2018 budget is now being implemented and it is already provided for the extension of the law adopted in 2017. I can tell you the law. You got him, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u8	I got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u9	He's known.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u10	It's Mr. 4483. Therefore, the extension is for two years, so that there is precisely this comfort within this time period that all workers can be migrated to a situation which is precisely recognized, in terms and rules, so that they do not have problems afterward. Because you know very well that the Council of State comes back and we do not want to see work upset, but conditions and rules that are safe. That's what I can tell you right now. But you'll keep an eye on it. And we'll almost have a development every month where this is going. In your third question on infrastructure, staffing, etc., I will tell you that you are absolutely right. We're in cooperation, but it's not a matter of our Ministry as much as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior. We hope that we will also be able to have some announcements about the automobile fleet, above all, which has of course been aged. With regard to new recruitment, staffing, etc., I think it is all the matter that I have explained to you with the Legislative Committee. But I'll tell you what we're doing in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u11	Before I give the floor to Mrs Christophilopoulou - experienced by both parties, especially Mrs Christophilopoulou, on these issues - I would like to say that you take an initiative, Minister, and call to your ministry a representative from each party to discuss the problem raised by Mrs Christophilopoulou in relation to the Constitution. There's typically that problem, isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u12	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u13	To conclude - I believe - all the parties to a proposal which goes to the committee of inquiry and even to the limits of constitutional legitimacy to resolve it, at least for the servants, because there is no possibility and the luxury of leaving us not even ten, as I understand it from your position. I call it an idea. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor with a relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your location, too. Minister, I, too, would like to give up on you and the government, because it is also a matter of Mr Skourletis, the Ministry of the Interior, as you have said. There must be consultation, because I am very afraid that solutions to other areas of local government are likely - and because of delay - to create problems. I hope they won't be created. I refer to the issue of cleanliness. I hope there are no problems. But there are delays there too. The government went to solve a problem. We need to see and, if you want, learn from any mistakes and omissions. In any case, we have a bill which comes shortly in plenary on assumption - adoption. If we do not get to this - which is very likely not to have time to do - then the government's legislative initiative for local government comes, as I understand it. What we're thinking about that we're going to call it another hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u15	I think it's better to get into that bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u16	That's right. So if we do not make it as an article, it could be incorporated as an amendment to this bill. If he enters the committee, it can be incorporated, because at the moment the bill on changes to local government is in consultation. It is very important that we are ready to propose a solution which, as you described, will be constitutional to the limits. But it is timely and timely to send the request to the AACC so that we do not have any blockages, that we do not find ourselves in an air void again, that is to say, the programme does not risk operating with the elderly at home and, of course, the workers are back in the air. I want, before I finish, to highlight what Mrs Fotou said. Madam Minister, indeed the issue of decoupling is very important and societal. They should listen to powers that are mainly of interest to the budget. It is important for the budget, but it is not a priority. It is important to see how dematerialisation - which is so important socially - is also important for saving resources. It is much more costly, first of all, for the souls of people and society and then for the public budgets that are called upon to meet many needs of social protection, security, education and health. So it's very important. We as a party, from the CAP, even before the 'Help at Home' programme, had invested in it. I remember very well then the Danes, which is a state which has very significant decentralisation in the municipalities. In general, the Scandinavians have promoted the institution very much. The president, who was mayor, knows very well how decentralised he was. They actually admired initiatives for external care, either through the MAH that the doctor and the social worker go and care for the elderly who have a good time and can help themselves or later with the "Help at Home". I would like to stress the fact that the issue of decoupling is topical. Our country has good examples. It is very important to invest in these. I expect to hear the rest that Mrs Fotou promised she'll tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor. I don't give up time, two of us are all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I hope we don't record that we're concluding triangular relationships today...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u19	It's okay. Let it be recorded, Mrs Fotio, when it is intended to be of benefit to society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u20	I can only go on in the same direction as you both have said. I will explain to you what we have done so far, in addition to what we have said and I think you both know it. One great agony, on the basis of this dismantling, and those of great importance that have been mentioned about what it means to be a man in his home and not to enter an institution of chronicly suffering or elderly - both of them - were three structures which concern elderly people and which are innovative and of different types. I am, of course, talking about the CAP. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I must tell you that I am one of the founders of the Third Age Network throughout Europe and as a university. We designed, in cooperation with Finland and Denmark - as you mentioned - for many years now, when I was still a university, a model KAPI centre in the Municipality of Ioannina, but also a short-lived living centre for those who create problems. The carpet's there. So I have to say it straight away, I have been put before: the top institution of the PASOK is the CAP - and I do not make any coexistence agreements again, but I believe it deeply - and it is indeed innovative throughout Europe. I've experienced what I'm telling you. I've been researching the CAP. Therefore, as you can see, my concern since the first time I went to this position has been how I can coordinate three structures and re-activate them under new conditions. So the KAPH is another thing, it belongs exclusively to the municipalities. Right? It is a European programme which we have certainly managed to extend for another three years, but we need to see what we are going to do with this programme. We have taken the OK from the European Union. for another three years. And it is the 'Help at home'. We therefore thought that we should make up under the community centres a hundred and fifty OFELI centres, full-time care centres for the elderly. It's a very nice word of OFELI. These are the initials. We have managed, after consultation, and are now ready in twelve regions to establish the 50 OFILI centres. This means that in the major municipalities we will have two employees, in addition, independently, in the community centre. In the small towns, we'll have a worker. What are they gonna do? This is a modernisation of their administrative supervision. I know I'm tired of this House with this type of news updates. I am referring to an information system whereby the elderly will go to the community centre, to the OFILI centre - since they are directly connected, united and run by all municipalities slowly - will be informed of the CFP services - which we want to strengthen and do again what they were - and they will know about 'Help at home' and say how much of them they want to participate. Automatically, the state will know the exact numbers. He'll know every day, Mr. Christophilopoulou, which workers worked with this old man every day. That's where we are right now. We're making this information system, we've been discussing it for a year now with the workers of 'Help at home', they know it. They know that this does not bring about any change in their employment relationship. It's clear what I'm saying. But it coordinates three structures which need to be coordinated. The state must know every day how many elderly have benefited from these three structures and how many employees have been charged with them. That is what we are doing right now and in 2018 we will be able to set up these OFELI centres in which we will get people under the SAPA process, as you can see, by strengthening all these structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u21	Do you agree with our proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u22	It will be an informal committee, but sometimes the informal ones are more essential in the outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u23	I would like to call the representatives of the parties, I mean the 'democratic arch' - to treat that expression myself, I too - to do this work in the office at all the time you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u24	Good. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-03-S1-commons.u25	With the consent of the House at 10.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 4, 2018 at 10 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
