ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-10-2018, the minutes of its Fourth Meeting of Wednesday, 3 October 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Themes of water, urban road transport and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 5 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 9/1-10-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Preservative indifference of the Minister of Education for Samothraki and Evros. It did not incorporate the island of Niki in favour of the introduction of students affected by areas in IOI - TEI". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 3/1-10-10-2018 by Congressman Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga is uncontrollable." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 10/1-10-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, entitled ‘Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 16/2-10-2018 topical question of the Independent MEP from Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject of "Association of the Refugee Problem in Lesvos". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The following topical questions will not be discussed from today's topical and urgent questions, according to a letter from the Government's Secretary: The second, with number 1/1-10-2018, is a top-stage question of the Greek People's Association MEP - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". The first one, with number 7/1-10-2018, a top-stage question for the Athens MP, Mr. Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Using land in GAIAOSE in the Municipality of Saints Anargyros - Kamateros", due to the obstruction of the relevant ministers, namely because of the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, since he has an official scheduled meeting with a European Commissioner. The second question, under number 4/1-10-2018, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara continues", because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Georgios Katrugalos, due to his absence abroad. Also, the third question under number 6/1-10-2018 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Skopje Limna becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. We therefore move on to two questions which the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer, Mr Olympia Tyloridos. We begin with the third with number 15/2-10-2018, a top-circuit question from the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The problems of ovine and caprine animals from the continuing fall in the price of milk". Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, the JRC brings to Parliament the acute problems of the poor and medium-sized farmers of the country, especially sheep and goat farmers who are currently in total collapse, in a violent eclipse. This bad situation is the result of the policy that serves the interests of the large dairy industries, the cartels on the milk market and the meat. In the free market that has your God, farmers are crushed in the millstones of competition for greater gain, to reach cheap raw material in industries. This situation further aggravates the legal and illegal import of milk. Producers, Madam Secretary, have been despaired by all the above, but also by the fact that the price of milk has collapsed over recent years. It is well below production costs, which currently reaches 90 minutes. And the worst part is that we are almost two months before we are at the top of the new year's production and producers do not know how much and when they will be paid. And here the position of the JRC is confirmed, when the debate took place a few months ago in the House in the bill in which you said that fresh and vulnerable products would be paid in sixty days. What do we have today? We had emphasized then that nowhere and never in capitalism is the people of toil and businessmen's interests hanging out with them. And what do we have today? They account for the producers and take checks on the crop they delivered after three, four and five months. So, what do we have? We have a hundred and fifty days instead of sixty days. And the worst thing is that a number of producers - in Aetolocarnania, for example, are dozens - have delivered their production and found closed doors, cannot make accounts for the production they delivered last year. And it turns out the sufferings of poor farmers and farmers have no end. The Ministry of Rural Development had posted online for public consultation in line with the requirements of the European Union Regulation 1305/2013. So we have, Madam Secretary, a new demarcation with natural constraints and natural handicaps in some areas, outside mountainous areas. In other words, there is a list and a map that leaves several regions out all over the country. Madam Undersecretary to answer from here: This map leaves hundreds of local and municipal apartments out. Will farmers in these areas continue to receive compensation after 2019? If they don't, it'll be the charismatic shot for them, because they're really poor farmers, with small lots, small units. You should also answer, Madam Secretary, and the questions we ask with our question: How will you protect producers from degrading prices and set survival prices for these people? Will you take measures for the cost of production, for cheap oil, for cheap electricity and for a number of other issues that we refer to in our question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I really understand the importance of your question. I understand it because the sheep and goat sector is one of the most important sectors in agricultural production and it can be one of those areas that will help the economic development of the country. The crucial issue you raise about milk prices is indeed very important, because at the moment there is a pressure from the dairy industries to the sheep and goat producers so that the price of milk is low. You understand that we cannot, in competition terms, see this issue, determine what the price of milk from the dairy industries will be. The Competition Committee is a competent authority on this matter. Let me point out to you that if there is indeed a fact that there is a cartel or abuse of the dominant position on the part of the dairy industries, the Competition Committee is obliged to intervene. This means that there must be concrete evidence to give rise to this particular issue. As Ministry of Rural Development, I would like to say to you that we are determined to support the small producer and we are also pressing on our side to ensure that the legality and the rules are respected. For example, I will tell you that milk controls are being carried out to identify infringements. These checks are carried out mainly by the "PIMITRA ELCO". There's a connection to the ARTEMIS system. I think that this is very important, so that we try to deal with this by observing the relevant infringements and imposing the corresponding sanctions. This means that there is a compulsory statement by the Ministry of Rural Development of monthly applications - statements of milk collections, as well as monthly applications - declarations of milk balance. Indeed, at this point I can tell you that we are now preparing a new ministerial decision, which I believe will surprise you positively, in the sense that we are trying to improve the existing legal basis and set stricter criteria and stricter fines for specific controls. I should also like to say that, when it comes to dealing with the financial problem of producers, we give a special basis to support the producer groups and through the new rural development programme, producer groups are being strengthened so that they are able to cope with these blows that are being taken by the lowering of the price of milk. I would like to say, however, that in order to improve the economic situation of sheep and goat farmers, it is not enough to see the price of milk. We need to reduce production costs and in this area I think we need to be in the direction, for example, of reducing energy costs by exploiting new technologies. These are issues that are strengthened by our side with the new rural development programme. I think that it would perhaps help an effort we now make at the Ministry of Rural Development to set up a production cost observatory. As far as the increase in the income of sheep and goat farmers and as much as the total number of people in agricultural production is concerned, there are also the government's more general proposals. Let me remind you of the Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. In this direction, the reduction of insurance contributions and the abolition of the trade fee for cooperative farmers will be directly legislated. I think we should aim above all at having a good product and a proper processing, which will give the added value to be incorporated into agricultural income.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u6	Madam Secretary, your position does not respond to the major problems faced by poor and middle farmers in the country. What did you tell us? That you are taking measures to protect farmers, that checks are carried out by the relevant Competition Committee. They're full of words. It's a mockery and a mockery to say that all this is happening. The results, the poor state and the impoverishment that farmers experience. It is proof that the price of milk is lower every year. Over the last three years these prices have fallen by over 20% both in milk and meat. Evidence of all this is the evidence we give to the question. So it is your policy that serves monopolies and large capitalist businesses. We do not say so, EUROSTAT says so. For example, the period from 2005 to 2013 - and don't tell me that it is not about your own governance, because things have deteriorated today, it is even worse - they were thrown out of production thirty-three thousand four hundred ninety sheep farmers and forty-eight thousand nine hundred sheep farmers, namely over 33% of the farmers in the country. The abandonment has continued rapidly in recent years. If these values are to prevail, together with what you have not responded to - and we call on you to respond to your dentistry - as far as the new demarcation of areas and the new compensatory compensation are concerned, there will be a violent mass dismantling. On the other hand, what we are saying is confirmed. So what happened? At this time, yes, the farmers have come out of production violently, but the big capitalist companies have entered production. At the same time it was 6% and today it is over 35%. Therefore, it turns out to be a great deal of how the cartels work and who your policy serves. Because there are indeed eight monopolies sewing about 40% of production. That's the reality. As I said, these are elements of the urban state. This is where the other one happens. While farmers are obsessed with their products, on the other hand, the people's families, the wide folk layers cannot approach these products because they are sold perfectly to people's consumption. Therefore, all these narratives, your memorial era, fair growth becomes truly devastated, shattered in the face of what humans are experiencing, farmers. You said that measures would be taken. We say clearly that not everyone in this exploitation system can be won, as SYRIZA says. In fact, you are fighting to acquit the capitalist system. We cannot have prices that leave producers income and, on the other hand, make business rich, because never and nowhere have these profits been shared among farmers, particularly farmers. What else did you tell us, Madam Secretary? That you urge people to make producer groups. And the last time you urged them to do interbranch organisations in milk too. Do you know what you're telling them? Let the sheep go with the wolves. That's exactly what you're telling them, because where they became interprofessional, it turned out to be a tool to capture farmers more and to control production from monopolies. This, as I have said, has been done in a number of areas and products which have become interprofessional. We are now clearly saying that there is a road that can really give breath to bio-family farmers and farmers. It is the struggle, the conflict with the European Union, because in our country - you have, of course, mentioned it in another respect - there are objective conditions for the development of all livestock sectors in order to meet the current nutritional needs of our people. Indeed, we have a negative balance in the agricultural sector and a large part of these products we import come mainly from livestock products. We call on farmers to take the case into their hands, to give their struggle and to fight for real solutions to the increased problems. We are asking you again, Madam Secretary - because this is important and we want you to answer specifically - whether the ones on the map will remain outside the balancing system. There's anguish all over the country. In fact, I am telling you, for example, that in western Greece and more specifically in Elia and Itolo-Carnania, for example, they are a hundred local apartments outside the new definition. This is what farmers throughout the country are anxiously expecting. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u8	Honestly, it seems to me that I am hearing from a left-wing Member saying that the government's proposal for producer groups is a proposal that is not in their interest and is against them. We believe in collectiveness and cooperation and believe that the cooperation of farmers shows the strength of the Union. Through these groups, in our view, we may have economically viable businesses that can compete better in this really difficult environment. The producer groups will help increase productivity, reduce production costs and better negotiation for product prices. That is why I consider the measure and all these objectives of the Rural Development Programme to be very important in supporting producer groups that can use technology, intelligent agriculture, education and all of this. The specific question you are asking about the relapse of the less favoured areas is a European regulation since 2013, as you know, according to which we are obliged to relapse these areas, because Measure 10.1 and 10.2 cannot continue to exist on the same criteria. If the least-favoured regions are not relapsed, I think you are well aware that from 1-12019 there will be no balancing in the country. I would like to make it clear that the aim of the Ministry after and the public consultation that has taken place is that there should really be no disadvantaged area outside the list. We take into account all the comments that have been made in the consultation. We are waiting, if you have in your own area and also in your overall, documented proposals, because some areas on the map that are on the map must be on the inside and we are prepared to cross-reference this map. But you have to understand that we are also obliged to make this relapse. The services, but also the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, are at your disposal, so that where there is injustice it does not work and restore it. As far as the information you give is concerned, you will allow me to tell you that it is data relating to 2005 until 2013. I am not saying this to renounce our own government's responsibilities. I'm just telling you that your data refers to previous government and previous political leaders. I would like to mention the official information I have from ELGO - DIMITRA, based on the producers of sheep and goat milk and the quantities they delivered on the basis of the production declarations and the balances. Thus, in 2013, we had fourteen thousand three hundred seven producers for milk and thirty-nine thousand seventy-seven seventy-three producers for sheep. In 2017, we had fifteen thousand 11 producers for spices, i.e. about a thousand more and forty thousand ninety nine producers for sheep, i.e. about two thousand producers more. Obviously, the situation has too many problems and you are right in that. But I told you that the intention of the political leadership is to help this problem. That is why I told you before that we are preparing a new ministerial decision on controls on milk, which will be strict and I think it will lay down conditions and rules so that there can be no such phenomenon on the part of the dairy industries. We support small farmers and medium-sized sheep and goat farmers. And you will see in the course that this is true and does not remain in the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u9	We shall now proceed to the next timely question. This is the first under number 8/1-10-2018 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Brexit has an impact on feta.” Mr. Katsaniotis, I thought the feta is in Thessaly and elsewhere, but I see Achaea has a feta. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, western Greece, Achaia, Itolo-Carnania and Elias are the largest region in the production of feta in Greece. Before I begin I could not wish the State Secretary a "good success" because he went to a ministry where the outgoing Minister, the longest-lived Memorandum of Agriculture, has screwed up. After you spoke about "ELGO - DIMITRA", it will be of great interest, Minister, to see the details of ELSTAT, because you said it was about previous governments. In 2009 to 2016 - at the same rate as in 2013, with the exception of 2013, which was slightly stabilised - we have a fall in livestock, we have a fall in farmed areas of 4.4 million acres. 12% of the country's productive land that was for agricultural use has stopped growing. And I repeat, at the same rate. It wasn't the previous or the current governments. We know that, at the moment, large debates on Brexit and the European Union have started. We also know that Brussels is proposing that London should adopt a, in essence, protection of geographical indications and designations of origin equivalent to that of the European Union. These products, apart from feta, are also a number of products and Greek products of interest and European interest. Unfortunately, we are learning, that is what the negotiator, Mr Barnier, seems to say, there is a problem. You realize that in a market like English if our feta has a problem or creates a problem and it is not guaranteed, what damage and what impact it may have on our exports. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we're talking about a product that the circle of people working around it in Greece is over three hundred thousand. You realise how it will be used by industry toward producers such a possibility. If we have a picture of what is going on with the negotiations and if we have an alternative plan, we will see what we can do. We know that there can be no direct agreement with Great Britain. Is there a plan? Is there any alternative plan we're already preparing for? Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr Colleague, if you like to hear evidence, I too will give some information showing that feta is a product which is exportable, which is very important and perhaps the crown of PDO and PGI products in our country. At the moment Greece is moving 28% worldwide of feta demand. We are therefore talking about a cigarette that touches around EUR 350 million and forty-five tonnes. The remaining 72% of world consumption is made by other types of cheese: imitations, white cheeses and mainly by the USA, Canada, South Africa, China, etc. I would like to point out for the story that the Greek Government gave all its powers to protect the feta. Let me remind you, for example, that on 15 February 2017 in plenary of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, voted by CETA, the MEPs of your own party were the ones who voted for this agreement, contrary to the members of the SYRIZA. In accordance with Articles 20, 21 of CETA, paragraphs 1 and 2, a transitional stage is allowed for those who are already authorised to produce Greek feta in Canada. So you understand how important it is, not in words, but in practice, to help in these matters. And now I come to the plans for the departure of Great Britain from the European Union: this procedure is defined in accordance with Article 50, which has been activated by the Treaty of Lisbon for the European Union in 2007. The negotiations are conducted by the competent services of the European Union headed, as you quite rightly said, by Mr Barnier. I would like to tell you that there is a mutual interest between the European Union and the United Kingdom in protecting PDO and PGI products. And I say that this is a mutual interest, because the European Union has an interest in protecting its own products which touch about three thousand, but the United Kingdom also has the same interest. Let's say, Scottish whiskey is a PDO product for Great Britain that wants to protect it. The European Union is therefore negotiating this whole issue. Our country is a member of the European Union. I think that this negotiation will be for the benefit of the countries of the European Union. I believe that we will reach a balanced agreement with Great Britain so that this agreement can move in the interests of the European Union, as regards the protection of PDO and PGI products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, it is indeed our export data. But I did not expect you to tell me one thing: how many tons of feta we were exporting to Canada. Your government, the previous Minister, raised an issue that in fact helped reduce the price and pressure the industry on producers to lower the price of milk, telling them that we lost the Canadian market. Do you know how much it is? Look at it. What we need to have in mind is how we really will protect Greek sheep and goat milk producers. I will insist that the national product is not the feta. It is the sheep and goat milk from which the feta is produced. Without it, we don't have a feta. I don't know what makes you feel sure that everything will go well with the negotiations with Great Britain. I'd try to find alternatives if I were you. For example, all the time the negotiations are continuing, has the Greek Government campaigned in Great Britain to remind the British consumers - now that we have the right - that the feta is only Greek? Has Enterprise Greece entered, which is where the Export Promotion Agency exists, been in store in Britain, so that it can help our product? It wasn't going to be lost, you know. If everything was going well and we got the deal, we'd gain. Finally, to say that what matters most is to protect the product. That's what we should all have in mind. We must move in that direction. If the milk does not have a good price to the producer, it cannot have a future. It can't have a future if prices are being pushed so hard. Interprofessional feta: You have it in the drawer. The interprofessional feta could really be the front in its promotion all this time in Great Britain. There are funds that are lost, there are possibilities that are lost. Get in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u16	I understand, therefore, that the New Democracy vote on CETA did not only concern sales to Canada. So I want to tell you that since the beginning of 2015 we have become a government, we have been involved in many international fora, and our efforts have been to protect the products of geographical indications and between those products of feta, which is a typical Greek product. As to how the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom will develop, you realise that we cannot fully know this. For example, we do not know whether or not there will be an agreement with the United Kingdom. The European Union's aim and effort is to have this agreement, to guarantee it through this PDO and PGI product agreement, and I think that this is in the interest, as I told you in my protology, of both sides. I would also like to say to you that in terms of bilateral relations and the advertising of our products it is things that are done by the Greek Government through the co-legislative ministries. As regards how the country handles the negotiation between the European Union and Great Britain, it is responsible and supervised, if you like, for this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, depending on matters, also has cooperation with the relevant ministries. We are in the direction currently being taken by the Community negotiating team, namely that there should be a beneficial and balanced agreement with Great Britain. If this agreement is not a strange one, you can understand that we cannot today, especially in this Chamber and in this question, discuss uncertainties management issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I) Central Repository of Titles, II) Adjustment of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III) Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 27 September 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u19	The House has agreed. As far as I can see, everyone will come to support their own amendment, Mr Gavroglou and Mr Petropoulos. However, those of the rapporteurs who, until the ministers are here, want to put you on the amendments, can do so. In the end, after the presentation by the ministers, you will also have a short period of dentistry, whether for the bill or in particular for the amendments, if you hear something that you are interested in and should comment on. I assume you're in agreement with the suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u20	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes from the 3rd Summer part of the House and is completed at the beginning of this new period. I wish you a good start and a good success in the work of the new period. It is a period of regularity that we have entered since summer, a normality expressed by the mere fact that we had many years of summer departments. Regularity is the fact that we are drawing up a budget after too many years as a Greek Government in the European Commission. Regularity has to do with the economy and the normalization of a number of economic sizes, which tell us or convince us about the positive prospects for the development of our country and about the fact that we are actually entering a new era that, in my opinion, is determined by a normality. Today's meeting also comes at a time when we are taking firm, but serious steps to get out of the crisis. We're out of the memos, like I said. The economic climate is improving day after day, which is demonstrated by various elements, which have been submitted in recent years not only by the official services of the country, but also by international interlocutors, the European partners, the competent European committees, such as the fact that unemployment in June 2018 was first recorded in 19.1%, falling about eight points compared to 2013, which makes us optimistic, not meaning that we have achieved the objective for the great reduction of unemployment required for our country and for growth reasons, but also for the essential and living conditions of the Greek people. In addition, the private consumption index is on an upward orbit, as well as significant rises are shown by imports. It is precisely this increase and the possibility is reflected in the budget submitted on Monday to be discussed in the relevant committees of the House. The bill is set up in three main parts. The first concerns adaptations to European Union directives and more specifically to central securities repositories and Directive 2016/2258 on the exchange of tax information in the fight against illegal activities within the European Union. It also deals with a number of issues arising from the day-to-day life of governance, and in particular is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to central securities repositories, it is adapted to Greek legislation, to Regulation 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and to central securities repositories. Regulation 909/2014, both known as CSDR, establishes uniform requirements for the settlement of financial instruments and for the organisation and functioning of central repositories in the European Union. The securities currently held in the system of intangible securities of the Greek central repository are completely dematerialised from 1999 to 2000. The sole type of final investor account adopted in Greece since then consolidated the arrangement for keeping the shareholders’ register. The CSDR requirements require the use of a mixed model account keeping, with the option of investors selecting between types of accounts. This is why the use of the collective account is institutionalised. The provisions of the draft law aim to adapt national law to the system of intangible securities, as it already operates under the national monopoly of the central repository of securities as manager of the intangible securities system. The existing system operates essentially by segregation by client under the main institutional provisions that the shareholder is registered in the central securities repository. Transfers of intangible securities are recorded in the records - Article 39 -, as well as intangible securities are held in the name of each investor, i.e. a portion of an investor, in the intangible securities system and not in the name of the participants under the collective account model. It is therefore necessary to amend all those provisions of the existing legislation which are based on those provisions in order to enable them to be adapted to the new data introduced by the CSDR. Finally, the provisions of the draft law attempt to unify and harmonise the existing legislation on the system of intangible securities so that the adaptation with the Union measure includes the specific legal features of the Greek system. The main points in Part One have been discussed by the committees per article. Because it won't take time, I won't refer in isolation. The second part of this draft is related to the European Union Directive 2016/2258 and relates to the access of tax authorities to information on the fight against money laundering. The provisions of Article 31 shall incorporate into the Greek law of Directive 2016/2258 on the access of tax authorities of each Member State of the European Union to the mechanisms, procedures, documents and information on the fight against money laundering in order to ensure the correct and uninterrupted application of administrative cooperation through the automatic exchange of information between Member States of the European Union on financial accounts beneficiaries based on the global model of L.4170/2013, as amended by the provisions of L.4378/2016. This Directive amends the original Directive of the European Union 2011/16 which applies the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the European Union and ensures that information on beneficiaries of financial accounts is communicated to the Member State of residence of the beneficiary. As regards Article 32, this provision establishes the access of the tax authorities, i.e. the AIA, mechanisms, documents, procedures and information set out in the provisions of Directive 2015/849 of the European Union, which was recently ratified by Law 4557/2018. The third part concerns a set of provisions of the Ministry of Finance, namely the daily life of the citizen. Article 34 amends Law 4428/2016 and makes the necessary corrections to the references made to the common reference standard of the third article of Law 4428/2016. Article 35 amends Article 14 of the Code on Income Tax, concerning categories of income from employed persons and tax-free pensions. The proposed regulation provides for the exemption of 65% of the flight compensation received by pilots from civil aviation in line with the tax treatment of the Armed Forces' Air Forces' allowance. Clearly, our will with this article is to try to strengthen and support the national air carrier and even at a time when even more intense growth in tourist current is combined with investment, which are planned by air carriers and will help us to achieve on this issue - air transport - a significant growth with far greater links than we have had so far. In Article 36 we have a return to income tax and VAT. The proposed provision accelerates the procedure for the reimbursement of income tax on legal persons and legal entities or for the value added tax on natural persons or legal persons and legal entities up to the total amount of EUR 10 000 to beneficiaries per beneficiary and per tax on the date of publication of the present case with control cases, with the ultimate objective of strengthening economic activity. The refund shall be made directly for requests up to EUR 10,000. Where more than one claim per beneficiary is pending, the refund shall be made directly, provided that the total claims made by the beneficiary amount to up to EUR 10 000 per tax. Cases for which a temporary correction of tax has been issued shall not be considered as pending. Finally, at a later date, sampling of these refunds may be carried out. Under this provision, companies acquire additional liquidity, the volume of redundancies required is reduced, thus facilitating economic activity in general. At the same time, however, the right of the tax authorities to carry out checks at a later date is guaranteed by the tax authorities, thereby safeguarding the public interest. Article 37 amends Article 54A of the Code on Tax Procedure where, under the applicable institutional framework, the taxable person liable for real estate tax or HPAI could transfer a real estate if, first, he paid the tax corresponding to that property or, second, with the exception of the notary withholding the tax of the transferred property. A prerequisite in any case for the performance of the contract was the repayment of other property taxes. The proposed regulation therefore enables the taxpayer to retain the price of the property tax in question by the notary when drawing up the contract. We're talking about the tax that corresponds to PAP and HISPIA. Article 38 is amended in accordance with Article 3 of L.4223/2013 where the rights to the total property of persons who died due to the fires which hit the areas of the Attica Region on 23 and 24 July 2018 irrespective of where that property is located are exempted. It is the least we can do, which can be done in a number of measures that have been taken and must be taken for practical support from the state's side to those affected on this destructive and destructive date. Article 39 is a follow-up to Article 38, in substance, to the same spirit. This Decision is addressed to the Republic of Croatia. The proposed provision stipulates that pensioners whose pension is still settled and paid by the State and who have a main or secondary residence or are hosted in accordance with form E1 of the tax income statement for 2016 and 2017 in areas of the Attica region which were also affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 will receive from the State commensurate with that of the pensioners of ECA, i.e. two gross monthly pensions of July 2018, in accordance with the same procedure. With this article we also come to assist in practical support for the strengthening of the wounded. The provisions of Article 40 shall be amended. 4270/2014 where the procedure for accounting the reimbursements of the unsettled balances is simplified, the pre-paying cash orders so that they are not made to the DUs but to the account of the Greek State that it maintains in the Bank of Greece. Article 41 of Law No.4314/2014 amends Articles 11 and 12 of Law No.4314/2014 in order to be updated after the entry into force of the new organisation of the Ministry of Finance, which has restructured the services of the General Secretariat for Financial Policy to which ESA is subject. In particular, Article 11 of the EEC Treaty provides that: Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority), amending Decision No 714/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. In addition, the composition of the latter and its responsibilities shall be defined. In Article 42 we have amended provisions of Law 4549/2018 which amend Articles 91, 93 and 102. These changes are not very important. They're more law-abiding. The proposed provisions of Article 43 stipulate the compensation for members of collective bodies - the Competition Committee, Working Groups and Project Management - which have been set up primarily to review the expenditure of the Ministries and their supervised bodies in the context of the cooperation of the Hellenic Republic with the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office, which will, of course, be borne entirely by covering the expenditure in question. Article 44 deals with matters relating to the payroll of transferees from lower to higher level of education. In particular, the service time to be taken into account for the payroll and the development in the payrolls of the upper grade of education. It is therefore clear how this service time is calculated and is the total service time. Assuming that a PPC has been employed for 10 years, if it moves from PPC to IP category it remains to be counted towards its ranking as IP over the decades. In Article 45, the employees of the Ministry of Finance are treated as employees of the Ministry of Finance in relation to work of public and private law indefinitely appointed or transferred after 1-11-2011 to those who served before that date, as well as to legal persons governed by public law, the Greek Statistical Authority, the Independent Authority of Public Revenues, as well as the Legal Board of State as administrative staff. In particular, provision is made for all such officials to be granted the personal dispute referred to in Article 27 of Law No4354/2015 in application of the Constitutional principle of equality, as they are officials who provide the same services and carry out similar tasks to those who were already serving before that critical date. There is also an amendment from the Ministry for which, Mr President, I would like to make it my second point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 46 seeks to reduce the burden of the work of the Legal Council of the State and its members, due to the fact that, by joining the regulations of Law 3869/2010 and the debts to the Greek State of natural persons depriving them of bankruptcy, they were brought before the courts of the whole country by interested parties and pending a large number of relevant applications, about sixteen thousand. Such cases do not present any significant legal and pragmatic issues for the members of the Board of Legal Affairs of the State, so they can be adequately restored by officials of the competent Economic Authority and therefore there is no need for them to be present. Mr President, you will allow me to speak for another minute, because the debate on this bill in committee has given rise to two issues which, precisely because the criticism of this bill was - I would say - very positive from the point of view of counter-population, were either raised on the basis of the amendment tabled by Mr Koutsoukos on behalf of KINAL or from the intervention of the rapporteur for Officerial Opposition, Mr Besiropoulos. There have therefore been two issues on which I should like to say briefly a few words. The first concerns pensions, countermeasures and the budget. By tabling the budget, it has become clear that all this philology about what will happen on 1-1-2019 for the so-called reduction in pensions and all that has simply been swallowed into the void. There is no such version. This is evidenced by the drawing up of the budget for 2019 and by the agreement of the Head of the European Commission, who said that precisely because the measure is only budgetary and the budgetary objectives have already been achieved and the success of the budgetary targets for the surplus of 3.5% is guaranteed, there is no reason to reduce the personal difference. Because that was all about this legislative initiative. There is no reason, therefore, for the personal difference to be abolished, so there is no reason ultimately to reduce the amount of pension for this part of the pensioners. With regard to Mr Koutsuku's amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u22	And hang up with this, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u23	I'm closing, Mr. President. As far as Mr Koutsukou's amendment is concerned, therefore, he talks about a transfer of ten thousand real estate to the Public Participation and Property Company. We have to make it clear that there is no transfer, there is a transition to transfer control, where control clearly and explicitly excludes all property which fulfil public purposes, as detailed in the relevant Ministerial Decision. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how eight students and students are organized and three educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Pefkis (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] However, if I may comment, since 1990 I have been in Parliament, but as far as I have looked in the Minutes, and since the first time a budget has been submitted with two scenarios. This has never been done in the Greek Parliament. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vésiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u25	May I speak, Mr. President? You made an intervention, Mr President, and I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u26	You will speak, Mr. Mada, after the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the draft law on the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and central securities repositories coincides with the submission of the preliminary draft budget by the Government, which breaks the myth of exit from the memorandum or 'clean exit'. Through the preliminary draft budget, the only certainty that arises is the taxes and their absolute identification with the Government of Mr. Tsipras. One wonders what else it is necessary for the government to understand that the burden-sharing capacity of the citizens has been exhausted. Mr Tsipras' answer is, of course, taxes, seizures and auctions. The "clean exit" account has already collapsed on the markets, since yesterday the interest rate of the ten-year Greek bond was increased to 4.33%, which is forbidden to exit the markets. In the context of these grim conditions for the country, which are even more burdensome with the government's methods in the issue of Skopje, the draft law is being discussed, which creates a common European framework for the settlement of securities, but also for the operation of central repositories. I would point out that the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 should have already been done, but it comes with a significant delay in the House with the responsibility of the Government, which demonstrates once again the curiosity that characterises it in the area of parliamentary work. This delay has had consequences, since a climate of concern and insecurity has been created for institutional investors all this time since our country was one of the few European Union countries that had been late in incorporating the specific regulation establishing a common European securities settlement framework into its national legislation. The aim set out by the European Union in this Regulation is to liberalise the services provided by central securities repositories as securities settlement bodies in a pan-European format in order to create a single pan-European securities settlement framework enabling each Union investor to invest in European securities on the same terms and using the same procedures. In other words, the objective set at European Union level is to establish uniform rules for all countries - members and the central securities repositories of all Member States of the European Union, which should start a new licensing process by the market committees, while the regulatory framework for their operation falls under new and uniform rules and regulations. But I pointed out in my speech to the committee that the way the government brings this bill is the following: Firstly, it is not clear when the property is acquired in the collective accounts, which creates insecurity as to when ownership is acquired, and the consequences of non-inclusion by the ombudsmen, which is a breach of their obligation, are not provided for. This draft law, while for securities held directly in the repository, defines when the transfer takes place, only the obligation of the intermediaries to register the transfer is laid down, without specifying when the transfer takes place. Secondly, the monitoring of entries in collective accounts by the Securities and Exchange Commission cannot be effectively exercised since the entries are made in the books of foreign depositaries. In this way, there is a risk of delaying or omissioning transfer entries, thereby jeopardising investors' rights and any loss of revenue. I told you in committee, and now I tell you, on these points, that we should expressly define how it is acquired and not just proof of ownership of intact values in the bill. Thirdly, it is reasonable to comment on Article 17 to identify shareholders registered in collective accounts. The distinction between anonymous and nominal shares, as regards the disclosure of shareholders, is inconsistent with the right of all issuers and not only of nominal shares to know their shareholders. A right stemming from the second shareholder rights directive, SRD II, which will be incorporated directly into national law in the next period. So it is good to see this parameter too. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill in its other articles, except for the adaptation of Greek legislation to the European regulation, has as a reference dispersed, fragmented and irrelevant reference among them provisions on fiscal and budgetary matters. I should like to refer to some of them: Articles 31, 32 and 33 include Council Directive 2016/2258 of 6 December 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU to facilitate access by tax authorities to information in order not to use the financial system for money laundering. The New Democracy has taken the lead in this effort to cooperate with the tax authorities as a government and its position is given. The Government, however, has responsibilities since delayed in incorporating this directive into national law, and this is evidenced by the fact that these provisions have been retroactively applicable since 1-1-2018. The provision for a direct tax refund up to EUR 10,000 per tax and a beneficiary, provided that a provisional adjustment of the tax referred to in Article 36 has not been issued, has two parameters. The first is that this provision is tabled because there is a clear downturn in the tax return targets. The second is much more substantial than when this arrangement is not of a fixed nature, but only applies to the remaining ones on the date of publication of these return control cases as indicated. Why? Because very simply cases that will become pending even on the day following the publication of the CVT are out of order. We're positive. What is simpler, however, than to establish a permanent and rational institutional framework for speeding up tax refunds instead of tabling fragmentary regulations which are also imperfect? We are in a positive position to address the provisions of Article 37, which allows the ENVY certificate to be issued for a transfer of certain property by withholding and yielding the total amount due on the principal and additional taxes and increases on all property for which there is a relevant obligation and not only for the transferred property. The same applies to Article 38 on the discharge of the EMI of the deceased in the fires of Attica, but also to Article 39 which extends the aid measures for firefighting pensioners and retired public pensioners, with the footnote that you should have foreseen this in the original arrangement submitted. In Article 42, for reasons of consistency, we will be voting'represent', as we have done, by explaining our position in the debate on the draft budget. Under the provisions of this Article, the Minister of Finance shall, by decision, provide the guarantee of the Greek State to national or foreign financial institutions, bodies or consortia thereof and public law bodies for loans, guarantee letters, counter-guarantees, credits and any other financial instrument which they grant to private enterprises, professionals and cooperatives, as well as public or private or mixed bodies. On the other hand, New Democracy will vote against Article 43 in which compensation is paid by decision of the Minister of Finance, by way of derogation from the applicable provisions, to members of the collective bodies set up by decisions of the relevant Ministers in 2016 and 2017 to review the expenditure of the Ministries and their supervised bodies. We are voting against it for three reasons. Firstly, because it is paradoxical and innovative that the government should institutionalise an increase in expenditure on the remuneration of the members of committees supposedly involved in reducing public spending. Secondly, because there is no limit to these costs, but they will be determined by a simple decision of the Minister. And thirdly, because in the new establishment plan of the Ministry of Finance, which you have brought, a new Directorate-General for Economic Affairs was set up for assessing general government actions under the Directorate-General for Finance and Budget, with the aim of designing, coordinating, implementing and evaluating general themes of the expenditure surveys carried out by the bodies of the General Government, namely, which would have precisely this task for which you have established new and additional expenditure. New Republic shall vote in favour of Article 45 for the award of the personal dispute, paragraph 1 of Article 27 of Law No.4354/2015, for officials with employment relationships with public law or with private law of indefinite duration, including graduates from the National School of Public Administration and Government, appointed or transferred after 1-11-2011, as well as the date of publication of the law in question in the services of the Ministry of Finance and persons supervised by it. For Rule 46, however, we have asked - in order to vote positively - for the Scientific Council of Parliament to be consulted on the constitutionality of this provision, which allows the public to be represented before the court by an official of the competent tax administration and no longer by a member of the Legal Board of State. This is because there is a feeling that this provision in Article 100a of the Constitution is inconsistent. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government - according to its usual practice - made the tabling of late amendments even last night, an extremely anti-parliamentary behaviour that the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has turned it into a rule. Even the amendment to increase moleculosis for low-income students, which is the only one that could be justified, legalised and supported by all of us, is incomplete, since it should also provide for an increase in moleculosis for students who are members of multiple families. We could also discuss the amendment on the Electronic Ship Register for Recreational Ships, which had been established by the previous government in 2014, but for almost four years it had not been activated under the government's responsibility. However, the regulations contained in the amendment could come into a separate bill dealing with the issues of maritime tourism as a whole. You are also bringing an amendment that extends for the second time the transitional phase for the compensation of the Catholic Post Office, when since January 2015 you have done absolutely nothing. Nor did the issue of the CIRR in order to allocate the costs of the Catholic Post Office to the postal service providers were you able to issue. As far as the provision of taxpayers' information to interbank companies or legal entities governed by public law is concerned, this is a very serious matter to come with an amendment and, indeed, with this kind of practice. There should be an opinion of the Independent Privacy Authority in order to ensure tax confidentiality and that these data provided are absolutely essential and there will be no risk of further leakage. It is clear that we cannot legitimise this practice of tabling unrelated amendments at 12 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy in another bill works constructively and in terms of responsibility towards the country and the citizens. We do not expect this to be appreciated by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government that has transformed bisecting logic into everyday practice. The government is trying to stay frustrated in power in every way, even with the reintegration of the parliamentary majority, in ways that do not complicate our democratic city. We have heard, in fact, from governmental circles of novel theories, such as maintaining a minority government. The solution is one: the citizens must be given the floor immediately, since the disharmony between the government and the Greek society has never been to the extent it is today. The citizens' crisis, whatever the government does, will not avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u29	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u30	I take the floor, Mr President, because you made a reference to the preliminary draft budget, that this is unprecedented. I want to inform you and the House of one or two basic things to make the confrontation on real issues that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u31	If you have to tell me I was wrong, take the floor. We are not having a debate on the substance of the budget today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u32	Oh, no. Because you made an observation, though, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u33	Is it right or wrong? If it's wrong, tell me 'you were wrong', it's been done before. Not to talk about the budget now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u34	I'm not talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u35	Good. I haven't put time. I'm exposing to your discipline and your seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u36	So with a positive attitude, Mr President, I wanted to inform you of this. The preliminary draft budget includes a baseline scenario - not a basic scenario, I repeat, a baseline scenario - and the proposed interventions on the part of the government. That is what is happening, Mr President, because since 2010, when some political forces had put us in the memorials, the European Semesters, which have been in force since then, have been forming a form of budgets for all the countries of the European Union in this way, namely, a baseline scenario and the proposed interventions proposed by all the governments of the European Union in the European Semester process. That's what I wanted to explain. I would like to say one more word, and I shall end, because that is essential, Mr President. When you say something, I want to explain it. I have to explain it to our side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u37	You explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u38	I conclude with the following: it would be completely unjustified for any government over a base scenario, which is a formal process that shows the data by then, not to say that it would take any intervention, that it would go on holiday or - I don't know - something else. So that's what this is about. Because a lot has been written about it, that there are double books, double scripts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u39	All right, Mr. Mada. However, I thank you for confirming me with regard to the formality, at least, that it is the first time. Let's move on. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u40	I have been elected as Yannis, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u41	I say everything I see written. You know I call you a little more simply because of friendship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u42	It is not typical, it is essential. Thank you, Mr President. He felt the need for Mr. Madice to play the role of the Minister of Finance. The representative of the Ministry of Finance is here. He could explain it to us, Mr. Manda. Does the six-month process say we're going to put down a draft with two scenarios, where one says that we're cutting pensions and the other that we don't cut them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u43	You don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u44	Haven't we realised that you're trying to make fun of the Greek people? You think we haven't figured that out? And in any case, if you're really serious, will you tell us what plan you'll be sending to Brussels on October 15th? Because you cannot submit to Parliament a draft with two scenarios and on October 15 to send another one!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u45	Dear Yannis, a little lower, because there's an echo of the new microphones and you don't sound well. There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u46	I wouldn't have made that intervention, but Mr. Mandas was in a hurry...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u47	Let the meeting come to life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u48	In any case, Mr President, this bill is being offered to have a debate on two issues relating to the bill. What Mr. Maddash said doesn't matter. We will talk about it next week when the draft budget comes to committee. The first observation that one has to make since the bill has for title the repositories of the capital market, is that today is the next day of the "black" Wednesday, where it proved not only the shallowness of the operation of the Greek market but also the fact that the government is elsewhere. In other words, the government tells us that we have come out of the memorials, that we have a clear exit and that both the shallowness and the risk on the market and the fact that the Securities Committee cannot control developments - recently we had the FOLLI FOLLIE scandal - are all the backs of the Greek people. And as we all know, at the end of 2014, the capitalisation of the Greek banks - the shares of which the Financial Stability Fund held, namely, the Greek State - was 25 billion. And these 25 billion have been wings thanks to SYRIZA government's policy. Is that so, Mr. Mada?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u49	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u50	If that's not the case, tell us. Tell us what the capitalisation of the four systemic banks is after what you have done with your policy over the past few years. This is the one that would allow us to have a serious debate about what needs to be done in this place, so that we do not play electoral games and put the country in enormous dangers of ergonomics. In fact, with its methods, the government is undermining the country itself and, therefore, a political consensus and a social consensus is actually emerging in order to get the country out of the deadlock. This is the key message of what has happened yesterday and of what will take place in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u51	I'm sorry, Mr. Kutsuko, for the interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the project "Workery of Democracy", twenty-one students and students and an attendant of the 2nd Municipal School of Greek. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u52	The second point concerns the closure of the speech by the majority rapporteur, Mrs Dimitriadis. He mentioned in our amendment, the Democratic Association, in relation to the cancellation of Mr Tsakalotou's act to transfer ten thousand ten thousand nine properties from the Greek State to the Real Estate Company, which is a subsidiary of the Supreme Treasury. We also told the committee, which Mr Tsakalotos was kind enough to come and answer, that we are making an effort to help the government correct its mistake. Because Mr Tsakalotos admitted that mistakes have been made and Mrs Zorba said so. What does not make sense is what the majority rapporteur has just said that it is an act to go for control. It appears that we have not finished the same Greek schools as SYRIZA, because the FEK 2320 says in paragraph 1: "They are transferred in accordance with Article 96 and so on". It says "transfer"!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u53	If they're checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Dimitriadis, you spoke and no one interrupted you. Listen to the opposing person. You will respond to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u55	I know you're inconvenience, but you'll learn to listen. It says "transfer" and if you haven't taken it, see what has happened all over the Greek region. Yesterday I learned that he met the municipal council of the municipality of Larissa and asked for the act to be cancelled for a hundred ninety properties. This is done throughout Greece, because people know that the properties that are in the Greek state and are not protected, such as Knossos, for example, who accidentally entered, are real estates of the Greek state that are public use. They're hospitals, they're health centers, they're squares, they're parcels. So, what's the point of going to the Supreme Court? Is there any other reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u56	Excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u57	They're not excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Demetriades, excuse me, but this is the last time I intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u59	There's no exception. The exception is the archaeological sites. Understood? Read Article 196(4). The same schools are done, the Greek schools here. We're not done with anything else. We read the same thing. Well, stop defending a policy that's wrong. And stop saying that we are reacting because the smiling of local rulers will appear. But the local rulers claimed to be registered and recorded. In any case, in order to finish this issue, we have tabled a question and I would like, Mr Manda, to see your sensitivity and not interrupt me when you do not like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u60	Did I interrupt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u61	We have tabled a question since 11 September and we ask you to give us the description of ten thousand hundred and ten nine real estates transferred under the codes of the CDE. Why? So the local communities don't know? So I tell you what was the practice of previous governments, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I will show you Mr Maniotis' answer to a question from your own colleague, who had the description of the properties, and he says 'Tell us and the codes', and the government has acted transparently. Why did you download from the EBRD website the property description? What policy of opacity and drunkenness is this? What's happening in this country is unprecedented. We are therefore waiting for the answer, because the parliamentary deadline expires tomorrow. But you know we'll come back. You have a responsibility to Parliament and to the Greek people. Defend your policy, but with transparency, do not hide. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly timely following developments on the capital market and on the Greek market, as it substantially changes the way in which shareholders' securities are deposited and safeguarded, and is the result of a European regulation and a European directive. Describe it a little more simply so people can understand us. To date, there is a state monopoly, the central repository of securities that acted as a subsidiary of the Greek stock exchange and operates under the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission. All intangible securities are deposited there and there are the individual accounts of each Greek citizen investor who buys and sells securities. There must be transparency in this process and there must be guarantee mechanisms, as the repository helps to maintain the trading values, ensures the proper functioning of the financial markets and provides the participants with the guarantees that their transactions are conducted properly and in good time even in the period of stress and pressure, such as those we have experienced yesterday. In discussing how to deal with this issue at a pan-European level, the European Union has considered that it does not need, as we are in the single market, to have a single repository of securities, but has enabled national authorities to supervise individual repositories which, however, are now private companies and I would say that they are speculative companies, because they have a supply and produce a result. So in Greece, when this piece of legislation enters into force, tomorrow in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 1 to 30, the central repositories of which are the repositories of the Securities Committee must be certified. This must also be certified. What are the issues that are being raised and for which we have called on the government to tell us what it has to do to strengthen the capital market and take measures against tough competition - why are French, English, German, what you want to do to make their own repositories? We didn't get a reply. It is, in my opinion, a question of transparency, because now, on the basis of this legislation, we are passing individual accounts on to collective accounts. And, as representatives of investors who came to committee, there is a question of transparency in trade. That is to say, to date all the audit authorities, fiscal authorities and others, have had the possibility, but also investors, of having access to individual accounts. This does not seem to have been addressed in the process of collective accounts. This is a central issue. From there on, I have no problem with the "translation" and the correlation of the provisions, because, as we were told by the Securities and Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece, they have participated in the Legislative Committee which has been operating since last year. He should have come this piece of legislation, but he didn't come. In any case, I have the assessment that they have the know-how, as the Greek Parliament does not have it to capture all these technical characteristics under law. The question I raised in committee as well, by asking the Securities and Markets Committee, is that of the transitional provisions in Article 29 and the special accounts. What's Article 29 doing? It ensures with transitional provisions that we move from the former regime to the present regime. That must be cleared up all the old cases - all the skeletons in the wardrobe - of bankrupt companies, companies that closed down for infringement of the rules and so on. and I am not in a position and neither were there to tell me whether this process will guarantee the interests of certain investors, as it is foreseen that after a while, if the person concerned does not show up, we will go to auctioning and lose some of their rights. That is why we will have a reservation in this article, because we do not have a full picture of the procedures and the arrangements and, I would say, did not allow the debate to take full light on the committee and therefore also on the plenary. I imagine that none of the Members in this House have the possibility of placing them in full knowledge if what they say is right or wrong. The remaining articles of the bill are the part that extends the 2016 Directive, Directive 2258 of 6 December 2016, which we have ratified here by a series of laws. With this directive all authorities concerned with money laundering, tax avoidance and so on can access the data. I think it is right, although, as I have said in committee, that would be self-evident. Now the bill has a series of articles that try to solve some problems. Most of them are in the right direction. We have some reservations, but we do not have time to discuss them in detail. We'll be placed, if the word is given, in our dentistry. I would like to say first of all to Rule 45. What is the Treasury doing with Article 45? It comes to solve an old issue, which has been raised by many of us - I had put it with my amendment the previous time - which said: we have two speed employees in the Ministry of Finance. We have employees who have kept personal differences and have newly appointed employees or newly retired employees, who are highly qualified, especially newly appointed, postgraduately, with doctorates, with experience in auditing companies have a huge difference in pay, despite the fact that they do a great deal of work. The Ministry is coming to resolve this in a way that leaves gaps. These gaps were also made by workers' representatives in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's coming up with the Ministry, and it's setting the end date. This means, however, that the process of the new procedure under way tomorrow, in a few days' time, will once again create two-speed employees. The transfers that are under way again will create us two speed employees. Furthermore, it leaves a gap in certain areas which had the same pay policy and personal differences as the Ministry of Finance. One of these is the Court of Auditors, the other is the Ministry of Economy. It could be something else that's dispersed our attention. I have, however, supported the committee and I support it, and now that regardless of whether we vote on the provision, because it solves a single issue, it is not a proper institutional issue and it does not close down, but it opens up issues. I would say, therefore, that with a legislative improvement on the basis of my amendment, which I have tabled for a year, this regulation can be settled on a regular basis and that the House and the Minister of Finance do not need each time to come behind developments. Because new recruitments, new transfers and the differences that exist will create this need and pressure at all times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. We got a bunch of amendments last night. I imagine, when the ministers talk, you'll give us the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u62	You'll have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u63	Good, Mr. President. So I'll finish here. I will talk later about the government amendments tabled last night. I said that we, as a PASOK, as a Democratic Incorporation and as a Change Movement, are consistent and serious in terms of directives and regulations in our country, we have a firm view and we are voting in favour of them. Our commitment to the articles and our differences relate to the government's strategy. In any case, we will see them, especially when the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has referred to us, in advance of our speeches. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u64	Since only two speakers have written, we have the luxury of the rapporteurs and the speakers having a five-minute dentistry, either on the amendments or on whatever else they want to be put, in any case, after the cycle of speech has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, because Mr Koutsoukos referred to me, I have to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u66	You'll answer. Unless you want personal reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u67	No, it's not personal. It's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u68	All right, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u69	I am also going to confirm what Mr Mandash said before, that in fact since 2010 in the preliminary draft budget in all the European Union countries for the European semester there is a baseline scenario. By entering a little and, in fact, saying what the base scenario is. The baseline scenario is what existed in the medium term. From there on, what has been legislated up to the preliminary draft budget is the baseline scenario. Alas, if each government would not have another proposal and alas if it would not want to implement its own policy in a normal situation, as we are now, that we are no longer in the memoranda that we have been from 2010 until today. I think that you are ignoring this provision, because just from 2010 until now, our country has not been in a normal state. From now on, in a normal state, as we are now, this will be all the drafting of our budgets. I'm going to go over the part that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u70	Madam Minister, you won't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u71	No, I won't speak. I'll talk in the two minutes you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u72	The fact that they're two of the registered speakers doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u73	With regard to the ten thousand properties, Mr President, to which Mr Koutsoukos referred, we must make it clear: they are neither transferred nor could. You always talk about the ministerial decision and the law. First of all, there is a second article in the ministerial decision. The second article is the categories of real estate, which cannot be transferred and are clear to Article 2 of the Ministerial Decision, as well as to the law of the SSPS. I shall refer to the exceptions. The exceptions, i.e. those which are not transferred under any circumstances, are: saints, beaches, passive areas, water land, Ramsar areas, NATURA areas, archaeological sites, purely forest land, etc. Also, things outside of the transaction, such as squares, pavements, streets, sanctuaries, ports, bays, lakes, as well as other common ones, that is, all that is intended to serve public, municipal, community or religious purposes. In conclusion, no real estate transfer shall take place if the case referred to in paragraph 4 is not the case. And you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u74	Madam Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u75	To complete the relocation, the relocation must be made to the mortgage in each area. This has not been done in any region and, moreover, the ministerial decision clearly states that the transfer is being considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u76	Madam Minister, please close. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u77	By continuing, I would like to say that this is the law of the supergovernment. You, with the legislation of the GOD, have given archaeological sites, which are currently registered in the mortgages and wherever else they must be. I refer to the sites of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, have you realised that there are presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u80	Now here's what I'll tell you. You happen today to represent the government. Either positively or negatively for a reference to your face, since it is not a hybrid, you cannot ask me why you should answer. You will record them at the end you have - thank God - twenty minutes, answer everything and with one tolerance to answer more. But not every time you mention your name, ask why and speak every five minutes. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u81	Please, Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u82	What do you want, Mr. Dimitriadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u83	Because Mr. Koutsoukos referred to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u84	Good. You'll tell your dentist. He didn't swear on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u85	I'm sorry, but he used the expression "if we know Greek, if we talk, if we read the same things." I just want the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u86	Here, you have the floor for a minute and these interventions are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u87	Yes, sir. For the Greek, then, which, if any, we know or do not know, I read the Ministerial Decision on words: "Exemption from any of the above assets..." - those that are to be transferred, namely - "... fall within the exceptions of Article 196(4)..."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u88	Your Minister said so, Mr. Dimitriadis. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u89	That's right. So we know Greek. There's no reason to speak insultingly to each other in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u90	Please, it won't happen again, and I'll make it clear. Only in a personal or abusive comment any colleague who wants to have the floor will have the floor. We proceed with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. When the Minister takes the floor, she will have to answer exactly what has been said. The second article you mentioned removes some codes. What did they get in for, though? Was there any chance they'd pass through? You couldn't predict from the beginning how to avoid this? Because you have also referred to the draft budget, you should explain to the Greek people how on your day the foreign debt has increased by more than 20 billion. How can we go into the memoranda with a debt of 129% of GDP and today go out with a 195% debt? It's just mathematics and the Greek people don't understand it. You're gonna have to explain it. With regard to the draft law, I will not refer to the first two parts relating to Articles 1 to 30 from Part One and Articles 30 to 34 from Part Two. I shall refer to Part Three and Article 35, which refers to the 65% exemption from the tax or flight compensation paid to pilots from the Civil Aviation or the Civil Aviation Service. It does not mention, however, how much the estimated expenditure on the state budget will be. In addition, we think it would be preferable for good and obvious reasons to consider the increase in the remuneration and allowances of the Air Forces flying and the related tax exemptions, which would involve the pilots of the Armed Forces as an additional payment. We shall vote against Rule 35. Article 36 shall refer to persons pending on the date of publication of the law assumptions of a return to income tax for legal persons and legal entities or to value added tax for natural persons or legal persons and legal entities, provided that the total amount of outstanding applications applied for is up to EUR 10,000 per tax and per beneficiary. The refund shall be effected directly without prejudice to the limitations. The provision is inadequate, Minister. The state has evolved into a first-class base on its debts to the citizens, in order to achieve the wealthy surpluses. However, this legitimate misappropriation which is improperly perpetuating the state against its citizens must at some point be stopped. Semimeters, such as this provision, are not enough, and the amount of EUR 10,000 that is set to be returned is outrageously low and a mockery to businesses and entrepreneurs, who have been destroyed and taken into the enclosed because of the state's inconsistencies in its payments. We are asking for immediate repayment of all the State's debts to natural and legal persons, without stumbling and bureaucratic procedures. It is the only solution for the market to be reinitiated. All the rest is ashes in the eyes ahead of the forthcoming election. We shall vote'residences' in this article. Article 37 may be amended at the request of the person liable for the transfer of a specified property by withholding and reimbursing the total amount of principal and additional taxes and increases for all property for which he is liable. Any arrangement that facilitates or simplifies the process of transfer of property is in a positive direction. Unfortunately, however, semi-metres and fragmentary arrangements, such as this provision, are not enough to bring about the real estate market, which has been completely declining because of the government's memoranda over the last decade. We are voting against it. Particular attention should also be paid to Article 38, which exempts the property of the deceased from the murderous fire in Matti for the year 2018. On a particularly critical issue, on which the support of the state should be decisive, lasting and effective, the government once again displays unforgivable preoccupation and clandestineness. The wording of this regulation raises many serious questions, which we have also raised in committees, Madam Minister: What will happen with the existing assets? For the following years will there be an obligation to pay ENVIRONY for these properties? The layout refers only to deceased persons. Why is there no provision for the real estate of the dozens of injured, burners, whose life was marked and destroyed that day? We shall vote 'the present'. In Article 39, the exceptional financial support to firefighting pensioners in the Attica Region affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 is two gross monthly pensions for the month of July 2018. It is also granted to those affected who are entitled to a military pension or to a disabled citizen's pension of a peaceful period or to a national resistance. This provision extends the exceptional measures to strengthen firefighting pensioners to a greater number of our affected fellow citizens. We will be voting in favour of it. Articles 40 and 41 are amended and technical provisions supplemented. We shall vote 'the present'. Article 42 provides for the provision by decision of the Minister of Finance of the Greek State guarantee to national or foreign financial institutions, institutions, or joint ventures of public law for loans, guarantee letters, counter-guarantees, credits and any other financial instrument granted to private enterprises, professionals and cooperatives, as well as public or private mixed entities. No safeguards are introduced and no guarantees are provided that the Government will operate in a transparent, impartial crisis and objectivity in the choice of natural and legal persons to benefit from the Greek State's guarantee. I would point out, however, that when the decision in question is taken only by the relevant Minister, without the participation of any other body or public supervisory body, in order to ensure that there is control and supervision in the relevant ministerial decisions. We are also voting against this article. In Article 43 we have another case of a photographic provision, which aims to serve the party army of the Government and its partners in the public sector, and even at the expense of taxpayers, the amount of which is not determined either by the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. We are also voting against this article. Article 44 encourages staff members in this category, contrary to previous Court of Auditors’ crises, in which it was not lawful to recognise all the service carried out under a lower education category. This is another case of co-legislative with rheology criteria, in your government's attempt to avoid your upcoming election crash. We shall also vote against this article. Under Article 45, through the granting of the personal difference, the remuneration of officials of the Ministry of Finance and supervised bodies shall be increased. In this case, as in the previous article, we have a lasting and hopeless effort by the government, obviously, as I said before, in view of the forthcoming elections, to avoid the election disappearance, sharing gifts to the right and the left and increasing the wages of the already privileged civil servants, at the same time that the majority of our Greek fellow citizens are falling. We shall also vote against this article. The purpose of the provision of Article 46 is to alleviate the members of the Legal Council of the State. However, with what is being proposed, it is certain that the representation of the Greek State before the judiciary in the specific cases will, in fact, be degraded and to a very large extent, since, in most cases, the public will be represented in the courts, not by lawyers, but by officials with little or no legal knowledge. We are also voting against this article. I shall now refer to the amendments, in particular Amendment Nos 1763 and 260 of the Ministry of Education specialist. This amendment, firstly, regulates issues of the administrative and trade union nature and the functioning of various services, boards, which fall within the Ministry of Education and the Central Board of Administrative Staff, as a coordinating body. These are regulations, which in fact only concern professional trade unionists, who are unfortunately appalling in the field of education. Moreover, it is stipulated that students with very low income are being strengthened to the molecules, up to 3,000 euros, in order to obtain the right to relocation. However, the same protection must also apply to the lowest incomes of up to EUR 10,000-12 000, which are the majority of the cases involved. Finally, the proposed amendment introduces a regulation which stipulates that Muslim citizens of Thrace have the opportunity to choose their jurisdiction under the jurisdiction of the administrative courts, instead of that of the muft, without requiring the previous adoption of a Presidential Decree. This arrangement is a milestone and in practice it will prove ineffective, since, unfortunately, the circles of the Turkish Consulate in Thrace act uncontrollable and force the Greek Muslims of the minority. Unique and effective solution to deal with the problem will at last be to introduce, without exceptions and asterisks, the compulsory placing of all Greek citizens throughout the territory under the jurisdiction of the civil courts. We are also voting against this amendment. The proposed amendment, with a general figure of 1770 and a specialist of 263, bears the state budget of EUR 30 000 000 in order to cover the cost of providing universal postal services for the years 2016-2017. This is a smuggling of public money into bodies whose benefits are not equivalent to the aid received by the State. The complete inability of this sector to operate on sound bases and its full dependence on state financial assistance is noted. For the other amendments - we do not know what will be accepted - I shall refer to my second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u92	Me too, Mr. Shahinides. I should like to give the floor - since he has come to Parliament and for the rest of the four speakers to have it in mind - for five minutes to Mr Gavroglou for his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to the amendment relating to the term of office of the staff councils, which are now in charge of the choices made by a number of training directors. But what I would like to say a few words about the next two amendments. The first relates to increasing molecules for children from families with very low incomes. To date, a four - member family, who had an income of up to 12,000 euros, took five molecules, increasing it to six molecules. It's a big raise. One extra molecule sounds minimal, but in this way, if we had, for example, last year's figures, there would have been five hundred sixty more people than we have now. You know, relocations are a very complicated matter. In some parts there is too many people legally, but we too often go beyond the law, trying, especially for children with major health problems, to be somewhat more favourable, that is, that the parts in which they are introduced may exceed 15% of the law. However, with this amendment, we are strengthening family children with low incomes, just as we did last year, and the relocations of the brothers. Now I come to the subject of the Sharia, you remember that a law had been passed in the House from all the wings of the House, except for the Golden Dawn. I will not repeat the reasoning of the law. I will note, however, that we said at the time that the entry into force of the law would be after the Presidential Decree was published. For the contents of the Presidential Decree, we have set up a committee for which all parties have indicated representatives. This committee has been convening for some time. This delayed the formulation of the text of the Presidential Decree, which has now taken its way to the Council of State. In the meantime, the law of optionality, which we have all voted on together, was not applied as the Presidential Decree was expected. We propose that it be applied after its publication in the Official Journal of the Government, pending the Presidential Decree. After all, nothing changes in the application of the law, except in the modernisation of the mushrooms. These are the amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we would like to start by denounce this last minute's industry of tabling amendments and, indeed, at night. These are amendments which are not of a formal nature, but which also concern essential issues. I would like to start with one of that, because it is a question on our part. What are you trying to do, for example, with Amendment No 1775/265? In the explanatory statement you say that, with a view to financial stability and to reducing uncertainties, you give the opportunity to provide data to interbank companies managing economic behaviour data files. You give the right to legal persons of the public, i.e. IKOs, municipal companies, EKOs, PPCs, to provide information on how all kinds of bills are paid from the public layers, even for municipal fees. We ask this: is this a means of pressure from the people's strata so that they can pay back debts on red loans? If that is the case, we believe that this amendment should be withdrawn. I'm coming to the bill now. First of all, it is not surprising that all the rapporteurs have so far referred mainly to the third part concerning the other provisions of the bill. And I'm saying it doesn't surprise us, because in the first two parts of the bill, you all agree, and the government and the opposition parties. The first part of the bill relates to central securities repositories and contains regulations, which are essentially what they do? They shall liberate the services provided by central securities repositories as securities settlement bodies in accounting format throughout the European Union by abolishing the state monopoly. Greek legislation is adapted to that of the European Union, an adjustment which is necessary to function uniformly in the overall model of intangible securities throughout the European Union. Such an adjustment is necessary because our country's repository system must take into account the new liberalisation measures imposed in this area by the European Union, which aim to increase the safety and efficiency of the repository system, to make it more rational and therefore more competitive in all European Union countries. Why is this necessary and to whom? They want to create a single framework throughout the European Union, in which these arrangements will be made and each investor, in which the European Union is able to invest in European securities. In this direction they want to clear the way from any obstacle to the action of capital because, as you know, there is so far no uniform regulation on rights in securities, and these are defined by the laws of the Member States, which of course differ from one country to another. If one takes into account that cross-border holdings and transfers of securities will increase in the coming years, it is important that there should be clear rules on capital among investors relating to ownership of securities held in accounts held by central securities repositories. What else, in our opinion, is he trying to do? He wants to shape conditions for the Greek securities market to become more attractive to foreign investors, foreign funding funds, but also to businesses, locals and foreigners, seeking solutions to dismantle their securities for better access to such funding mechanisms. This is an attempt to do so by more generally promoting the liberalisation of services provided by central securities repositories by abolishing, as I said at the outset, the national monopoly of the Central Repository of Values as a manager of the intangible securities system, a matter that has to do with the development of competition. It also introduces a substantial difference with the current legislative framework. What's the difference? It establishes the collective accounts that can now be used - because so far there has been no such possibility - and through these investors' accounts to operate on the Greek Stock Exchange. It is therefore clear that here we are not dealing with a simple adaptation of the legislation of the European Union and the modernisation of the Greek legislation, but with substantial measures that further liberalise the action of capital and facilitate the free movement of capital in the European Union's single capital market. The aim of such arrangements, what is it? They first want to strengthen the stock market, in particular the purchase of intangible securities, the most aggressive speculation of capital. They seek to increase the concentration of monopolistic financial groups that are active in the industry, ensure their profitability and strengthen their position in the intra-imperialist competitions that are evaporating, strengthen the possibility of those who hold money and who are parasites, that are reliant on goodwill produced at the other end of the world, from where they have placed their capital. Well, this is the modern monopolistic capitalism of share capital ownership in the means of production. The bill, however, is not just left to them. In Chapter 2, for example, measures are adopted to strengthen firms. For example, arrangements are introduced to allow the use of dematerialisation services and non-listed enterprises or as in the Fourth Chapter introduce specific rights for investors, where their securities are held by means of comprehensive accounts for the protection of investors against the risks of bankruptcy or other insolvency of the Ombudsman. The workers and the people's layers that are listening to us let them think about who is concerned with these issues that are regulated by this bill. They relate to credit institutions and other financial institutions that are related to the maintenance of securities, securities issuers, companies that invest in securities, market operators in securities, investors and, in general, the capital market. They also concern enterprises seeking financing through the issue of securities and their disposal to the public, listed enterprises and those making use of the intangible system, without the introduction or use of such funding. Finally, it concerns enterprises that can operate abroad and are linked to the Greek market in the context of the use of registration services that the national central repository can provide. The only people who are not concerned are the workers and the populace. Of all the above, the conclusion of who you care about and who you legislate about is unsatisfactory. The arguments put forward about supposedly regulating the market, transparency of transactions and limiting speculation are simply an attempt to manipulate and disorientate the people from the main. You are interested in capitalist development, and in this direction you are important to investors who invest in securities, but also other capital that invest in it. Your interest is focused on enterprises seeking financing by issuing securities and making them available to the public in listed enterprises, but also those making use of this intangible system to introduce or use such funding. Finally, what you are particularly interested in is tools that play a central role in capitalist development, such as investments and capital profitability, that is, what you are interested in is credit institutions and investment firms and, more generally, the financial institutions that operate in our country. The second part of the draft law with the proposed provisions harmonises Greek legislation with the Directive of the European Union 2258/2016, a directive on compulsory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. This is not the first time that various Imperialist organisations, such as the European Union, the OECD World Forum, the G20, have decided on various actions, and in the context of these actions they seek to modernise legislation with a view, they say, to combating tax evasion and tax evasion. As a Communist Party we have sometimes formulated similar efforts to integrate directives of the European Union and to modernise legislation that all this interest of the European Union and the other imperialist organisations and all the parties of the Euromodal road is hypocritical. And that's why? Since you have accepted the four freedoms of Maastricht - the freedom to move capital, goods, services and workers - since the hunting of the maximum rate of profit is the pursuit of capital, you will have very little effectiveness, whatever measures you take. Of course, you are all saying to all of you that you want to hit tax evasion. For years now a number of measures have been announced that would be supposed to combat it. A number of European Union directives have been incorporated. However, experience has shown that as many times as such measures were announced, in practice what we had was a further escalation of the tax raid in the popular layers. So the fight against tax evasion was mainly used as a pretext. This was because the liberalisation of capital movements created more favourable conditions for tax havens. On the other hand, all these rules, the various European Union directives are designed in such a way that they do not hamper development or investment, in order not to create competitive disadvantages for Union enterprises, as well as to minimise the costs for the administrative burden on businesses. This directive may establish access to the tax authorities of each Member State to the mechanisms, procedures, documents and information on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing, as you yourself say on page 14 of the explanatory statement. However, what remains particularly in the unavoidable once again is the legal and provocative tax exemptions of capital paid by the people on a wild tax raid. In short, the tax policy of the European Union and all the Greek governments so far has been serving precisely this fundamental strategy of aid in every way of making capital profit. At the same time as you are legislating to exempt capital from taxes and duties, with - within the introductory - 'development' and a large number of other laws on provocative tax exemptions, subsidies and aid to business groups, such as the SYRIZA - ANEL government, at the same time pillow the poor people's income with unbearable direct and indirect taxation, a reduction in wages and pensions, and the abolition of social rights. The working people must end up with the mockery of fair burden-sharing capitalism, claiming the socialisation of monopolies and the wealth that they produce. As there is no time to refer to the third part concerning other provisions, we shall refer to specific articles that we disagree with in this part of the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u96	Me too, Mr. Vardalis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st General High School of Pefkis (second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before giving the floor to Mr Papachristopoulos, Mr Petropoulos will be speaking for five minutes in order to develop his amendment. Immediately after that, Mr Papachristopoulos will take the floor. Here, Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for five minutes from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say something that I think all the wings will understand in the same way. We must allow it not to be lost by OLAF, and in the meantime, it has not become the organogram that is to be organised, as has the digital organogram, so that the OLAF can also accept members with mobility. Because there's no organogram, they're just leaving and they're not getting the FBI. EVA is the first to leave and move staff to other bodies. This is a hundred and twenty-five, the first case of submission of applications and two hundred and fifty-four the second time. To say that, it's three times in the table compared to the second largest operator in executive outflows. In fact, because about 44% is of university and technological education from the staff who serve in the ECA and the EIB, you realize that in the series that are leaving with mobility, they are mainly leaving staff of this category of university and technological education. And it's an organization that needs specialization, they're people with specialization, they don't make pensions any employee needs to have knowledge. This makes it very difficult for us to complete our efforts towards the shorter issue of pensions to the Greek people, after so many delays that have occurred since the past. That is why I would ask you to accept this amendment from all sides. It is a question of proper management on the basis of the needs that have arisen in the area of insurance. That is what I want to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u98	Thank you for the brief. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I was pleased to hear the Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, who takes serious account of the economic situation of some students, because it is a request which has almost acquired enormous proportions. Very few families can support a second home except for their normal home and I think that moleculosis is in the positive direction to move these students close to home. The second point concerns the draft law, which we have said a great deal in the Committees, we believe that the new amendment, apart from the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the EBRD, ELSTAT, the Legal Board of State, the Deposit Fund and the Securities and Market Commission, will also be the officials of the Court of Auditors and I think they deserve it. I would also like to highlight a point from this bill which, in my opinion, is very important. Our country has been afflicted by corruption and a string of decades now. Access is therefore granted by the tax authorities to all information: banking, equity, insurance, and even insurance, as part of the fight against dirty money laundering. A former Minister believes he has new problems with this story. It is characteristic that the tax administration will have access to the register of actual beneficiaries, which all public limited companies are obliged to keep. I do not want to make any more comments on this bill, for which we are almost entirely in agreement. It's in a positive direction. However, because economic issues are topical, I consider it appropriate to mention the following, because we are not here with any bureaucratic group, I think the news is burning, it is what all citizens are hearing and waiting for us to hear an opinion. So there's just one thing about the bank shares. I would like to say this: it is a first issue in the press and I just want to remind you of a few features to see whether or not this supposedly terrible concern about bank shares is justified. I would therefore like to remind you: In addition to the fact that macroeconomic indicators in the country are positive, for example, unemployment has declined - not very much, but has declined - it has dropped below 20%, confidence indices are also positive for the whole country. In general, there is an improvement in almost everyone's economic indicators. I do not want to remind you that 15.1% was the deficit at first, 2009 and today is a surplus, small, but it is a surplus. I could say too much. What matters to the banks is that some time ago, in May, the stress tests for the banks were all positive. I would also like to remind you that capital adequacy indicators were also positive. Even the red loans that everyone knows, everyone believes they are a problem, exceeded the target in the first half of 2018. In other words, there was a positive move there, even though red loans exist. Deposits increase month after month. Some people are sad, but the figures are turning billions back to the banks, it is a fact. The ELA, the exceptional liquidity support mechanism of the banks, has led to a zero rate for two banks and is ready to zero for two more. Is this all about being a little weird? I'd say no. An agency, the "Bloomberg", and sometimes it has run tests. But there is not only the Bloomberg. There is also Morgan Stanley. There are others who have a completely opposite view. Is that something to worry about? I'm sure we're taking this into account. But I believe - and let me be exposed - that you will soon see that this situation is corrected. And when I say soon, I think it might not take a week to see this. We asked a question to those in danger. Does the view of the Exchange correspond to the real picture of the banks and the economy? Tell me about it. I say no. I never play Stock Exchange, like many of you here. No one's playing, maybe. Is it happening a lot? Too often. In fact, they use nice words, such as 'correction' and something like that. I want to believe that this issue will be resolved very soon. They refer very much to 4% - about - for the ten-year bonds. It really isn't the best possible. But we all know that there is a soaring wound called the 'Italian economy'. It's not the Greek economy. I told you what's going on in the Greek economy. Symbol, at globalisation level, one economy draws on each other. No one triumphed. Calm down. Very soon I think that will be corrected as well. I would also like to remind you that recently the American Trade Minister officially informed the Prime Minister of the US Ministry of Finance's consent to the EBRD administration so that the latter would extend its investment activity to Greece by 2025. The amount? About two billion. I still want to remind you of a few things that I think play a part. Yesterday, you know, he quietly passed a bill. But it's something I live with. And they live it on the islands. We've been through, you know, a water bill. Greece is an island country. Insularity has been underestimated. I'm not saying that some of them have no fate in the sun. I mean, if an emergency happens, they can't handle it. Years ask for water, especially islands that have no airports and which are difficult to do. For a hundred years, I have been telling you since 1920, this story had begun. They ruled, they ruled again. But this government is currently raising the word 'development'. Because that means the hundred new that can be done. And starts in 2019. It's not simple. We're not bureaucrats. Something's going on in this country. And I mention it because I think that in the words of the press "go away, go where you came from, you are the most vulgar government, you are the worst government" the answer is: evidence. I also think it is appropriate to say this: Civic Opposition should be careful. He was arrested too many times to say inaccurate. I'm very careful in my expressions. What did we hear? That since 1.6 billion people ate money. And the European Union comes out in the most official way and says: 'No, there is no such thing.' And we heard that "the ancients go to the superstate, sell it, sell the Acropolis". And he's laughing, of course, every bitter man. The last disguise of this officer's counterpopulation was pensions and taxfree. In the most official way, therefore, not only did Sentinel, not only Moscovisi, but Reglin himself, said: "Children, it is not a structural measure, it is a budget. It doesn't affect us. Grab 3.5% and finish." The retired people can hear it, because it's over a million and a half years old, and they can't hear false news from morning till night, fake news. I'm sorry to raise the tons. That's about people poor. So pensions are not cut. What can we do? Some people are sad. Because they've started to swallow that, the new argument is that it's a temporary measure. No, it's not temporary. It's not a postponement, it's a cancellation, it's a definitive cancellation, and let me be exposed. I still want to highlight two points, and I always talk with evidence. We have never heard of the waiver of immunity of a Member of Parliament for six hundred thousand owed to the Greek State. We have never heard before, and for the first time we hear that another MP is suing a multinational because he is allegedly shaking him. Novartis, you know, is a colossal unbelievable who has admitted what he does. She's admitted them, and she's worked with the FBI for what she's doing. I don't know if it's a despair move. I hope this Member will be vindicated, but I fear it is a despair move. I would also like to refer to a fact that is very fresh and recent, because I hear the Qualified Opposition every day calling for elections. They went up to the tiles again because what happened at the Stock Exchange. 'Elections now'. Yeah? What for? Listen a little. I have the evidence in front of me, and I always talk with evidence. I'm very careful. There are two findings. I am in the CEDEFOP Committee, Henry Dunn and Novartis. It's all financial. Economical is the bill. We ask to see what economic status is and how people understand it. We've got two findings. One is the mixed scale of administrative control by the General Inspector for Public Administration, Mr. Papaspyrous. The other - take care of it - is the corruption prosecutors for the CEDEFOP, which also makes use of the finding of a mixed scale of control. We've got these, we've seen them. I don't want to say any more. Some feel that the cord is tightening around their neck and I believe that they do not react calmly. They react a little desperately. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] I'm done. I don't want to say any more. Of course, we agree with the bill and all the amendments and we will vote in favour. I just want to remind you again that this country didn't deserve to go bankrupt. This country - it is not an exaggeration - those who really love it and have honoured it will say that it is the planet's "file" in every respect, geographical, geopolitical, whatever you want. It was not worth all citizens losing one quarter of their property. For those who do not remember and have a weak memory, the country was taken bankrupt and a huge effort is being made. In this effort, I say we all need it. I do not think all parties are all the same. There are few people who have made irregularities, not to say a little heavier. I think the effort from now on must be shared. The country must come back. If I referred to the waterways, sit down and think. Many such moves have been made lately and with this bill, the country will become normal again. It is a duty for all of us, as it is a duty for all of us if our mother, our brother, our child, has been illegal, to distance ourselves largely from people who say they are our friends or who belong to the same party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. I would like to inform the House that only two speakers are on the list. After both the parliamentary representatives and the Minister have spoken, I think we will conclude the meeting soon. Mr. Psarian has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. There has been an entire debate for some time now since August on the exit from the memoranda - the famous one - to return to the implementation of the popular will by various groups and from a set of small and larger groups, on the fair demands, on the acquired assets and everything, that we are finally returning to national sovereignty and not giving us directions, no one - say any word - blackmailer, loan shark, lender, who obliges us to impose unfair measures which we do not want, which is why we are imposing even more unfairly than those imposed on us. Luckily, this is over now. We're coming out of the memos. This is where I have to put an asterisk to say that from the memoirs, we're not dating. They stop running away, or they stop funding. We have to implement what we have voted and decided to do literally. They save the burden of having us like the little one, the inappropriate one, which has to correct things as these blackmailers, the trishal guys, the Mercedes and all of them, who have forced us to do various stories, which are very unfair. It is things that we have had to do for ten, twenty, thirty, forty years throughout, not post-multi-population, because it is not forty years of re-civilisation, it is from the post-civilisation until today. The Municipalisation was only from '74-75, until the '77 elections. From that point on, it is a normal period when the country has had to adapt to the conditions imposed on you by your association with the other European partners in relation to cooperation, the Greek legislation and the Greek systems have to be differentiated and more legitimate with the European whole and all these things. These are things that all previous governments should have done. None of us have done exactly what it had to do and now come up to the wave of populism, to denounce and abuse these Europeans, so it'switched 'em' and'show 'em' until we do the fucking pirouettes and start and sign, we vote much harder than they are asking. Fortunately, however, the whole tragic period of the memorials, the "Erea", the "Erealyed terms" and the rest, what we are used to hearing and saying, is over, so we can do what we want. So we won't expect anyone - not to say a word again - to tell us whether to cut or not to cut. We will not cut pensions, and we will even be assimilating pensions upwards to those who have received two, three and four pensions and have still not been reduced. We're talking about pensions for grandparents and grandparents who took 400 euros to make them 320 euros until they wait to die. We, therefore, because we have popular sovereignty, national independence and have come out of the memoranda, will not cut pensions, Mrs Merkel and gentlemen of the European nomenclara, etc. We're not going to cut off any pensions. We will give pension increases and bring the wages back where they were, everyone and not at 751 euros. Because national sovereignty is now stronger than it was before, we will make the basic salary of EUR 1,000 and of EUR 200 bonuses for each one with a clean hands. You know, it's these allowances that gave early attendance to the service. "Take a hundred! What time are you leaving? One hour later, and you've gone three hours earlier, because someone else has hit your card, etc.Huh? Take four hundred." So we will do everything ourselves, because we like it and because we have national independence and we are not hanged by anyone - not to say this word that I wanted to say two, three times before and starts with 'n'. This is the story, this terrible popular tale about 'cafenobians','naive', 'wageless', fans, hooligans of various groups and parties, for the omnipotents - whether with 'the' or 'the' - I don't care. I was not 'neutral' or 'inferior' to anyone - much more, of course, 'inferior'. This is the modern Greece that has dropped unemployment because it gives wages to a seasonal, fragmented job. He's getting the other 120 euros, sort of like an extractor, but he's coming out of the unemployment tables. It's no longer, we've dropped unemployment! We can do all this without integrating into our legislation the European directives that give us. What do we want with this? Let's send them all back. 4225/1996 and 3264/2012. Take them. We'll do our own system. What directives are we to incorporate, ladies and gentlemen, the European nomenclara. These words are very nice. We talked about them and sucked them for years. And we went up to the surf on the wave like world champions. We've got power. We gathered all the teams from PASOK, New Democracy, all the fences of SYRIZA, the coalition, groups. We've all gathered together, and we've all made a bulb that settles customers. And now we're gonna incorporate instructions? Why? We have national independence, we have a people's government elected from all sides. It's a first-time left-wing government, but there's both the right and the PASOK and the Right-wing. Everything's in it together. So you are expressing the entire Greek people and the clienteles of all these parties of the conflict, so we are going to make our programs from now on. We'll appoint the rest of our nephews and Huey and Dewey and Lewis we haven't assigned yet. We'll appoint cousins, best friends, girls, dancers, what we can, until there's any elections, and we'll get any percentages, and we'll rebuild. That's nice. It's very nice, Greek people. Here we have a draft law that comes under the urgency procedure again, to regulate various things that are made up of three parts. The first and second is the adaptation of Greek legislation to European regulations. What we had to do now is have them kicked in the head. We should say: 'Let us go. We don't incorporate anything, we don't change anything. Our things will build and leave what you know, gentlemen of the prefecture." In the first and second part, then, we have one. We germans, docs and Euromono street fans - lacking in the JRC - will vote for the first and second part. And if our people denounce and choose a next government that is even more progressive and left than the current left-wing left-wing left-wing, we will all unite together in the destiny of the tribe, etc., etc. This is all about the incorporation and adaptation of Greek legislation and regulations in relation to the instructions sent by these nomenclades - let me also shout a little, not only by Papachristopoulos - who lead the people to tolerance, while the people have their own systems and teams that can be arranged in universities, health, welfare, appointments, rosphetia, in all areas and can proceed alone to the destiny of the tribe and do not need instructions from any "ker". - not to say that word again for the fourth time. In the third part we make such arrangements of national independence and give money ahead of elections, allowances, flight allowances to pilots who do not fly. The frogmen get allowances, the different from the Armed Forces who do hard things. In fact, they take 700 euros, 800 euros, 1,000 people who may lose their lives the next day because they are not sitting in an office scratching. They do very wild and tough things. A large part of my old comrades when they hear Armed Forces or their uniforms raises blood on their head because they are considered to be a special treatment. They have no special treatment in relation to what they do! However, when you give allowances to the pilots of Civil Aviation or the Armed Forces or the judiciary or to various special charges that are considered more equal than the others - because we are all equal except for some who are even more equal - so when you give such allowances, for example, pilots, you give them to pilots. You don't give them to those who say or were pilots sitting in an office, and they may not go, but they will receive a flight allowance. Why? Because someone has asked us to take care of this area of workers and employees, and we have to take care of it because we have learned that there is something in the kitchen over there. Such categories of workers and workers are very many, in all regions, and together they are the whole of the Greek people. We must therefore give an allowance to the entire Greek people, who fly does not fly, the flight allowance needs it. Just like the donkey. Is the donkey flying? It doesn't fly, but let's get a flight allowance, people aren't lost. That's the kind of arrangements we have. I do not want to say in detail one - one - and the articles and the amendments and the amendments. As far as the amendments are concerned, four amendments are again being tabled. By the time we finish the conversation, twenty-seven have come. Yesterday, let's say, three came to our seat. We had two amendments to the committees, which came to the end of the committees following the hearing of bodies, one of which we had only discussed in a way and quickly - on the standing - and then they came here - the paper was warm, you could not catch it, as soon as it had come out of the oven - two more, three amendments. You couldn't even read them for fun. What can we vote on these amendments? One wants to take care of changes or normalization areas and bring them in and shove them. We have one, for example, of an agreement with Kuwait to breathe alternately, some of them, a little bit of us. The agreement is fair, we are coming, we are voting, we are signing it, and behind it there are some amendments that stick, they are putting benefits under the table, on the other hand, on the other hand, which we do not know whether the European Union and the euro area will accept, but we will now vote and may not give them if the nomenclara does not leave us. First of all, we need to get rid of this. I'll say it again for the fifth time. We're free. We're out of the memorials, we're assembling them, we're done. We'll do whatever we like. We have such arrangements. For example, ninety people were burned in Matty. Instead of looking for responsibilities, we veiled the story under the burnt and swept it down on the grounds that it was something arbitrary there. But in Buja, it wasn't arbitrary, nor is the whole Eye arbitrary. Half Eye is legally poured, its piece, as we see the sea, left, towards Agios Andreas, towards Marathon. The jungle in the Eye has arbitrary and within the ravines, which is why people burned up there and couldn't get out into the sea, because we had let the houses and villas and the legal or illegally acquired seaside lands dams toward the world, and there were some pathways like these that were some little rugs, which became stepping stones to get people out into the sea. There the world boasted, the half burned there, and those who caught it, the twenty-six, came out on that land the cursed and the people burned there, above the rocks of the sea. This, of course, is to demolish the arbitrary and settle the uses of land, the land register, the tariff, to settle all the things that the vast right and the improper "solent" etc. Let's take care of them now that we're in things. And we'll really start and tear down the arbitrary ones. So far, as far as I know, they have been demolished around a million and a half arbitrarily since the fire and destruction took place in Matti and Kinetta and Buja. The day before yesterday I saw youTube, there they've uploaded it, demolished one of the things that are demolished by themselves as soon as it blows. There went some bulldozers there and they scanned it. Do we really want to settle things and not teams and do tricks? Let's do it. No one disagrees, only some people who are enlightened with this system up to now of state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art and settlement. I said yesterday that Stadium - a flagship road not only of Athens and Attica, but of the whole country - is a dead road. Left and right there's no open shop, there's no company that works. There's nothing. It's a dead road. What's there? Only public services and bodies and branches of public services and ministries on high floors. They prosper. We've been drinking the blood of every poor man who's torn apart to have a little shop to get us pimps with 80% of the participation in the buffalo's shop, we're drinking the blood to appoint Hughie, Lewis, Dewey, Caracosta and Papavaglou because they're our best friends. This is the system of Katapaliadistan that wants to become the European Union, while it is a Somalia that is geographically part of Europe and bears a heavy burden that belongs to Europe, because it is the cursed nomenclauura, the dirty Europeans, who will tell us what we are going to do! And he denounces the troika that a troika built this country. The revolution of 1821, which we are talking about for national independence, and I am upset, is a fairy tale they sell to the world. Rebellions began in the previous century by the Friends and failed. The Revolution of 1821 crashed. By 1827 the country was swively, a cranial place. In the Peloponnese, there was no resident, we were destroyed. And Navarin's troika came in for her own interests, and made this land. He found the best Greek governor who existed and brought him to rule the Greek state, Kapodistrias, and we cleaned him in a year and a half. Since then, we've been struggling. We get loans, 'we eat', we owe, we give nothing, we sell smugs and cheeks. It's all foreigners' fault, and we're an unjust person, some waffles that humiliate us and drink our blood, and these "kers..."... I won't say it for the fifth time. It's all their fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Fisherman, I remind you you're in eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u103	Yes, Mr. President. It was foreigners who were responsible for the civil war, for the Cyprus problem that the foreigners were responsible for the junta, for the Asia Minor disaster, for the loss of 1897 the foreigners were to blame. For all the suffering that has been done in the country, it was the foreigners' fault. And these were called left-wing, right-wing, center-centred, pussies, and they still sell this fairy tale. And this fairy tale as it is sold and eaten by "cannabis", all these sellers, from all sides, will make a collapsing like the one we have, and we are glad to get the country out of the memorials, and the devil has sent the horns to strangers. I say it at the end. Thank you. We shall vote for the first and second part, for the third we reserve, and we shall go to 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Last of the rapporteurs and special speakers, Mr Cavalellas. Then we have two speakers and the parliamentary representatives, the Minister and we move on. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. The Central Association, as Mr Psarian mentioned about foreigners, says it is our fault. It is your fault as you ruled, and we should have predicted and corrected things long before others came and showed us how. Today we'll talk about finances. It's a great challenge to the budget, as you bring it. I've never seen a budget, which is cowardly. And "we'll cut you off pensions", look right and "we'll never cut you off pensions", look left. We will all enter the "bed of Profrust" until the seventies die to save the budget and the government. Today, then, we will, in principle, discuss last-minute amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, firstly, the central securities repository, secondly, the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of the EU directive 2016/2258 and other provisions and thirdly, the other provisions of the Ministry of Finance. The Centro Association is the party that believes in convergence of the legal framework of economies and other services within the countries of the European Union and is presenting itself positively in any attempt to achieve convergence. We are seriously concerned, however, with your regular practice of involving other issues in every bill, such as amendments, arrangements for flying people who do not fly and various other tax exemptions and taxation regulations. There are also issues which concern us, such as the transfer of ten thousand tens of nineteen real estates, which have been placed outside the memorandum in the bucket of creditors' demands. What happened? What kind of consensus was there? We'll give you these properties, will you give us the pensions? I don't know why, but they went out of memorials, they went in with our own goodwill, we put it all together. There were no exceptions in the first place, things became so hasty. where the same bucket and archaeological sites were placed. You gave us, of course, an explanation later on. With later decisions you removed some codes, but we do not know what these codes represent. Who knows which properties will be excluded once and in the FEK of the decision, as I said, coded and no one can know the matches of the titles, has to look a long way to find the end. However, once again, and while Parliament's Legislative Committee was ready to vote for this bill - it has been in your drawers for a year and a half - and it has been a necessary condition for this incorporation into Greek legislation to move forward, to be conversant with Europe - it was an obligation of direct interest to our partners, because this creates a credible framework for the settlement of securities - you, as always, without any evaluation, have been bringing it forward at some point at some point in time, to vote. In practice, according to the bill, after the vote any investor can invest in European securities on the basis of rules and procedures which comply with the same laws for all Member States of the European Union that have engulfed the relevant legislation. There are, of course, some contradictions and ambiguities. Are there any strange processes and reasonable reasons to ask how the time to acquire rights in relation to collective accounts is determined? The securities repository at the time of the transfer is marked at the time of the transaction, while the collective accounts at the time of the change do not have any time marking, is not at the time of the transaction. It would be even more difficult to monitor acts similar to those of foreign repositories. There's another issue that you need to take seriously. We will draw your attention to the need to support the stock exchange, because the securities depository will deprive it of portfolios and operations. That's where we all have to put our backs. Going to tax matters, we have to take note of the clandestineness with which you are legislating, unfairly making part of the citizens. In accordance with Article 36, therefore, and due to the requirements of the memorandum, you are obliged to pay taxes immediately. The legislation does not cover all cases, however, since only cases until the publication of the CVT are included. Let the rest of them go and find their point. Our objections to the injustice attempted by Article 38 are strong, where there is provision for EVH exemptions only for the deceased. As if the deceased have a greater need than the many traumas that the drama continues. Make some extension on the pensioners. These multiracials, the multiracials, those who die in two, three, four months, in one year, because their health has been seriously shaken, the others who lost everything, those who have not been in residence for years and who will pay for HISH, will go there to see some pillars left and then go to taxi to touch them. We call for an extension of the benefit in any case, as described above, namely, to people who have suffered great financial damage, have lost their home, to the injured, to the burners, and for as long as they have been in trouble, that is to say, even if they have permanent health damage. Because of the state's misfunction these people have been destroyed because of our actions. There are, therefore, people who have permanent health damage, are unable to repair the property, which has been burnt, destroyed and do not have the money - and in a time of crisis - to carry out this work. You will have to bring back a number of amendments in cold blood again. At some point the logic must be reversed. Nevertheless, we will accept the challenge for the benefit of the citizens. Unfortunately, we also have to play this game as you put it in the game. We, as we have repeatedly said, go along with the law and oppose unfairness. That is why we shall say yes to Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1763/260/2-10-2018. It concerns the regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and it includes three different regulations. The first regulates the adaptation of the service councils to the new establishment plans of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The second provides for greater moleculosis in student relocations for vulnerable economic groups. The third relates to the question of subjecting Muslim Greek citizens to the Greek civil courts, to their family and hereditary affairs, if one of the two parties does not want to be subject to the jurisdiction of the mufit. For us it is a matter of applying the principle of equality to the law of all Greek citizens, and in particular their right to bring them to justice on equal terms, without discrimination of sex or religion. It is a good provision for Muslim women, who under the sacred law of the Sharia would have less rights than men if there were any discernment. As far as Amendment No 1770/263/10-2018 is concerned, we will not be pleasing to you. It concerns the amendment of Article 8 of Law 4053/2012. It provides for the extension for two more years, for 2016-2017, of the coverage by the State budget of part of the universal postal service compensation verified by the National Telecommunications and Post Committee net cost of providing it. Additional expenditure is being caused in the state budget of EUR 30 million, now, in such difficult times. For the other amendments that have just come, we do not have much to say. Perhaps until the vote we have a better picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much Mr Cavadela. Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association. Immediately after that it is Mr Carras and then the Minister will take the floor, so that we can continue with the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for three years now, since the beginning of the parliamentary part of the history of the Union of Centres, we have been insisting firmly on the need for political stability, and at every opportunity we reiterate the social demand for political cooperation, parliamentary consensus and national consultation. For three years we have not been tired of presenting the same argument, namely that, in order to overturn what was unacceptablely imposed on the Greeks, we need so many MPs who were those who voted against the Greeks' will to continue the memorandums in August 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, stand by for a minute and think about the image we present as a Parliament. In the only thing that the Greek Parliament managed to achieve so high a consensus, it was in voting for the memorials of two hundred and twenty-five Members. The last time the majority agreed on something, it was August 2015, and this was the overthrow of the result of the only referendum that we did in forty years. This is the image that citizens see. They have every right, therefore, to believe that we are not able to work together for anything other than to be subjected to blackmail. Ladies and gentlemen, it took two hundred and twenty-five Members to impose the memoranda and it takes just a hundred and fifty one to implement them. Two hundred and twenty - five MPs and fifty - one MP manage them. How many people do you think they need to overthrow? Why don't we even dare in this Chamber ask ourselves how many Members are needed to overthrow the memorials? Unfortunately, what I understand is that we do not dare to open the debate on how things could be changed, because then we have to openly admit to the Greek people that what we know we have to do is the only thing we do not intend to do, namely to cooperate. Sadly, for as long as we do not manage to unite, days like yesterday’s will haunt our nightmares. Without political stability, the banking system is exposed to the appetites of all kinds of predators. I am now going to comment on some of the amendments that have found their way and have entered this bill. I shall begin with Amendment No 1763, and a specialist named 260 under the heading 'Adjustment of matters of competence of the Ministry of Education'. Acceleration of the process which makes the implementation of the Muslim law in our country optional, contrary to what was not acceptable until yesterday, until today, is a positive measure and moves in the right direction, as is every prediction, any provision that opens the door of the Greek courts to Greek Muslims and does not treat them as a foreign body. I have said and will say that the action of the Turkish consulate must be limited. One of the ways we can achieve this is to break the establishment of the sharia. Amendment Nos 1775 and 265 in its second part provides for the extension of the categories of legal persons authorised to receive confidential information and information from persons entrusted with the powers or duties of the tax administration. This amendment, Minister, must be explained in detail to the Greek citizens. It can't be such an important thing to get through to the changeover. What exactly will be the case from now on? What rights of access do those who acquire these rights have with the one-night amendment? Who are they to know about us what the Greek State knows about us? I am convinced that you have a lot to explain with this amendment. I close my report with a reference to the articles in Part Three of the bill concerning the firemen in Eastern Attica. No-one disagrees, we have said so many times in this Chamber that we must stand by our fellow citizens who have been irreparablely affected. That is why I wonder why the Ministry of Finance has not proceeded with the adoption of a ministerial decision using the money that Mr Tsakalotos has collected for this very purpose in the account of his contribution. If the Minister wishes, if she has the kindness, let the House know how this money will be used in favour of our affected fellow citizens not only in East Attica, not only in Mandra, but also in general in all natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Karras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, the bill in itself is a technical one, and I think I cannot stand by it at the moment. Mr Koutsoukos has already said enough and colleagues will say. I am, however, in the well-known issue of the amendments. And I am doing this not to repeat the well-known remarks, that the Constitution or the Rules of Parliament are being violated, because of the inviolability of one of them, but I see that there are major problems and issues which also concern individual rights of the Greek Muslims, under an amendment which concerns matters of officials from the Ministry of Education and comes in and enters a third paragraph. Let me remind you that in January this year there was a change in legislation on the question of the jurisdiction of mufts for Greek Muslims. It has been settled - progress has been made at that time - that they can resort to ordinary civil courts, civil law, namely the ordinary law of all Greeks, in order to resolve differences in family and hereditary law. In fact, then, it was also raised that, because the right cannot be removed from the priesthood, the mute, to exercise judicial duties on those who wish to do so, he will undertake to judge the affairs of our Muslim compatriots, when both of them, in a joint declaration, will address him and seek to resolve the differences in family or hereditary law, on the basis of the sacred Muslim law. An issue was raised that the implementation of these provisions would begin when the presidential decree provided for in the new law was issued. Of course, Mr President, I am quoting and saying that I do not mention them to be heard by the Minister of Education - who has brought the amendment and has withdrawn - but I mention them to be recorded in the Minutes. The question was then raised whether it would be extradited and whether the presidential decree was intended to be issued. I had the impression that it was not the government's intention to resolve the matter soon, and that is why I tabled an amendment at the time, in which I said that if you really want to improve the position of these people, who are Muslim religion but Greek citizens, you should put in the bill a deadline within which the Presidential Decree will be issued, so that they know what rights they have. I then considered the Presidential Decree to be extremely urgent and extremely necessary for the following reason: the Presidential Decree would not be formal, but would define the procedural procedure that the moor would have followed when differences in the barren before him to apply the Sharia, namely matters which the Greek State should cover, because the procedural procedure, at least for legal persons, is a major issue for the protection of individual rights. I am tabling this amendment in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My amendment by the government is silent. We've moved on and left. Indeed, Mr Gavroglou said at that time, and it has been recorded in the Minutes, that we need to take a cut, one step, to address the political courts, because of our Muslim compatriots, 70% to 75% are addressed to the judiciary. I would also like to remind you that the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which said 'yes, to issue the Presidential Decree, is within the framework of the Constitution', but furthermore pointed out to Parliament and the Government that they should attempt to codify the sacred Muslim law, which is mainly unwritten and interpreted in the name of the mufts and thus does not defend equal rights, especially women and minors. It would therefore be a significant step forward. I come to the Chamber today and see an amendment from Mr Gavroglou, who says that the Presidential Decree has not been adopted, but those who want to go to the political courts. But how will 70% -75% of our Muslim fellow citizens addressing the moustache exercise their rights? It does not solve the problem of those who remain under the jurisdiction of the mute. It solves the problem of which procedural procedure, what rights will they have? I would discuss it for men, without disclosing gender and gender, but I would remind you that the sacred Muslim law has some provisions that often do not fit in modern times. It could then serve society and living or even Muslim religion. The divorce, which the husband asks with the sacred Muslim law, gives the woman the right for only three months to diet, is not to blame, and then she leaves her. About children: When children are underage, they have minimal protection for inherited rights. So we said we should get a class. So I come back to say that Mr Gabroglou is coming and tells us today that the presidential decree does not need it. That's what he says. Well, if we don't need it, I'm going back to see when it started. The Act was adopted on 8 January 2018. The draft Presidential Decree was launched on 28 August 2018 and put it under consultation, which ended on 7 September 2018. Why was he wasted so much time? Secondly, what is the need today to dismantle, to abandon those provisions which are necessary to determine the procedural rules to be applied by the judges? I have a suspicion - from the surrounding atmosphere, it's being discussed, it sounds, I don't know if it's accurate - that pressure is being exerted even for mufts. I must remind you that today the muft is designated as a supreme state minister and exercises his rights and duties, and religious and judicial duties. So if all these facts are linked, will we continue at the last point in Europe to apply uncodified saria, the non-registered one? I therefore think that this provision should not come from Mr Gavroglou today. For while at the time - and he mentioned this today in his speech - almost all of Parliament's wings voted this provision is now being abandoned and we are turning back. I do not want to believe that it is the result of pressure from international players. We've heard a lot lately. I just want to say, it is not appropriate for the Greek state, in 2018, not to have yet established individual rights of family and hereditary law for women and children of the families who religion the Muslim doctrine. I think, therefore, that if Mr Gavroglou wanted to bring in and support this amendment, he should at the same time have at least brought the deadline within which the Ministry of Education would be free to lay down substantive and procedural rules for protection. It has not done so and I think there are also pressures undercover here. We have heard about many changes which are threatened. Let's not say it yet, but we're waiting to see if my suspicion is confirmed or not. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The speech has been made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, for eighteen minutes. Immediately afterwards, we shall start with the parliamentary representatives, then we shall go to the seconds and we shall continue with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will begin with the submission of legislative improvements to the draft law that we are debating today. I shall refer to two, which are the most important. One is in paragraph 1 of Article 45 of the draft law. In the regulation on the personal differences of employees in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and Development is added, as are the employees on the Greek Financial Council and the Court of Auditors. In paragraph 2 of Article 46 there is an improvement for the Heads of State or Government who must attend the extrajudicial proceedings. In such cases, the Head of Service, the DU, is present before the Court at all stages of the proceedings, by means of a written declaration, sent by the Office's opinions to the Court's secretariat. In specific cases involving particular legal problems, the above-mentioned agency may request the appointment, as a representative of the Legal Council of the State or of a lawyer in first instance seats which do not operate an office of the Legal Council of State. The rest of the legislations are typical. I'm filing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u112	We're coming to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft legislation currently under discussion it is a central issue to adapt the framework for the operation of the central repository to the new European data. The aim is to adapt national law, as it currently operates, under the national monopoly of the central repository of values to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014. At the same time, other important provisions are introduced in the draft law concerning the further improvement of the framework for dealing with money laundering, new measures to strengthen fire-affected and other tax provisions. In particular, provision is made for the immediate reimbursement of the income tax on legal persons or value added tax on natural persons and legal persons up to the total amount of EUR 10,000 in cases pending on the date of publication of this Law. Cases for which a temporary correction of tax has been issued shall not be considered as pending. Let us see what we want to achieve with this provision. Enterprises acquire additional liquidity, while reducing the volume of red tape required, thus facilitating economic activity. At the same time, however, the right of the tax authorities to carry out samples at a later date, thereby safeguarding the public interest, is guaranteed. The auditors are also given the opportunity to get rid of many minor cases, focusing on tax return cases of over EUR 10,000 but also on other more important audits. This process also contributes significantly to reducing public debts to citizens. We repeat it, after the success of the earlier provision. We do not, however, permanently bring it, as the representative of the Civilian Representation has raised an issue, because we believe that in this case we are giving taxpayers the opportunity to try to get back under EUR 10,000 to avoid control. We don't want to consolidate this situation. We believe that, as long as the debts are reduced, they will be able to control them properly and will not have to do so in the next period. The next provision is in case of a transfer of property. It is envisaged that, if the citizen so wishes, the tax authority may withhold the total amount of the real estate tax or EVIA for all property, with no need for any arrangement. To date, a taxpayer who wants to transfer a property and has debts on property taxes from other property can only proceed to the transfer if he has made a adjustment of the remaining tax on his other property and has to produce the corresponding certificate. Let us see what we are doing with the proposed provision. In the transfer process, the amount of remaining taxes from other immovable property may be retained by the notary and attributed within an exclusive period of three days. This ensures that citizens' transactions and the interests of the public are guaranteed. Also, in this draft law, Directive 2016/2258 of the European Union is incorporated into Greek law. It establishes access to the tax authorities of each Member State to the mechanisms, procedures, documents and information of the Member States of the European Union in the fight against money laundering. In other words, the correct and uninterrupted application of administrative cooperation between Member States by means of automatic exchange of information and financial account beneficiaries on the basis of a global standard is ensured. In addition, in this bill, the government introduces other measures for our fellow citizens affected by the catastrophic fires in July, following a series of previous measures. In particular, it is planned to exempt from the 2018 HPAI for persons who died due to the summer fires for all of their property, irrespective of where the properties are located. It is also laid down that pensioners, whose pension is still settled and paid by the State and who have a main or secondary residence or are hosted, in accordance with Form E1 of the 2016-2017 tax declaration, in areas of the Attica region affected by the fires, will receive from the State similar financial support to that of the pensioners of the ECA, i.e. two gross monthly pensions of July 2018 under the same procedure. Finally, the provision of the bill corrects a significant wage inequality involving a branch of officials from the Ministry of Finance and the legal systems that we are now doing and the Ministry of Economy. In particular, those officials serving at the Ministry of Finance or the supervised legal entities under public law, the ADP, the Court of Auditors, the budget, and the officials serving at the Ministry before 1 November 2011 are treated as wages. In particular, provision is made for all such officials to be granted the personal dispute referred to in Article 27 of Law No4354/2015, in accordance with the Constitutional principle of equality and given that they are officials who provide the same services and carry out similar tasks to those who served before the critical date. I would like to say at this point that the wage difference between workers from the same bodies who provided the same services, had the same tasks and had quite often the same qualifications - they may have had more qualifications - created an issue of injustice, leading to refusals to appoint, workers' resignations and a leak to the private sector, which in turn caused a great deal of trouble in the design and work of the ministries' and AIAE's services, in a number of cases, for the exercise of the tax administration, for checks and for the operation of public services. Thus, this provision corrects a wage injustice, which also contributes to the better functioning of the public administration. I would like to refer to the 65% exemption from flight compensation. Here we should stress that pilots from the Civil Aviation and the Civil Aviation Department receive it. It has been clarified and stressed that this concerns only those flying. It is not about any other workers in these services. It also shows that the name of the compensation is volatile. It can't be anything else. I shall also refer to the amendments we have tabled. The amendment by general number 1775 and a specific number 265 relates to the Electronic Register of Ships. I would like to say on this particular point that it had actually been legislated in 2014 by previous governments, but it had not been implemented. We are coming today and we are implementing it. They'll be recorded on this tour boats and pleasure boats. It's happening. Already at the moment, there are test entries in the ADP. It has become the specific record with the use of modern technology by employees of the General Secretariat of Information Systems, AIA and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, without resorting to a contractor. It is established in the AIA and will be updated with the cooperation of the citizens, the Ministry of Shipping and the Independent Public Income Authority. We believe it is another important function, which modernises public administration and contributes to the development of maritime tourism, a sector which is a comparative advantage to our country. It is considered that it creates a single and modern system for recording and monitoring tourist ships. All kinds of ships used for tourism and recreation will be mapped out, those used for private use, but also those for professional use in maritime tourism. We also achieve simplification of procedures for owners and those who are active in this area, but we also have the possibility, as an administration, to have statistics on the organisation, design, and our key maritime tourism policies. I would like to add to this point that the remaining recreational vessels and small vessels which are obliged to pay the fee for recreational and calendar ships will be registered in an electronic application that will operate in the AACC for this purpose. Also, in the next few days, we will also have the joint ministerial decision, which will take FEK, to implement the end of recreational and daily ships. It's something that's going on. It is an end that will broaden the tax base. It's done and it'll come into effect soon. The electronic register now comes to support the general planning of the Government for the development of maritime tourism. In order to do this, we need to modernise the public, to provide adequate support for human resources, public services and to adapt to technological changes. This amendment only brings what was necessary for the operation of the electronic register and that is why the legislative framework is being modernised, seeing its implementation as well. In Amendment No 1770 and in Amendment No 263 we come to amend Article 8 of Law 4053/2012, which established a transitional phase in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. We extend it to the years 2016 and 2017. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today's meeting is at a time when Greece is gradually taking but constant steps to get out of the crisis. The economic climate is improving day after day, which is illustrated by different elements that have been submitted lately. Unemployment in May was recorded in 19.5%, falling about eight points compared with 2013. And, of course, it does not fall to the level we are pursuing, but it is, of course, a clear fact that we have a reduction. Private consumption index is on an upward track, while our exports are showing a marked rise. This phase in which we are represented is reflected in the preliminary draft budget that we tabled on Monday. I have referred to it before, and I shall refer again to it. In the preliminary draft, it appears clear that there is the financial space to ensure that the pension cut measure is not implemented and, at the same time, to integrate the positive measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition for 2019. We understand the anxiety of counter-population, which makes technical arguments, as the government's objective of cancelling the pension measure seems to be achieved day after day. We recommend temper. We continue with the aim of getting out of the crisis and laying the foundations for the country's autonomous development, not only for the few but also for the social majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Panayotaros has the floor, shortly after the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Dendias, and then the proceedings will continue. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a small comment and to express a question about a report to the House on the hero Plubidis, which is presented to us as the great liberator of the city of Athens, etc. A post of "AGE" of the time - we do not know now whether or not you disprove it - of your newspaper, says that you blame Plubides, who by the way had been sentenced to death as an agent of the Soviet Union, that he was an agent of security. And you should finally decide what was from all of this, if it was an agent of the Soviet Union, an agent of security, or a popular hero, as you now say. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as this economic bill is concerned, this is being discussed the day after the expected 'financial slap' in the sick banking system, which shows us that the economy of this country is not just poor, but is not even a pyramid on clay feet. We see that the banks, which you think and say it is the backbone of the economy, which in years to time even the memorandum had taken state guarantees that touched 200 billion euros, in the years of the memoranda they took through the recapitalisations of around EUR 45 billion of state aid, lending money, while the Greek people with the Memorandum spit blood so that the failed bankers who led the banks into bankruptcy took their breath again and again. And not only that, but also rewarded by being appointed to other positions, by taking public jobs and all that. And of course at the end the Greek people, Greece, the Greek economy "payed the bride". These are the banks that are trampled both by the Constitution and by the laws, when it comes to small borrowers, as the State does not apply the laws, such as Article 95, which stipulates that the final judgments of the courts - and they are numerous in favour of borrowers - should automatically be regarded as state law and state law, that the central administration moves in this direction. Of course you don't. On the contrary, some extremely large 'harks', which received huge loans, never paid them, and on the way were unscathed, unscathed and virtually all of them unpunished. There has been a debate today by someone who has just heard about the illegal contribution made by Law 128/1975, of which a coin was collected, a very large sum. He wondered where this money is today, which could be given to firefighters or others who are in trouble. This money has been eaten for too long. This code has been used to close these holes that don't close with anything and nowhere. And here I take this opportunity to make a little comment on what Mr Mitsotakis said the other day - I do not remember where - who, in a heavy style, said that the New Democracy would hunt the poor payers and the battered ones who lived, live and reign against the Greek people. Of course we could also say to see, firstly, his party's finances. When he received, the New Democracy owed around 225 million euros, something maritime loans looking for a way to eliminate them. In addition to the 225 million, however, under the presidency of Mr Mitsotakis, New Democracy borrowed another 25 million and, of course, no guarantee at all, because it is practically impossible to repay all of this. Not to mention the loans of the "KERYKA OF CHANGES" etc. This draft law, in addition to financial provisions, articles, etc. and the chapter 'other provisions'. Some of them are firemen in Matty and Buja. We do not want to be a witness of negative developments, but, in judging by the damages that those affected in Mandra should have taken last year, but not three years ago, in 2015, and still have not taken them, and we see where all the damages suffered in Mandra last year are, we probably understand what will happen with the compensation of those affected in Mati, Buja and the other areas destroyed by this terrible fire a few months ago. I would like to make a small correction at this point. Our rapporteur in his amendment on mushrooms had to say that we were voting'residents'. He will, moreover, say so himself after the vote on the motion for a resolution. That was by mistake. Of course, we are talking about an economy that has no future, and we have told you many times, and the experts have told you - once you said it as Opposition - and with a tax of 40% and 45%, with insurance contributions of up to 26% of the revenue, with incredible bureaucracy, with taxes everywhere, with a situation in which no single professionals, small and medium-sized ones, the backbone of the economy, will ever have anything to do with anything you say, no matter what you do. You are constantly falsifying the statistics of other states, neighbouring states or states within the European Union, such as the sister country of Cyprus, in which, with a tax of 12.5%, they are constantly seeing business from around the world, establishing their companies there and the revenues of this country being launched. The same is true of statistics for Romania, a country that competes with Cyprus in the issue of fiscal indicators, in VAT and in everything we should have done here - although we want to see a white day - put them on the ground. Oh, no. But you, as a government, as a country, are constantly falsifying the world. Your last story is the exit from the memorials, with which of course you didn't convince yourself either. We have seen what has happened and what will evolve with the banks, and we see what is happening with various indicators. We saw a global indicator yesterday where we and Zimbabwe are together - if I am not mistaken - of economic freedom for what a businessman can do. Also, this famous last story of yours about the exit from the memorials, constantly day after day, dramatically disproves itself against Greek citizens, of course. We have seen the incredible, apart from Brain Drain, the fleeing of the new Greeks abroad, because here they cannot find jobs while they are out and can be restored themselves and their families, we have the departure now of the third year, there can be Greek citizens of the third age in northern Greece who can leave and live in Bulgaria, mainly near their homes, because they very simply have their everyday lives coming much cheaper and with the small pensions they receive, they can survive there, and of course there is no such case. Either way - we've said it before - if there's no nation, the economy won't tell us anything. We see your moods and the biggest national issue you are trying to close, the so-called 'popular' issue. With incredible intoxications at the expense of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, you want to do the grace of others and even without any consideration. You're tragic! You are neither good at geopolitical nor geostrategic, assuming that you put it above national issues. We see that you accept an agreement which, by 95%, is in the interests of our neighbours and against Greece, our interests, our northern Greece, our Macedonia and all those involved in it. Here we would like to say that in this case it is the United States which want to impose the closure of this conflict, anyway. Instead of you imposing, as Greece, the closure of the agreement in the way we want, by imposing a name that will not fly to the basket of the useless thousands of years of Greek history and not only, you accepted a name that serves the mutilation of our neighbours, you accepted Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian language, you accepted everything. You've opened the Cape and nobody knows when and how he's gonna shut down. The fact that the Greek foreign policy was opposed is that we expected the referendum to fail in Skopje, in order to break down this moderation at the expense of Greece, as it did. We had discernments between your government officials, who said that the referendum was a failure and others were successful. Mr Tsipras even sent congratulations to Mr Zaev. The Greek Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, with many questions - it is what is widely circulated in diplomatic living rooms - that Skopje has two Foreign Ministers and Greece has no one - to say "we will see, yes but". The essence is that you should have taken the initiative of moves in your hands, you have closed this national issue, which apparently touched all Greeks, in their vast majority and got them out on the streets. What they did not achieve more than three memorials, in the medium term, unbearable measures, HISPIA and everything else, you did it with this treacherous agreement, to make millions of Greeks on the streets, not only in Greece, but throughout the whole world. From everything they show, this world will come out again and again. It will not get tired of coming out until the desired, that is to say, there will be no betrayal and tradition of our Macedonian name. Imagine - and I close, Mr President - the dismantling of foreign policy to learn from the Skopje 'non paper' and from the leaks you wanted! Imagine how much you wanted this leak that showed Ms. Spirakis "the Vulture on the Back" to speak with the Prime Minister of Skopje and say theirs. You didn't want it, but anyone who had to read about what was said between the Skopje Prime Minister and the Chiefs of the Skopje Repression Party, who said it's easy for Tsipras, that Tsipras has not been sworn, so he has no problem saying other things here and there, Tsipras one, Tsipras the other. That's who you are! It was your dream, of course, in 1949 to sell out Macedonia. You didn't make it and you're trying it now. The sure thing is that now, once again, you will fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. The State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, has asked for the floor for a minute to make some clarifications. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Dendias will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u116	I will only need a minute, Mr President. I am sorry to take the floor again, but I did not support the amendment under a general number 1775 in its second part. Because questions have been asked, I say that so that we do not leave anything unanswered. As regards the amendment of Article 17 of the Code on Tax Procedure, in these cases the confidentiality is definitely the one that remains anyway. It is only done for the purpose of informing companies' files and not for other use and only data are provided, no further information is given. Only the information that can and can be obtained from the taxpayer himself is given. I will now tell you why all these facts are being given. First of all, this helps to keep a reliable record of companies with accurate information and reduces any harm to the operators in order not to lead to problems for them, not to take measures against individuals who do not have comparable economic characteristics, income, etc. Furthermore, the provision of such information is conditional on the submission of a fully reasoned request from the legal person concerned for the provision of specific registration information and on the service of the public interest. He doesn't hide anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u117	We thank the Minister for the clarifications. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr. Dendias, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am rarely concerned - I am starting with this - with the Golden Dawn, I am not eating my time. However, I can only observe the "Philippines" about the protection of Macedonia from a political space whose historical expression under Nazism and occupation handed Macedonia over to the Bulgarians. Macedonia's greatest national threat was Bulgarian occupation and Nazism gave Macedonia to the Bulgarians. So the representatives of Nazism come to Greece now and appear to ask for the change! Honestly, if no one has what we say 'golden fish' and listens to these things, no matter how much it has any sense of getting upset - because irritation also requires an assessment of the incumbent - it is actually a surprise to him for the way in which someone may speak in that country. Let me now refer to the most trivial. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have failed to wish us, because today is the birthday of the New Democracy. We fill in forty-four years of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u119	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u120	I'm sure you didn't do it intentionally. I have to say that it is very good that this is happening with a piece of legislation which is an adaptation of Greek legislation to a regulation and a directive, because historically New Democracy is proud of two huge achievements, the restoration of democracy, a modern European democracy, in 1974 by Constantine Karamanlis and Greece's entry into the European family by signing Constantine Karamanlis and George Rallis in 1979. So very nice today we are talking about a single European securities settlement framework. This is the good side, that almost all parties, the vast majority of the democratic arch believe in the United Europe, in the future of our country's prospect in it. Of course, for the legislation itself, I have to say very detailed, our diligent rapporteur, Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos. It doesn't mean to repeat them and weary. But, Minister, it is a pity that we have lost the great pleasure of the presence in the Chamber of the Minister of Finance, who was kind enough to listen to you and willfully leave immediately afterwards so that he does not hear them - in any case, we do not discuss in the Chamber at a favourable juncture about the wider economic situation in the country. Oh, welcome to him! I was just talking about you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u121	The best thing I can imagine!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u122	You'd be listening somewhere, Minister, it seems to me. I am very careful when I talk about the Stock Exchange and even - twice - more careful when I talk about the country's banking system. We had this particular development in the Banking Exchange yesterday. Today there is a relatively positive reaction to the index - you will certainly have been informed - but they tell me that to a large extent this is due to a news that exists. Is there a leak and is there a case in BLOOMBERG about government intervention and the creation of a body capable of helping the banking system? I am asking all these questions, Minister. It is important that you tell us whether you are really thinking about doing something if you are staying on an observer, if you think they all have good or something else. Because behind all of this, which we see in the banks, there is a huge government failure, a government failure among other things, but here in particular it concerns not dealing with the huge issue of red loans. When I introduced a law on red loans in 2014, which was in fact about a third of my original opinion on the overall handling of the issue, there were two other pieces, one on housing, etc. These are issues of my then disagreement with the then Minister for Finance. In any case, SYRIZA as an Opposition came and promised everyone at that time. In other words, he said - you remember - "There is no reason to join the law Trees, because we will bring a better piece of legislation, there will be a haircut of loans, we will pay off, we will make." None of this happened. You have spent some two years in awkwardness, of course by cancelling the previous framework, because no one would go into a framework, when someone promises him something to give him the loans, you have passed legislation. It seems clear that the legislation that you have passed has not achieved anything worthwhile, so at the moment we are facing a crisis in the banking sector. And let us not fool ourselves, any crisis - even the smallest one - in the banking sector poses a total risk to a country's economy. So I would very much like to hear what the Minister for Finance has to say about that. I now come beyond this to the wider issues of the unprecedented deposit, although the SYRIZA Government spokesman tried to explain what is happening here and to present it as a reasonable point. To understand, is there a precedent for an alternative plan? Of course there's a base plan. That's right you told us, Mr. Comrade. But is there such a precedent for an alternative European plan, or is it common, or have we seen it before, or has anyone else done it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u123	In the medium term.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u124	Absolutely. So, do you consider it normal to present a scenario, to present a second scenario, I imagine a third scenario, Minister, and a quarter and a fifth and a sixth, and to deal with the draft budget, not as a submission of the government proposal, of course, with the European partners? After all, this is what happens to the neighbour Italy at the expense of the wider European economy, but that is not the point. However, you will reserve yourself the opportunity to present different plans, just to give you - you will allow me to say - the 'light' populist opportunity to address the electorate and, as you usually do, to tell him the white and the yellow and the red and the green and the blue and what is wrong and what you do not like and what you do not like and to go as a group of speakers, as if we were generally a group of various issues and not a national Parliament, which should be placed on specific positions. What is particularly important - I must say to you - is that your alternative scenario entails a sacrifice of the reductions promised by you, namely the reduction of the minimum tax rate from 22% to 20%, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 30 000, the EUR 450 million from the rent subsidy. And I have to tell you he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u125	You said there was no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u126	Well done, I was surprised by the incredible paradox, for which you were unconscious, and you have now thrown it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u127	Are you kidding? Are you worried about something that doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u128	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u129	While you are usually not interrupting, now you have not been able to restrain yourself. You are so pleased with this paradox that you have thought about, that you must immediately throw it into the parliamentary dialogue! So, you say, "But what are you talking about? You said they didn't exist. So we who are now sacrificing them are not doing anything wrong, since we are sacrificing the existence." But if you agree it was nonexistent, why did you promise? Let me see where you stand. Because on two boats, Minister, you cannot stand. You have to decide a method of discussion. In any case, your proposal is now being discussed, not ours. So, in your proposal, what you suggest is undeniable. Well, I can understand which of the two scenarios, the basic or the alternative, is what you want. We need to know what's going on. And because if what you want is what the base scenario is, as the honourable Member said earlier, then from there on there there is no reason why you were telling us before, promise us that we will be cuts, reductions and all that. All of this, you know, games have a reasonable limit and the reasonable limit that is approaching is the patience of the Greek society in what you have done all this time. This is all over. You want to end in a month, do you want to end in two months, do you want to end in four months, do you want to pull it as much as you want? You know, I have to confess something to you. For us, it is the best time, because we can and can create hope, optimism, opportunity. So by prolonging your stay in power, you are actually extending our pleasure and your own misery. Because every day that passes, things will get worse for you. It's not gonna work. The bad news is that they'll get worse for Greek society as well. I will not go into all the amendments. In conclusion, our rapporteur will be referring to the vote. I just want to make a comment on the matter of the Legal Council of the State. I think it's the order. I don't disagree on reasoning. I understand that there is no human resource for the too many representations before the peace court. I fear, however, that the provision as it is suffering. And what is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Act on analogous implementation of the system of inquiries in the administrative procedure, I fear that it cannot stand. Because this is not a political thing, I would suggest that there should be a greater and more serious investigation than the government's lawyers. The other thing I would like to address concerns the first of the series of amendments, the amendment with a general number of 1763 and a special number of 260, which is late, the usual government. All right, we have said it, this government will not be serious, let us hope that our next government can restore legislative gravity in the process. I am referring here to the part of the amendment, because it comes with two different topics in it. The first is positive. Our rapporteur will be placed. We have no objections. However, as the amendment comes, on the issue of mushrooms inside, we cannot vote on it. The Minister of Education comes here earlier and says: 'We will proceed to the implementation of the provision without the adoption of the Presidential Decree'. But together we did not agree that the Presidential Decree is required? Haven't we agreed here in this Chamber? What's changed? I want to understand. Yes, what does he say? It tells us that we have sent for processing to the Council of State the presidential decree concerning the procedure before the mosquitoes, but I still come and say that the provision will be applied tomorrow morning. Why? Can we understand why? We were given no serious explanation. The issue is extremely important, nationally important, not politically important or partisanly important, but there are these strange things - you will allow me to say - not to apply etc. and quickly and in an amendment, and indeed in what amendment? In an amendment that is hidden under another positive provision. All of this puts Opposition into very great thoughts. That is precisely because it is a question of the potential nationalities, I do not want to extend to that. I am telling you straight away that we cannot vote on this amendment in these respects. I ask you to break it in two and keep the upper part on the specific issues of moulation, family income, etc., so that we can see them positively. We are ready to discuss it positively and leave the topic of the moft. If you want to inform the opposition about why you are suddenly bringing a provision, because, as in the sceptic, you have, as a government, a tendency in secret and without any decision and order in this House. So I say to you, because this is a national matter, to take the amendment back or, if you want, break it so that half will be voted on, take the other part back, let us know, if you want outside of Ethiopia, what is going on behind it and from there to come and talk about it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Minister Tsakalotos has asked for some clarification and then the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, will speak immediately. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u131	I will need three or four minutes, Mr President. The first thing I would like to say is that we accept all the government amendments. I'm saying that for the Minutes. I want to talk for just a minute about the budget, and then I will talk about the banks, which is an important issue. One thing that has made me a terrible impression about the whole 'List Europe' movement is how little he knows about Europe. It seems to me that they are pro-European, because they do not seem to know how Europe works, what rules Europe has, how Europe works. Mr Dendias tells me: 'When had this been done, what country has it done before?' I have to inform Mr Dendia that since 2010 we have been on a programme, so it has not been for us, there is the European semester.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u132	Say it whole, not half!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u133	Each country each year submits a preliminary draft to the Commission, in which there is the base scenario and what the government wants to do. Every country, every year. We are the first year we did, because we had two parties that broke down Greece and went bankrupt. We were on programs, so we haven't been in the European semester since 2010. Second: The baseline scenario is a baseline scenario. This is now a matter of economics, not a question of Europe. It's not the basic scenario. Basic script means what you work with and what you want to do. It is the basic scenario that all countries have, not only in the budget now but also in the medium term. See the tables of the Greek medium-term and all other European countries. They have the basic scenario, the baseline scenario. What does that say? If we do nothing, if we do not change taxes, no social security contributions, no expenditure, either up or down, what will the result be? The result for us, if Alexis Tsipras gave me three months of vacation after what we've taken, and if we didn't bring any bills, it would mean we'd have a primary surplus of 4.1% or 4.3%, it seems to me. So this is the primary surplus we have. You have learned how Europe works, how it is in semester, how we work. So what we do is not alternative scenarios. We testify what we want to do. What we want to do is deal with the non-reduction of pensions, has part of the countermeasures and how we will deal with all the other countermeasures. Here we are to talk. Allow me to speak for one, two minutes about the banks, because this is a very serious matter. KINAL's spokesman once again surprised us by expressing such a policy for the banks. I was shocked by Mr Theodorakis' intervention. I don't know if you hear it, but it was much lower than I expect of any parliamentary man in this House. Mr. Dendias, however, was very serious. My view on the banks, Mr Tindemans, is very clear. We have four positive things that have been done lately for the banks. The two of the four banks no longer have ELA, i.e. they do not have the emergency liquidity. For the two of us, this will end at Christmas. All banks reached the targets for the NPLs, for red loans and not only did they reach it, but they exceeded it. All banks passed stress test. Today the "FINANCIAL TIMES" has written it - the house "MORGAN STANLEY" yesterday - is well capitalised. All banks have returned deposits. These are the fundamental data. That's what they're looking at and they have to look at, not the ones doing specs, not the ones who are swarming, but the investors who look long-term and want to make money. The Greek banks are in a very good position. They have a lot of challenges ahead of them, and that is why you asked me if we think everything is going well. Of course they must continue this fight to reduce red loans. We have created - and Mr Mandas or someone else is not here to help me find a good Greek word about this - a thinking capacity, that is, we have created institutions that can quickly face any problem, which are both the Ministries and the Bank of Greece, and the CFS and of course the Banking Union, which are facing problems. If it doesn't work, for example, out-of-courts, how can it work better, how can we unblock it with new ideas that any of them go into the table and talk about it? We have a government that has this supervision, discusses with all and consensually all of us together, we think this challenge of red loans is totally confronted. So I would ask you all here - and now I am not talking to you, because, as I said, you were careful - not to say that the banks are falling apart and that they are in a terrible situation. It's not right and it's not only right, but it's not true, and that's the most important thing. In relation to what it's said that as long as SYRIZA lives it'll be worse for SYRIZA, I have another prediction. In 2019 we will have more growth than we had in 2018, while in 2018 we had more than in 2017. In 2019 we will have more people in employment than we had in 2018 and 2018 than in 2017. In 2019 we will have more investment than we had in 2018 and 2017. And, after all, if I thought otherwise, I would not discuss elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Party, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor. Minister, I would like to make a clarification. You mentioned Mr. Theodorakis as a representative of KINAL before. It's Mr. Koutsukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Koutsukos, yes. It wasn't right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u136	I am simply making a clarification, because you said 'Mr Theodorakis'. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have 12 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u137	I would also ask for clarification then, but we will be placed. I'll see you all about the placement. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have indeed exceeded the bill, which is in a positive direction and we have told the committees as well. In another logic than that which SYRIZA had when he was in the opposition, we, when there are some positive elements, see them and vote on them. Here we have a list of what SYRIZA has voted against on the specific issues of tax evasion, which has the bill. We've been talking to you in the committees too. In any case, that is not the point today. I think developments are important. First of all, let me say on the subject of the markets. Minister, when the markets go well, do you say 'bravo' to the government and when they do not go well, it is the speculators' fault? At least we keep the same argument for your government. We are constantly listening to you making non papers where, when they go well, when the markets upgrade, you have biscuits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u138	Mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u139	I'm talking about the non papers of Maximus. Now if he doesn't express you the communication staff of Maximos, it's another matter. Find them in your government. I've got a lot to do. And you can't question them. When they do not go well, you only blame the markets and the speculators. In any case, choose an argument. However, as far as yesterday's leak I saw from your Government about what you need to do from now on, these have not actually been done. The issue of red loans, for example, has not been resolved. We have made proposals to resolve them. In no version of neoliberal logic, but of your own, the problem of red loans is solved. You say the leak your government gave yesterday - to reassure - of red loans again. Tsipras said - unless you question this - 'I will bore the bullies and the markets will dance'. You don't like it now, but you said it five years ago. At least say 'we were wrong then when we talked in this way'. We are also telling you this: of course there are speculative logics, and of course we have noted all this many times, Minister. You have taken back the expression 'clean exit'. I have never heard the word "clean exit" from your Government and your Ministers. I don't remember if you personally used it. I haven't heard from her lately, though. With bibrakes, you said everything was going well. Remember the fiesta Tsipras - Kammenos in Zappeion on this matter immediately afterwards. They're showing that's not true. There's no trust. On the markets, don't you want to go out to borrow our country? That's where you're not going out? Where are you going to get out? Don't you think that's a success? How are you going to get out when there's a situation like this right now? At the moment, the banking system is being questioned. Of course we should all support the country's banking system and pay attention to what we all say publicly, because these are sensitive issues. Those of us who have a reason, which sounds, must be very careful. But at the same time we also need to make changes. That's all we've been telling you, and we've told you many times. In any case, yesterday's developments show that there is no easy way to go. We have not exceeded the crisis. We're not over it. No exit to the markets will be easy. The Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr. Stournaras, told you sometime. He told you this would not be easy. You blamed him. You've framed Mr. Stournara. In fact, we are learning that at the meetings that you are not even taking the view of a person responsible for this particular issue of the European Central Bank, you have not taken these days. We hear that you do not have the power at meetings in Maximos or at meetings in the European Central Bank as a matter of fact. Unless that's not his business. Or because you're in a dimension, isn't he even called on this matter? Let's go to the budget. I have kept what you said, namely that some do not know how Europe works. That really stranged me. At least you're telling parties and people that you shouldn't be talking about. You referred to the opposition as a whole. You have now become aware of the whole system in Europe and how it works! You have referred to what we are telling you, namely that what you are doing in your budget is unprecedented. What did you do? You signed the Troika - as you would like to call it, but the same is - the reduction of pensions and after two months you have brought two alternative scenarios to the budget. What does this have to do with the permanent process that exists with the base scenarios? The other is a permanent budgetary procedure that is being tabled in all the countries of the European Union. You are now signing the pension reduction in government and in two or three months you are bringing two alternative scenarios. One for the outside and one for the inside!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u140	You don't like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u141	The point is, you're mocking the Greek people. He's not who he likes and what he likes. You're making fun of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u142	Can you explain to me where the mock is?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u143	But you are, Minister, on the road that Marx drew. Indeed, that's the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u145	"These are my principles. If you don't like them, okay, I have more." But, indeed, that's the logic of Carl Marx's comic Graucho Marx and not Carl Marx's!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u146	Where's the mock, can you explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u147	In signing a couple of months ago and saying, after two months, that there are these two scenarios, without telling the Greek people the truth. It's so clear what I'm telling you and we're all telling you and you can't understand. And, of course, if you want to see the mockery, see Tables 2.1 and 2.2, but also Tables 2.7 and 2.8 of the budget, which certify it. But, apart from the question of pensions, Minister, you are now telling me what the mockery is when you say to the tax-free that you will resign if tax-free is reduced? He's reduced to half, you're in your position, and you've resigned a new tax reduction? And you're telling me what the mock is? The mockery of your government is permanent. Permanent. And the opposition parties and the Greek people. But, at least, do not come as honors, so that there can be a debate on the basis of the problems that exist in the Greek economy. In our view, the preliminary draft budget fully breaks down your record of the country's net exit from the tough comitology. It shows that the government thinks, what I said to you, that you can make fun of the citizens. It is only based on the continued overtaxation of households and businesses. Reduction in investment rates even in the financing of the economy. That is what you have to answer all the time, and I mean to the committees and to the plenary that is going to be debated. But today, if you want to give us some answers, you can convince us on a number of issues, here we are. If you can convince us about the investments and all that is falling. But also for the surpluses, 3.5%, the unbearable primary surpluses of 3.5%. What economic policy, Mr Chakalote, says that this government's only objective is to achieve primary surpluses of 3.5%? Where you did not want the surpluses when you were in opposition - we did not have a statement from you that you wanted the government's surpluses in the election - to have done a unique target of 3.5% and to be overtaxed to achieve it. Have also done an insurance policy that needs to change radically, to have made it a substantial tax bill. We have told you what our position is, that the primary surplus and the targets must be reduced to 2% over the next five years and not to set excessive targets that drain the economy. When he told you and wrote it to you in his various analyses and the Budget Office of this House, in fact, ye were shouting against the Bureau of the Parliament. But other issues that have been discussed before you and the State Secretary. In fact, I saw the SYRIZA rapporteur, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and the Minister shouting, because it has been a matter of the Opposition that the issue of ten thousand tens of tens of tens of public property has not been clarified, and I have even heard the Minister give information and the information he has given is what the rapporteur for Democratic Incorporation has said, for example, that there is no exception to museums. There is only one in the archaeological sites. We didn't get any answers. Secondly, instead of saying this to us, let us tell the Minister for Culture that we were 'actually wrong'. We could've done this better. He didn't say it was targeted. But he said that "we could have predicted it." Well, that is not what your Government, the SYRIZA rapporteur and so on, says that it could have been better predicted. So the Minister of Culture sees it and the Minister of Finance blames the opposition on the fact that it is staggering and discovering it? That you hadn't made that provision? Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we cannot get out of the crisis in this way. Tell me what structural reforms have been made in the economy and in the way of operation right now in the country so that we can get out of the crisis? Because if you think the problem is just accounting in the country, it's not. And they're all over the time, if you want, the problems in many areas of the economy. What has changed from hunting primary surpluses with overtaxation? Or does anyone think we're achieving the goals with growth right now? We cannot get out of the crisis as long as this impasse policy continues and as long as a policy is under way which is, in fact, a foolish one. I have been listening to your Members and your party speaking on the channels in the past few months and not saying that it is intended not to reduce pensions. We have tabled to you here in the House, if you would like our position, that pensions should not be cut. We're clear about that. And we said: 'Do you negotiate effectively so that this is not done with unilateral actions', that is our position. But you signed it, said for two months everywhere: 'We will not talk about it, we will have signed the pension reduction, we will see it when the time comes'. When the time came, you submitted two alternative scenarios. And on all matters over the last few years, you have shown us that what is being done is, in fact, not at the expense of the high layers, is at the expense of the low layers, because you are reducing the tax-free amount to which you are reducing it. Since you are here, at least tell us: Do you also have a purpose in this, at some point, to submit double scenarios to the Greek Parliament? How will you handle the new tax reduction? Because we are also listening to you, your Government, and your Members, despite the fact that you sign the tax reduction, say everywhere that, as far as tax is concerned, the debate will be on time. Isn't that what you're saying? You haven't made a commitment to that, too. Well, we can't go on like this, we need an effective policy, and because I saw you in the committees - I read the minutes of the committees - that you have late concerns about social democracy as well...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u148	In Greece, not in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u149	In Greece, in fact, not in Europe. If it is possible that you have embraced the European principles of social democracy, which speak of the rule of law, of independent principles, of non-subsidisational recycling of poverty, that I do not take them from everyone to give them crusts with allowances, but I am building areas in education, health and where they must, which are real areas that can strengthen society in our country! And, of course, in other sectors, the state exercises tough supervision, but it does not actually produce the same, but it allows healthy productive activity to take place. What do you have to do with social democracy? And why do these late, really, concerns? Has any of you said he's a Social Democrats? Have you said you want to go back to social democracy? You have never said so because you do not embrace our principles of European Social Democracy. You're trying to get practically what you're interested in. You cling to the European Union every time, by Mrs Merkel, to the European Social Democracy and so on. So the European Social Democracy is against the deadlocked policies of dogmatic austerity, which are currently in place in our country and you cannot treat them as a card. You continue to have such a policy on all these issues. And can I tell you something? When you return to the opposition, after the elections, and I'm afraid you'll return to your opposition populism as government...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u150	Where will you be? New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u151	We will be reinforced, we will have overthrown the political connections to SYRIZA and New Democracy, which must be defeated. Because you have your birthday, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you have referred to the achievements of the New Democracy, and I cannot say what is due and some pathogens in our country. Because you forgot about the five-year Karamanlis, 2004-2008. Although Mr Dendias - and I would like to stress that - is referring to the Golden Dawn and the arrest of the Golden Dawn people really honours him - I mean, personally - and the reference he made and the way he had handled this issue then. I say, however, that you did not refer to the 'achievements' of the New Democracy, which is how the country entered the crisis in 2004-2009 that we reached the twin deficits and, of course, how you handled these issues all along this time. Let me remind you of Zappian populism. People'sism doesn't have color. Whether he's right or left, it's populism. Unfortunately, you in your party have also served in other kinds of populism, but in any case populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Minister, would you like clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u153	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u154	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u155	I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u156	I know you haven't spoken. But Mrs Papanatsiou has spoken in your time. Don't you want to hear the rest of the Members of Parliament? If something is said by Mr. Katsikis, Mr. Mandash or Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you'd like to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u157	I think that the JRC's colleagues will say constructive things and I will not have to answer them, so I am not worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u158	Are you sure they'll say for the government? Come on, Minister, so we won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u159	The truth is, I have to leave soon. I don't do it rudely, not even to delay the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u160	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u161	Mr Theocharopoulos, as you say in Veroia, there is 'the bottom line'. Bottom line is the essence of things. For one, a year and a half you and the New Democracy say it's a mute that we're getting out of the program, that it's a mistake to have freedom of movement. And where did you support this? Pensions. For a year and a half you put all your eggs in this basket, you said that it proves we don't go out and we don't have a clean exit because pensions will be reduced. That's what you were saying. I can bring you thousands of newspapers in both PASOK and KINAL and New Democracy. You built your entire account by saying that the pensions would be cut, so we don't have a clean exit. It's not my fault. In fact, Mr. Dendias, who has a very good memory, will know that I was warning you about this. I was telling you in the budget last year: do not put all your eggs in this unique basket. Why, what do you do if you don't reduce pensions? Now I understand that you are saying something else with twigs. Have you embedded and been afraid there's a chance - big, little one? - that pensions will probably not be reduced and that proves that we do not have a clear exit from the markets, because we cannot get out of the markets at the moment when we are losing in Italy and the emerging markets in general. Is that the new basket? That's where you're gonna put all your eggs? We need to know if that's it. Tell me what the proof is that we don't have a clean exit. Say it. Before you were talking about pensions. Now I understand that you get it back. If the pensions are not reduced, you will not go out and say we have a clean exit. So all this investment is lost. That's how I understand. Correct me if that's not the case. What are you going to say from now on? You're gonna say we don't go out on the market? And if we get out on the market, what are you gonna say? So who's making fun of who? We worked for two years to change a policy that we thought was unfair at the time and we said so. I said it first by leaving Malta's Eurogroup. We've worked for two years. We haven't fooled anyone. We know how much the people have suffered, we know that it was not a proper policy to reduce pensions and we are very against doing so. No one has fooled us, because we have a great deal of concern for this people, and we have made a great effort to reverse what has troubled him. So don't tell us we fooled the people, because we tried not to reduce pensions. You play with their pain, so you can earn a point in the political chess board.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u162	We thank the Minister for the clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u164	We can't get into a question procedure. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister will have to answer later. He hasn't hurt you. There's no question of personality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u165	I would like a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u166	One minute he asked me, Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Dendias before, and I did not give him the floor. You have a right of dentistry, if you like, to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u167	I won't use it. We cannot, Mr President, now have to give the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u168	Let's keep going a little bit. Mr. Katsikis is also waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u169	But he asked for something, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u170	It's not like he asked something. You cannot answer now and enter the dialogue process right now. You can wait and answer later. The Minister will have to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u171	The process of dialogue is a pillar of democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Theocharopoulos, help the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative. I did not take the floor beyond my speech. I don't want any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u174	I understand what you're saying. Help a little on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u175	We'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Dendias will also want to have the floor after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u177	Let him go, that's the way democracy is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u178	It's not about taking him. That's the way democracy is, but that's the way it is! Wait till Mr Katsikis speaks, and Mr. Karathanasopoulos talks, we can finish the procedure and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u179	If we go to secondarys, we'll be more late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u180	Let's slow down, what can we do? Don't get into this right now. You understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u182	The Minister will have to answer after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u183	Just a minute to answer and ask a question. I don't want any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you expect me to make an announcement and give you this minute. You can understand that you are making the process difficult right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four school attendants from the Dutch High School of Het Redens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for a minute. Be brief to help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u185	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u186	Sure. Minister, you said we weren't going to get out of the pension crisis. We told you we wouldn't get out of the crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u187	That there won't be a clean way out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u188	Look. Let me give you an answer, and if you like, answer me. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u189	Minister, you will answer whatever you want, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u190	So we say that what you have signed is, in fact, a tough programme for this five-year period that comes, with commitments for the country of primary surpluses of 3.5%, with duty-free reductions, with too many issues, which are essentially a tough programme, tough supervision. So we've been telling you that the whole of Greek citizens are experiencing this and it has many aspects, it has pensions in it, it also has a tax-free instrument. And all this leads to the non-existence of the crisis, as we are basically in a new budget, harder programme until at least 2022. So that is what we were telling you, you have now tried to alter it. We have not come out of the crisis, Minister. We haven't come out of the crisis. And I'm telling you this, as it turns out by tax policy, by insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u191	I'll get you some leads on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u192	Ask a citizen if you're going out, if he thinks we're out of the crisis today and the tough surveillance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Theoharopus, it's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u194	Who's mocking the Greek people, Minister? When you have said personally that tax-free and tax-free will not be reduced to half, at least we should be very careful when using a number of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u195	Mr Colleague, it's clear what you said. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u196	You said or didn't say that the tax would not be reduced, Minister? Answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have said so in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u198	Scripta manent. Now you put all your eggs in this basket. It's not my fault. I warned you. Listen to me another time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u199	All right, Minister. You said it yourself. Let's move on. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor for 12 minutes. Immediately after Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Mandas, we conclude with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, it is still in my ears that the opposition has stated in the programme statements, after our vowing in this parliamentary term, that the constructive opposition consists in the consent of fellow Members and the Heads of Political Correspondence to whatever serves the country, facilitates Greek citizens, composes and votes. And what constitutes a start, many, expressed by all the leaders of the Greek Parliament's political factions today - and not only today but perhaps more than ever - is coming by denying, when statements from this Step, regarding the hope of the Greeks that their pensions will not be cut, is being made a matter of political confrontation through elements of demagogicism and populism that make up the behaviour of colleagues, unfortunately, by highlighting the party benefit in this way, empowering the hope of the pensioners and Greeks, which is being evicted through an honest and honest effort by this government, to take back a measure - which we have, in fact, all voted on - that of the pension cut. The longer the time goes, the more we see that this effort is going to be successful, since the Europeans are slowly beginning to consent, and our finances allow us to suspend or abolish, if you want, this measure, not to cut pensions, not to bring your own economic injuries and other damage to Greek families, to Greek households. And despite the fact that this sads me - I am nothing, the very least of Parliament - I am making a recommendation to everyone to stop this political propaganda, which, in fact, I said and repeat, serves a party benefit rather than a national interest. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words, and I will be brief, on this draft law, which, as has been said, is in three parts. The first two concern adaptations of Greek legislation to European Union directives. In particular, the first in the Central Securities Repository, the second in Directive 2225/2016 on the exchange of tax information, the fight against illegal activities within the European Union, and the third deals with other issues of the Ministry of Finance regarding central securities repositories. The provisions of Regulation 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the European Union and central repositories are adapted. In particular, it is laid down that central securities repositories will function in the form of a public limited company with the permission of the Securities Committee, in which they are required to submit the reports of the chartered auditors, and they should also have to have rules of operation, which will be adopted by the Securities Committee. The second part of the draft law concerns the incorporation into Greek law of the European Union Directive 2016/2258 concerning the access of tax authorities to information on the fight against money laundering in order to ensure the correct and uninterrupted application of administrative cooperation through the automatic exchange of information between Member States of the European Union for beneficiaries of financial accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, we have pointed out quite a few times from this Step forward that establishing a legal framework based on greater transparency can act as a powerful deterrent to illegal and criminal activities, making the Union and national law more effective in managing the new threats to the security of the Member States. Finally, with regard to the provisions contained in Part Three, the humanitarian approach of the state is very clear to our fellow citizens who have recently been affected by the destructive fires of July, as referred to in Articles 38 and 39. The people who died because of the fires that hit the district of Attica - areas where I minister my parliamentary office vowed to serve my fellow citizens - experience the grief taken by the country in the Eye of Rafina and Marathon, harming the main or secondary residence of people and numbering ninety-nine life losses. They will receive from the public two gross monthly earnings of more than EUR 5,000 and the EUR 8 000 that have been received - and even given - but also the ten million which are collected in the hope of restoring the houses affected, have been destroyed either partially or in full by the fires. And this - if you like - I regard it as a sign of a social policy of this government against an analgesic social tactics of the past. Minister, I would like to express an objection, studying it under the general number 1775 and a special 265 amendment on its second article, which relates to the amendment of No 4174/2013 on the Code on Tax Procedure. This very article, which goes to amend the above-mentioned law, does not sufficiently haunt what it is going to do, namely the need to broaden the provision of confidential tax data. Here, too, I sincerely want your attention at the moment when I am going to raise my objections to the widening of tax data to non-government bodies. I honestly cannot understand why the Independent Public Revenue Authority will be granted specific tax records to interbank companies that do not belong, I note, even to bodies of the general government. Nor can I see how this public interest is guaranteed in this way, because that is what this article says in this amendment, namely that the public interest is guaranteed. On the contrary, I believe it is clear that the interests of credit institutions are, above all, guaranteed and that their own liabilities are primarily reduced. This is also the main reason for the establishment of interbank companies. As also, Minister, it is unclear what the range of interbank companies and, above all, the credit and financial institutions which are responsible for the management of the archives is. It may also be foreign credit institutions, to which there is a clear risk that taxable persons may be transferred without guarantees and in excess of the prescribed framework. Furthermore, the update of the records and data held by these companies does not appear to be sufficient justification for the confidentiality to be removed in this case and, in fact, without any other condition or procedure. There is no reference in the draft law to the way in which the information is provided, the submission of a request, the completion of a form or the fulfilment of the requests is left to the discretion of the tax administration. After all, it cannot be checked that these facts will not be used for any other person, I would say, but for the record to be updated. Obviously there are other ways of making such information, and it is possible that they will have or have access to it to other persons, individuals, companies, lawyers, etc., so that the confidentiality of a much larger range of persons is immediately removed in a manner which is not justified by the provision. As regards the proposed case, page 3 of the amendment, I am referring to you in the paragraph: ‘It is foreseen that the tax administration may provide the information and information of a Register of Taxees to legal persons governed by public law, to public undertakings or undertakings of legal persons governed by public law, to public undertakings or to mixed undertakings of OTAs, to associations of municipalities, to public bodies and to private entities’. That's what it says, without having finished it, the case of web. First of all, we believe that it is not legally correct and that it is confused and largely overlap with the case. Finally, it should be noted that the proposed provisions show a confusion, Mr Minister, in the sense of the public interest, and it is apparent that they do not aim to the interest of the Independent Public Revenue Authority but rather to the operators to whom the data will be transmitted. After all, the information collected by the tax administration is intended to implement the State budget and not to serve the interests of other operators, especially private individuals. And if it is partly public, in the broadest sense, bodies, in the case of private and private interests, which makes it extremely risky but also dangerous to provide information to them, since these data are not primarily observed by the tax administration, but have been provided to them for a specific reason and exclusively for tax purposes. We consider the widening of tax confidentiality particularly dangerous, when the European Union has set particular conditions for the protection of personal data and of the privacy of citizens. In particular, the provision of information such as mother's name and surname, identity number, family status, home address, postcode, etc., to anyone who could jeopardise even the individual's family. In addition, in areas with a single postal code, the residence of the natural person is also evident. To conclude, I would like to ask you or legally to improve it without serving private interests through broadening tax secrets to private companies and other business groups, or, Minister, withdraw this provision. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. They are left by the parliamentary representatives, Mr Karathanasopoulos, who will take the floor now and immediately afterwards is Mr Mandas and we are completing the parliamentary procedure. We have the seconds and, if he wants to close, the Minister will be placed in order to proceed with the vote. We estimate that by 16.00 p.m. we will have completed the process. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to refer to this amendment, Mr Minister. Our rapporteur, too, has referred to a number of questions, because Mrs Papanatziou, too, has tried to answer them, she has spoken of a cross-check simply to prevent mistakes being made. But it raises questions as to whether it is precisely the beginning of an attempt to escalate the pressure on highly indebted households, whether in banks or municipal companies or public enterprises, to put pressure on them to cover their debts more quickly. And we say that, precisely, because it creates questions. For example, interbank companies that manage files were reported. Another example is this: we know very well that PPC - which is within these bodies that will be provided with the confidential information - cooperates with collecting offices for its debtors. So we believe that there are reasonable questions to be asked. They cannot be justified on the basis of 'data cross-checking' and, in our view, we should withdraw these provisions provided for in the specific amendment amending Article 17 of the Code of Tax Procedure. Going to the general issues. Our rapporteur has, of course, been in detail for the bill. I will dwell more on this convenient controversy, which is repeated and escalating and will increase as close as the election period is. After all, we have entered an extended election period. It is a convenient controversy that makes it easier for the government, when the government continues with great adequacy and success the policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, that is to say, the policy that meets all the needs of business groups, the needs of capital in the phase of the recovery of the capitalist economy, when much more the government is the signifier of American planning in the region, that is, at the moment, which gives land and water to American imperialist planning to implement their plans in the wider region. For example, there was an entire debate - the Minister was also present - on the two versions of the preliminary draft. So if it was three, four or five, would it change something? I refer to the two scenarios in the baseline scenario and the alternative. Does something change as to the nature of the budget, either? Isn't the budget unpopular in both its versions? Is it not the preliminary draft state budget escalation of the anti-population attack? Isn't the state budget a tool for redistributing socially produced wealth? The state budget takes it from the many to give it to the few. That's what you're doing. It is clear that this is an anti-grass attack escalation, even if we take the alternative, the favourable one, for you. From whom does he have all this tax revenue? From a world that has paid over the past few years huge sums of taxes, has suffered reductions in its pensions - it is theft of pensions, it is not reductions - and reductions in its wages, and today it is called upon to pay even more to taxation. In other words, from the same world, people's incomes, which are borne all over the past few years, and today you continue to take the basic piece, 95% of tax revenue. It is precisely on this basis that people's incomes should be taken into account in the bleeding primary surpluses and in the financial area, as it is called, so that you can play games with the various benefits. In other words - and here is the essence, if you want, of our criticism - in the alternative scenario while bleeding people to catch these primary surpluses, you are motivated to shield the competitiveness of business groups. Why don't you tell me that's different. You have organised a huge tax raid on the popular layers and you are subsidising - it says - the insurance contributions. In other words, from the employee's money, the retired person you tax, you will grant a subsidy to the business groups, for employee insurance contributions up to twenty-four years old. Who wins from this process? He pays the taxpayer to pluck the capitalist. With the same provisions, again, you say that you will reduce the tax rate of the distributed profits from 15% to 10%. Really? Is the retired person, in order to reduce the capitalist's tax on profits, who will pay 10% tax on profits, while the lower income step of a natural person who is either a pensioner or an employee, is 22%? And you say this without shame? Who, then, serves this tax raid? You have the people bleeding to reduce capitalist taxation. The same logic is the reduction of the tax rate for legal persons from 29% to 25% gradually - every year 1%. Same logic. So this is the redistribution that you do, among the least poor in the interests of the rich. It's a tough class redistribution. And you're saying here that the people have to accept this case? The controversy about whether or not pensions will be reduced is a shock. We call it clear. And all this at a time when pensioners have lost over 1/3 of their pension pay, and the governments of New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA AND ANEL. There is no replacement of the losses, even though the recovery is here, even though we are changing a page as you claim. Not only will they have to make up for their losses, but they must live with this theft that you have made in their pensions, and, of course, with the abolition of the personal difference being smashed as a tom block over the heads of pensioners. Because it may not be done now, but it can be done after six months or there may be a threat. But the basic thing that you want to achieve, and for which New Democracy and the PASOK give a hand, is to reduce the demands of the workers and to accommodate them with crumbs. You are seeking, in other words, to accept the workers, the people's layers, the pensioners, the logic of 'to burn you, Giannis, to grind you oil'. You want to accept wage cuts, pension reductions, in the name of the armouring of budgetary discipline and the competitiveness of business groups and to be reconciled with certain subsidisational logics. It is also the debate that is taking place in the banking and the developments that we have in the financial system. What does this controversy cover? It covers the uncertainties of economic developments both at the level of the Greek economy and in the international capitalist economy. In other words, this is a weak recovery and, at the moment, when there are frictions in specific economies in our neighbourhood - such as Italy and Turkey - and when a trade war is escalating between the United States and the European Union, between the United States and China, through the logic of protectionism that affects international trade, it is thus further reducing expectations when it comes to and expressing a more general geostrategic confrontation and a conflict between the major imperialist forces focusing on the resetting of markets and the control of the financial system. Are there no conflicting interests between the European Central Bank and the US funds for the control of the Greek banks? Aren't there any such conflicts? So you want to cover up all this, say there's nothing there, reduce this whole situation. Above all, however, you want to take advantage of the situation and developments in the financial system as a means of pressure on the borrowers, in order to put their backs on, to reduce the bank's precariousness, red loans, so that they even tighten the belt to save banks and the financial system. This is the philosophy and logic of your policy, which just sacrifices the satisfaction of peoples in the altar of salvation either of banks or of the entire capitalist system and business groups. So there must be no tolerance from the workers and no rest for what you have prepared them for later. Above all, there must be no tolerance and rest when the country is becoming more and more deeply involved in these harsh imperialist competitions in the wider region, where the the thermometer rises, the risks of war are growing closer to our neighbourhood and Greece is the marker. You are turning Greece, the government of SYRIZA and ANELs into an advanced warden of American imperialism. The American ambassador is perpetuating from ministries to cities. Yesterday he went to Alexandroupolis and demanded the basis for helicopters to be able to fight an electronic war to control closely against the Russian influence and attitude. You've basically turned the American embassy into your second home. So, at a time when NATO escalates the war threats to Russia, it brings troops, it performs military exercises, Greece proves to be a signifier of these designs in the wider region, just to upgrade Greece's geopolitical position. What's that for? In order for Greek business groups to be able to take a larger part of the slices and opportunities open to the Western Balkans and the wider region. So, then, it is common that the womb that puts the Greek people at risk of literally bleeding or "blowing" them daily through the totalitarian attack that takes place on their livelihoods and labour rights. In this respect, the working class and the wide folk layers must conflict with the real cause. And it is neither the impossibility of the current government or the intentions of the next government, but it is essentially the policy that serves the needs of capital, because they are behind the deterioration of the position of the peoples and peoples. And, precisely, they must be rid of these designs and conflict with the interests of capital and the policies of the European Union, with determination to strengthen the struggles, the class orientation of the movement and also the JRC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, fifty students and students and three teachers from the High School of Nemea. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u204	I want to make a clarification in a word Mr. Karathanasopoulos said. We have never hidden that things are difficult and that the correlations in Europe, as you have analysed them, have been against us. Everything we tried to do and we're trying to do, it's within these relationships. But you used a word I want you to fix it. You said the attack and redistribution against interests - if I remember correctly - escalate. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u205	The anti-popular attack is escalating, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u206	'The anti-population attack is escalating'. The word escalates is that I'm interested. I don't remember what the other thing you said, whether it was the world of work or the popular layers. That's not right, it's wrong. So it is right to say that 3.5% of the primary surplus is very high and this causes many problems in the popular layers. That's right. But it is not right, since we have already reached 3.5%, to say that it is escalating. Even if you look at the preliminary draft budget and have at the back of your mind in the medium term, you will know that from 2019 onwards, the public sector is in favour of popular strata. It doesn't escalate. Every year, the policy will be expanding. This year is 750 that's in the preliminary draft, it's 250 that was one of the countermeasures we had in 2018 that's still going on, that's what's in the draft for hospitals and housing. All this together is in favour of the people's strata. So I don't disagree that we can discuss the connections. We can discuss that our objectives are too high but you cannot say that they are escalating. It's not right. This year, in 2019, we will see exactly how much it will be. It will be 1 to 1.2 billion, an expansionist policy, which the big part goes to the popular layers. I wanted to make that clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds. I want to make a clarification. I should like to explain to the Minister where he is'stage'. I want him to understand how we mean it because the Minister is leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u208	The Minister's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u209	Let Mr. Mandais hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u210	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for a minute. I don't deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u211	I would like to say this: why are we saying that the anti-grass attack is escalating, Mr President? We say why, in the preliminary draft budget, the government expresses its thanks to the people, who have been subjected to enormous sacrifices over the past few years. But thank you, it doesn't work any place at all. Why? Because it will continue to be subjected to enormous sacrifices both in the years to come and in the next few decades, by 2060, with the primary surpluses, with the tax raid made, with the attack on its standard of living. That's why we say it's escalation. It's not a year and it's over. It is that all this comes together to the burdens suffered by the people and is loaded with a barium above. This is the essence of the issue, and it is doing so to shield the competitiveness of capital and to redistribute it for the benefit of business groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u212	It's clear, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, and you said it in your speech. Mr Manda, you have the floor for twelve minutes, and immediately after that, those who wish to be second-guessed to complete the process must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u213	I will try to comment on a few things that have been heard in general and on the basis of the bill and the incorporation of the directive we are debating today. To say that there is no doubt - it has been heard by almost most of the sides of the democratic arch - that we have good rules here. The other provisions, but also the amendments, I think, will be in a positive direction and that will be reflected in the votes. As far as I understand it, most of them will be voted on by most of the House. They solve problems, that is. They solve specific problems. I would like to make a little reference to what Mr Dendias has said, to explain in relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Education. Mr. Teddy, I'd like to tell you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u214	We want to break.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u215	Wait for me to explain. As you recall, the law amending - if I recall correctly - Law No. 1920/1991, Law No. 4511/2018, which spoke about the rights of the mufts of Thrace within the Greek legal system has received a broad support. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What is happening now to be clear - it says in the explanatory statement, that I will try to repeat and explain - is that a presidential decree was in fact provided for. This has indeed been delayed. It has now been submitted to the S.E. for opinion. What the amendment simply does is start to implement the law by now. The point is that there are requests from the Muslim community - because the Presidential Decree is not finalised until the start of the current court year - is open - to be able to appeal to the Greek courts. That's what this is about. I think it is an amendment which does not change the law - which I repeat has received broad support - but speeds up its implementation. I told you at which stage is the Presidential Decree? I think that once you agree with the substance of the law, we must move on. That is why I also made this further explanation as much as I could, of course, also through the explanatory statement. I obviously also endorse Mr Treasury's reference to the Nazi structure, which has the courage to speak in this way about national issues. I would, however, like to say in particular to the Parliamentary Representative of the Officer's Representation that his concern that national stereotypes and extreme right-wing approaches should not be rekindled on such a big issue. I imagine you understand what I am talking about, because, at least in the New Democracy, I - obviously not by a majority of its executives, but by highly-predictable executives who have critical roles in the field of Officerial Response - I understand that there is a pressure to go in this direction of nationalist unresolved and perpetuating the problem with the neighbouring country, who do not find the European People's Party to which you belong. You spoke just before about the two major achievements of the New Democracy, but at this crucial point, at this critical moment, I think we should in a wise and consistent way see how the road to solving this problem will be opened. And I invite you to contribute to this. Now I'm going down. There was a certain debate on the budget and economic policy in general. I won't say anything on the issues of the Stock Exchange and the banks. I think the Minister for Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, has given a clear answer. I believe and hope that in the secondary years the rapporteurs will be measured, as we have to be measured on this issue that is critical and sensitive and we all understand it. I think that the response of Euclid Tsakalotos was complete and sufficient. However, I would like to say a few conclusions, which I draw from the speeches of the other political forces, in relation to both the substance of economic policy and how things are going on. New Democracy is in a strategic deadlock. He can't think that we've come out of the hard Memorial Committee. The truth is that we are memorially in enhanced supervision, with what that means. The example of our approach to pensions is entirely in this direction and is not at all paradoxical, but other examples, such as the application of prolongation to collective agreements, which has already given thousands of workers, not covered by sectoral contracts, the possibility of increasing their wages significantly. I'm closing this parentheses and I'm continuing. It is precisely what the government does and the budget - we have explained to you exactly how the budget works and I think we need to discuss this on a common basis - and it shows this direction, that now after the memorials, after leaving the programme - not without difficulties and problems, we have never said that by magic everything - we can take very concrete steps, tangible steps to improve the position that the Greek people will see in their daily lives. We have already done a great deal, but now we can do much more and these are very specific, pictured in the draft budget. We'll have a chance to talk about it. The strategic deadlock of the New Democracy is that it cannot explain either to itself or to the Greek people or to Europe how it holds such a attitude towards a policy which has taken the country out of its programmes and the mixture of which, as is reflected in the budget, gives new opportunities. KINAL, in my opinion, is completely confused. He doesn't know who to go and who to let go. He doesn't know where he's headed and where he is. And I say this because, at least, the tons are suddenly being raised and positions are being adopted, such as in the originals of the KINAAL rapporteur, especially with the banking system - other political forces have avoided them - which, at least me, are torn by the tons that are being developed and, in any case, I do not think that if we look at the specific issues raised by the KINAAL rapporteur and by the parliamentary representative to a certain extent, they are pretexts in sin, so as to say quite simply. A political force which, like the other political forces, the old two-party system, which has led the country to a reduction of one quarter of its national income, to the launching of unemployment at 27%, to the destruction of society as a whole, should, in my opinion, keep a little lower in relation to what is happening today. To make a tough review, but on the facts. That is a demand, which I personally express, so that we can have a fruitful dialogue, with arguments. I also think that the JRC's side has heard a criticism that I would describe as a Meso-war critic. You're going to tell me: We're not in conditions that look like the Middle War? It could be discussed and exactly how the various data are structured on the international and European stage, which are similar, and so on. But his criticism of the government's economic policy and, in particular, of the matter of the budget, I think it is a review of the inter-war, identifying a force of the Radical Left, almost the most reactionary there is at European level and not seeing what the majority of the Greek people see, that this government, SYRIZA, is doing what can within the given conditions and in an adversity, which I think we all understand, of European and international relations, so as to open up new roads for the country. The substance, ladies and gentlemen, is - and I think this is the core of all this, I would say the criticism, which at times sounds like an unreasonable criticism - that we are in a new period of time, I repeat without difficulties, not without problems, but this new period gives the social majority a real and tangible perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u216	With Mr Manda's intervention, the circle of the parliamentary representatives has been completed, so we are now going to be able to pass on to the seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u218	Of course, Mr. Treasury. After you, is there another parliamentarian who would like to say a few words, to close this circle and move on to the words of the rapporteurs and speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I will retain this possibility myself, but I may not use it. I just want to hear what Mr. Dendias will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Mada, you have every right to ask for a second time or an intervention. No one deprives you of that right. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I have to deal with a number of issues, which have been addressed by the Minister of Finance, which has been replaced by the government headquarters. I am not saying that it has been done on this point, but I would be interested to hear from his further representative, because you have noticed, Mr Juliarakis, that the Minister of Finance is in place during the debate in Parliament and our Rules of Procedure prevent us from responding to what he says. First, the government avoided, even though I put it directly, congratulating us on our forty-fourth birthday. It is only from the Chamber that we have accepted the wishes. I imagine Mr. Juliarakis, if he talks, will make sure he wishes us. Indeed, since it is a left-wing government, as far as the legislation is concerned, I have invoked the two huge important steps we have taken, the restoration of democracy and the entry into Europe. But as far as the wider dialogue with the Left is concerned, I think it is worth mentioning also Constantine Mitsotakis, who, in practice, has led the country to national reconciliation, forming and supporting a government to which the Left has participated and indeed the Communist Party of Greece. The second thing I want to say is that the Minister for Finance is occupied by a child's cavalry. Every time one of his colleagues says something, gets up and tells him, in the practical sense - which is a professional, it does not do so by evil, I have to say - 'You do not know Europe very well, you do not understand European mechanisms very well'. That would be cute if it did not have the following tragic, ladies and gentlemen. If the government were so well aware of Europe and understood the connections and European mechanisms so well, would you like to explain to us how you led to the debacle of 2015, which we have paid extremely expensively? Now do not go to quantifications of the word 'always', because we may disagree there, but in any case we have paid her very accurately. In fact, Mr Tsakalotos at the time, who now explains how well he has learned Europe, participated in this government. I belong to those who read regardless of whether I agree or appreciate the author. It is worth seeing the book by Mr Varoufakis, how he refers to Mr Tsakalotos and the initial phase of his participation in this government and their agreement to the totalitarian attack on Europe, which seems to be so well known, so that we can achieve this tragic result for the country. I shall now refer to the criticism you have made in the New Democracy. The Minister of Finance tells us every time "All your predictions have fallen out, all your scenarios have not been verified. But you were talking about other things coming out of you. You do not have as an anti-government reason for existence and a solid scenario." I'll get it in turn. We understand that every government is being pressed, how much more than a government, which is being polluted too much, that is, when you have a demographic difference of ten, twelve units from the opposition. I understand that, Minister. It's not easy. Every day, you've got leg weights. But what were the government's scenarios that they achieved in principle? I don't want to remind the Minister of Finance of his resignation statement. You remember that. In any case, he said so. I don't want to embarrass him. But to tell the Chamber - it is not simple, I do not think it is irresponsible in general - that his basic scenario was that he would avoid tax reductions. There is no Minister for Finance, who comes and says 'If he falls, I will resign', if he does not predict that he will not be reduced. How, then, has the same man done colossal misfortune, concerning conditionality and his own political existence? How does it come and say after "Miss, you didn't get the script"? The second issue is the exit from the committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, one minute, 'Staka, Turk, to be filled'. You present it as if it were your success, as something you have accomplished, as it has been done through you. You will forgive me to tell you - because I am a lawyer, so I make my bread, so I live my family - that this was a contract that ended. You didn't interrupt her. You have not achieved results that will enable it to be stopped. It's just the end of the contract. You are calling your success and you are boasting about one thing that has only a time dimension. The contract's over. This is not your success, it just happened. The question is, when this convention ends, what position do we take at the time when this convention ends, when the Greek society is in a position? I would ask you to reply to that and not to the wider enthusiasm. In any case, because I do not want to delay more, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing to you. You're telling the New Democracy that he doesn't have a scenario for opposition. SYRIZA is the classic case of the first populist argument, which, through a crisis, achieves an opportunityal majority - a numerical majority - but also a parliamentary majority - and beyond, without any scenario, without any 'raison d'être' uses any means of staying and perpetuating power. Unless you tell me that it is your intention to cooperate with the 'excess-right' - not to use a negative expression - of the Independent Greeks, with whom you do not agree to anything. Nothing! You don't have a common reason. Forget the issues of Macedonia and go to family issues. Do you agree on any of your views on family law with this party? Referring to the issues of the freedom of the individual, do you agree to anything with this party? Let's go to the issues of any social expression and event. Do you agree to anything with this party? Even in the matter of the Church, do you agree to anything with this party? Tell us, what is the least element that allows you to be under the same strand in governance? But do you want to leave the ANELs? Have you been told too many times? Let us go to the European framework. You joined the Left Party, from which Mr. Melanson even asked to throw you out?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Teddy, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u223	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. I don't want to abuse your kindness and your kindness. Forget that. At the same time, do you go as observers to the Socialist Party and seek there too to join and take KINAL out, by exercising any European influence you can, yes or no? What are you? And you're doing the even more funny thing. You appear before President Trump as his fans. Excuse me, okay, we talked about flags of convenience. We have seen a lot in this life, in this Parliament, in this country. But for God's sake! You've exceeded every limit! In this sense, today's birthday is important, beyond their anniversary, because this country must have some firmness and because without stable specific parties with specific views, with their consistency, with their presence in public life, society is taking the wrong example. It deals with politics, relativizes politicians, rejects them in full and goes to expressions, which are universally unacceptable and I hope and believe they will be able to be removed from the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u224	I would like to ask the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u225	Now who should I give the floor to? Mr. Juliarakis or Mr. Manda, as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u226	Me, me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u227	The Minister has asked for the floor. Make it clear how you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u228	I want to speak first and then Mr. Juliarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u229	Okay. We'll give the floor first to Mr. Manda. Mr Minister, after Mr Manda, do you want the floor or do you want the floor, after the speakers and the rapporteurs are placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u230	For just a minute, I'd like to speak after Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u231	Good. Mr. Mada, will you take all the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u232	No, I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u233	You deserve it, it's not a matter. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u234	On economic issues and on what happened in 2015 after the derailment of the New Democracy programme, which was never able to reach this strange date, I will not say much, because we have said so many times and I imagine that perhaps Mr Juliarakis can be placed in it. However, because there has been a more general reference, I would say, by Mr Teddy, to the identity of our party and his concern about how much left-wing we are and how radical left-wing we are, I would like to say two words and explain a few things, because we are likely to be watching the Greek people or some people, in any case. And special mention has been made of our cooperation with the Greek Party of Independents, and Mr Teddy's questions, and the way he has placed the various things, is to say that we are, in any case, a party, a political force of all times that we are going with everything, we find them with everyone, and in any case, we are doing all this to keep up with government power. For the other authority, let's not talk, it's another conversation. I mean, then, in response to these, that Mr. Dendias, who I think has a moderate approach to things, cannot understand certain boundaries and limits, which exist or even certain positions, which exist on the part of SYRIZA, because he was probably never in the course of his life, did not pass through the left area, unless I am wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u235	It's never too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u236	...and he doesn't understand a few things, which for some people, which may in any case have passed through the left space may be a more common place. And I'll say two, three more specific things: Firstly, working with a party with which you have major differences in ideological issues and in many approaches to social life, but with a specific programme to get out of the memorials and economic policy, which has been implemented in previous years and in the fight against the outbreaks of corruption, interactive issues, etc., I think that they are neither unprecedented at European level - not only for our country, but also here there are similar historical data, which I imagine can be recovered from Mr. Dendias' memory - but much more clearly that from the first time we of the Independent Greeks, with which we have a sincere cooperation, have not concealed these things, we have said so clearly. And these, along the way, manifest themselves in certain specific cases of bills, provisions, etc. But what New Democracy has actually targeted is not enough to make us more progressive, more left-wing, more prudent. What he's been targeting is to break this government co-operation to go to the long-standing elections. We'll go, Mr. Dendas, don't be in a hurry in the autumn of 2019. A few months left. Do not rush, because the more you are in a hurry, the more you make mistakes, and so you do not understand neither our attitude to the United States of America nor our attitude to Russia - as others do not understand it - nor our attitude to China and you do not understand what a policy is going to say, which is multi-level, has targeted and solved problems, such as the problem with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which I think all the forces of the democratic arch must contribute to putting an end to this adventure. I think that trying to show SYRIZA as a party of all time or in confusion, or I don't know what else, I think he's on the side of Officer Opposition. It is not our concern - and we can have a very specific debate in the public debate too - to see what is happening to each individual issue - and we return it, I would say, because this main thing which, unfortunately, Mr Teddy has to deal with within it - is the nationalist and right-wing viewpoints which, unfortunately, have taken the upper hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u237	Minister, you have asked for the floor. Two minutes enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u238	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dendias described the completion of the third financial adjustment programme as a procedure specified to be completed, such as any contract which ends. I would remind you that the corresponding contracts were concluded at the end of the first programme, but unfortunately they also took a second time. Such contracts ended with the end of the second programme, but inevitably needed third parties, while in the summer of 2018 the end of the third contract did not need a fourth. And it did not take a quarter for the following reasons, and that means exiting the programme: firstly, public finances have now been orbited sustainable. I don't think you can question that. I don't think anyone can doubt that anymore. Because of this, the uncertainty that has troubled the country for several years - and I am mainly talking about the extreme risk of Grexit - has retreated, left. The country's credit rating is stepping up - step by step in the last year. The cost of borrowing has fallen from 11% to 4%. It remains high, significantly lower than it was one, two, three or more years ago and with a view to reducing further, once the turbulence in Europe, due to Italy, but also to the emerging economies of Turkey and Argentina retreat. Above all, the economic recovery has begun. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We're talking about the sixth quarter of positive rhythms. Unemployment is falling and the preliminary draft budget submitted to Parliament on Monday - I end, Mr President - has been the first draft budget since 2010, which reflects a change in the budget policy mix in a direction that is friendly to growth, which strengthens social protection, which extends rather than delays. These define the end of the programme and not the expiry date of a contract. But since I am in Stepma, Mr President, I would like to wish New Democracy many years for its forty-four years. Anniversaries are always a good occasion for reflection. I think that the New Democracy would do well to reflect why its current form differs from the New Republic of Panagiotis Kanellepoulou, Panagios Papaliguras, Konstantinos Chatsos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the speeches, the seconds of the rapporteurs and speakers. The first is Mr. Dimitriadis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to mention three things in my dentistry. The first concerns this as a result of the bill and the criticism made about the bill, which I must admit was a critical assessment of satisfactory, positive and showed that we have the possibilities in the new era of our debate in our Parliament in terms of quality, in terms of consensus and perspective for the interests of the Greek people and the Greek society. This debate, however, has highlighted two other areas, one on the debate, which has been held in the committees, but also on the one hand on the amendments we have tabled. The third issue is the fact that this debate is on a case-by-case basis, which follows on to the budget, where we had a series of positions, which in advance were trying to anticipate things, which are not really the case, so I just have to say a few basic things. As far as the amendments, which have been tabled and the debate that has been produced all this time in committee, but today in plenary, with the amendment tabled by the KINAL, concerning the transfer of ten thousand KECs, i.e. real estate, to the supreme building, which is called 'location of real estate', I think it has been demonstrated and demonstrated by the procedure in our Parliament that it is not a transfer until the control of these real estates is completed, whether or not they are compatible with their transfer to the supremacy. If this is done, and all those buildings of public interest are excluded from these ten thousand OEMs, then the non-transfer of the properties to the excess will be completed. Another issue concerns the amendment to the Ship Register. Indeed, it is particularly important that we have a register of ships, which not only regularises a process which was not in existence, but also brings revenue to the Greek State and operates as a pillar, as a development perspective for islands and tourism, which, in conjunction with yesterday's draft law on the waterways, which has been completed, we can well hope that it can subsequently take off communication in our island land, which is very important for our country, but also development opportunities in relation to either tourism or in relation to the economy of island development. Another issue concerns the abolition of the personal dispute for the officials of the Ministry of Finance, where there is an amendment incorporating in this abolition of personal differences and the officials of the Financial Council, the officials of the Ministry of Economy and Development and the Court of Auditors. Here I have to present to the House, precisely because I was the majority rapporteur, that there are still two groups of workers to deal with this issue of personal disparity, but that is not the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. It is a rest of the teams of the secretariats of the Ministry of Economy and Development and the Greek Farmakos Organization. We were not able to deal with this, in relation to this amendment, but obviously it is in our view, so that we can see it then, because it really is very important. The fourth issue raised by the hearing concerns pensions. The parafiscality and the waiting of the CIAAL Officer that, in the end, according to our commitment two years ago, the personal difference for those pensioners who have it will be abolished by pensions from 1-1-2019. It has been abolished - I think - in the most serious and responsible way. Our international interlocutors have said so as to do so by the European Union. In particular, Mr Sedeno has made it clear, but there is also our argument, namely that it is a regulation that is purely budgetary and not developmental, and precisely because we have achieved the budgetary objectives, there is no reason to abolish the personal difference in that part of the pensioners. So we believe that this process will be successfully completed, but it combines - and I am going to the last part - with the argument of Officers of Anti-Population and of KINAL, particularly regarding the budget. As I said in my introduction to the bill, we have already entered a time of normality. In short, it is a time of transition from the plight of the past to what is social law. At least that's what we're trying to do, and that's our political goal. The budget, which we have tabled for the first time, is our own, by an adapter who has been to date - because it was adapted to a number of obligations which the country had and commitments due to the programmes and the memorandum that was linked - is also being extended to its structure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Because, although we have actually agreed on surpluses of 3.5% - which, not least, we have been doing for three years and are sure and accepting and accepting all our international interlocutors in the European Union that we can achieve in 2019 and 2020 and 2021 and 2022 - because the surplus will be 4.2%, this 0.7% difference in the surplus we can use for the areas that we need to support this expansion. In short, we can make reductions where it really is important to do so, and the budget does so. In other words, the ENPI is down to 30% in two years, in insurance contributions to a number of categories, in income tax, in social security contributions for young people. We also have the fact of changing the hiring ratio from one to three, which was going to one by one by one by strengthening health. In short, 2019 for us is a great year of turning from its policies of subjectivity to the policies of dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u241	The rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Vésiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u242	I will need a minute, Mr President, because I have been placed and explained our position on the amendments to my prototype, both me and Mr Denkias, the Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy. I will repeat, Minister, what we have also requested from the Minister who has left. In order to vote on the amendment by the Ministry of Education under the general number 1763 and by special number 260, we want the amendment to be broken and the third paragraph, which speaks of issues relating to the mushrooms of Thrace, should be deleted because the first paragraph of this amendment has positive provisions. It is about increasing moleculosis in student transfer, low income, and we want to vote on it, although it is incomplete and we said that it should also provide for an increase in moleculosis for students members of multiple families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. The reason for this is the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a formal remark to both Mr Tindemans and the representative of SYRIZA. The logo of the "Change Movement" shall not be misinterpreted. We New Democracy do not call it 'N.W.' or 'N.', 'D'. Same goes for SYRIZA. I would therefore ask that we be treated with decency. I now come to the issues. Mr President, I will not go into the implicit way that the Minister of Finance is dealing with his political opponents. This is not about me personally, although it made a personal reference to me and confused me with Theodorakis and others. He said, finally, he meant Kutsuko. But he does that to others. I will only stand by the point of view, because the issues are very serious. I didn't destroy the Step. I, firstly, charged the responsibilities of the SYRIZA Government for the loss of the EUR 25 billion of the Financial Stability Fund, of the CFS, which had the shares of the Greek banks that were depleted. And on the occasion of yesterday's black Wednesday I said that there is a problem of uncertainty and insecurity in the Greek economy, that the market is shallow and that obviously Maximos' analysis yesterday that what happened was because there was a speculative attack is a lack of. There may have been a speculative attack. However, with a turnover of EUR 100 million, these results cannot be achieved. And I would like to stress now - and that is why I am saying - that we as a PASOK, as a Democratic Incorporation, as a Movement of Change, have never compromised and never said to investors: 'Don't come to Greece, because you don't know what will happen to you'. SYRIZA did this. I want you, Minister, to read Mrs Gennimatas' communication carefully after the meeting with the Association of Greek Banks today and to invite you on this basis to take your responsibilities, because we cannot hide the problem under the carpet. Markets see much better than some of us and you need to make decisions. Our proposal is for the so-called 'bad bank'. Already the 'BLOOMBERG', which I read just now, has a scenario for a similar proposal of a special vehicle. Take your decisions, don't waste the problem. If you want us to agree here, it is Parliament, to come with soberness and without his logic "to charge our political opponents". The second point raised by Mr Tsakalotos concerns the fact that we have invested in not cutting pensions. I would remind him again that we voted against the Katrugalou law, we voted against the re-budget, the cut in the personal difference. We have tabled a proposal for a law, our delegation put it in the troika and I and Mr Kegeroglu personally in the SPD delegation, because we believe that not only should personal differences be cut, but the Katrugalo law should be reversed, because the reductions are here before us. And because Mr. Juliarakis spoke of the contract that ended, I would like to say this. Minister, with the modesty and courtesy that he sees you, I would like to note that we are in a lasting contract. It expires in 2022 in relation to the surpluses, in 2032, in 2060 and in relation to the surplus is 2125, more landed. I now come to an issue to which the SYRIZA rapporteur referred, because we have tabled this amendment. In order not to fight again - I do not want - let Mr Tsakalotos reply to our question and submit the figures of ten thousand and nine hundred real estates, so that Mr Mandais, too, can know who is in Yannina, that the rapporteur, too, is in his constituency, and then that we can see whether or not they are going. It is his basic constitutional and parliamentary obligation. In the ordinary practice of the government, we have serious amendments. It is one amendment which, while we had a bill on tourist ships, comes and says that it suspends the application of the register and should have implemented the register of tourist boats. And in this amendment, it has a regulation on tax secrets. Watch out, they can't pass through the evil and softly the issues of tax confidentiality, because when you relax tax secrets, you close the eye to the tax evasionist. There must be confidence in the tax authority. And we have asked and have not been answered from now on: are interbank associations a bank company that will collect? Are they collecting companies? What is this and what is the need for this regulation? We haven't received a reply. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the regulation on the EBRD, here is evidence of the government's curiosity. It's been working for two years, it doesn't have an organization yet, they want the employees to leave, and what does the arrangement say? That he'll pass through the president's and commander's office. So if they're going to leave three hundred who've applied for, we're going to pick out what SYRIZA's ruffles are and let the others get there. Hey, no! This arrangement is dangerous. If you want, suspend the transfer procedure until the organization process is done. With regard to the other two amendments, I would like to say that we will vote on them. This is the one mentioned in the molecules for transcriptions. We should have heard both the multiples, but also the one mentioned in the amendment to Law 4053 on services of general interest. And I come to one final comment and I finish. Our amendment on the fact that the benefit of the frontier was not incorporated into the personal difference was rejected. Minister, you're at the General Accounting Office. Ask them to tell you. Like also our amendment in which we apply the decision of the Council of State on the allowance of liability to the Heads of Nursing Services. With this, Mr President, I have completed and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one of the arguments that helped you come to power was the promise that you had made to delete the shameful debt. In fact, you also set up a special committee in the House to calculate the exact haircut. Four years have passed, Minister, and your government has added an additional EUR 20 billion to Greece's debt, which refers to the draft budget to which the Minister of Finance mentioned earlier, Mr Tsakalotos. In particular, the central government debt is estimated to rise to EUR 357,250 billion or to 195,1 % of GDP compared to EUR 329,9 billion or 184,7 % of GDP in 2014. Your Government may argue that this debt increase within 2018 is temporary and is due to the creation of cash available security or ‘cash buffer’, as they are said, and is temporary. However, borrowing, Minister, has been done and, unfortunately, interest is running. However, because the Greek people do not understand these terminologies, such as the one I mentioned earlier, the 'cash buffer', the'medium-term', the 'long-term' and you, like all your predecessors, have not even bothered to explain exactly what they mean and what you are doing. Explain to a simple citizen, to a man who has little knowledge of how it is done eight years ago - and I asked Mrs Papanatsiou earlier - in her memoirs with a debt of 128% of GDP, and today your co-government should come and tell us that we are getting out of the memoirs with the debt abroad has gone up to 195% of GDP. In order to believe this, we must believe that we are living in a utopia, Minister. Give us an answer about how it is done with 128% of GDP to enter the memos and go out with 195%. These are things that need explanations. There was a reference from the Parliamentary Representative of the Government in his denture that an end should be made to adventure in the scotter. No one, however, from the so-called democratic arch or constitutional arch, as you say, has entered the process or the trouble of explaining to us, but also to the Greek people who are watching us, what exactly is the problem with Greece in the scepticism and what will be the problems that will be encountered if they are not solved? If you're going to solve this with the Ambassadors' deal, don't ever save and solve it. Indeed, the Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has also made a statement that some within Parliament are not entitled to speak of Macedonia by referring to ideological ancestors. Our ideological ancestor was the national ruler Metaxas and Ion Dragumis. Your ideological ancestors are the ones who signed the Ribentro and Molotov Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u247	The special speaker from the Communist Party, Mr Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I shall dwell on the substance of the issues raised by this particular bill that we are discussing. I have listened carefully to the debate both in the committees and today in the House. The government welcomes the fact that it has found - and this is indeed - a consensus from the majority of the opposition parties, both from the New Democracy and from the Democratic Integration, the Potami, the Centron Union. They're voting for it. What was the main argument of these parties in line with this bill, as the government promotes? We agree, he says, basically, that we are a party that agrees with the European Union and therefore we cannot vote for directives that come from there. Is that right? It's obviously right. That's right. And it is not a simple matter, a simple agreement, but an agreement on a strategic issue. This agreement, however, on this strategic issue, such as the European Union, cannot hide an agreement on another strategic issue. What's that? Let's see, what's the particular bill we're talking about? Is he liberating Central Securities Repository Services? He's releasing them. Do you all agree on this? You agree. What do you agree with? You agree on the even more free action of capital. That's what you agree. You agree on the facilitation of the free movement of capital, no obstacle. You also agree to making the purchase of securities more attractive in our country to investors, local and foreign. That is what the explanatory statement says. We don't. So you are not just Eurolagens, as it has been heard in this Chamber, but you also agree in essence on the road, in the way the economy is organised, which at the centre of its attention has the free action of capital, with a view to the maximum profit rate. This is the agreement you want to hide, only saying that 'because we agree with the European Union, we are therefore voting on this bill'. The second thing I want to point out in my time is this. First of all, I would like to say that we agree with a number of articles in Part Three, other provisions, etc. I am referring to Articles 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 44 and 45, which we shall vote on. We particularly agree with Article 45 because it has also improved with the legislative improvements that have been made. After all, we have pointed this out in the committee debate and it has been taken into account, that is to say, it includes other public services and the Ministry of Economy and Development. I would like to point out two - three issues and refer to two - three amendments. First, with regard to Articles 38 and 39 concerning the restoration of specific issues raised by those articles in the Attica fire. We agree, we vote on them. However, what has been done so far in this particular matter, what has been stated to be happening, does not address the whole problem. From the outset, as a Communist Party in Greece, we talked about direct compensation for both residents and professionals in the region to 100% of the total damage. In the debate in the committee, we have also noted a number of issues that remain open today and which are calling for a immediate solution without delay. I would like to say - I do not want to repeat them, in any case, whoever wants to solve problems can refer to what the JRC said and to the minutes of the committee debate - that from this point of view it is crucial for the people in the region to demand with their struggles that they claim to deal with problems relating to the region as a whole. And they face people's problems like anti-military protection, hospital existence in East Attica, school infrastructure issues, etc. In our view, popular intervention and action to overthrow the policy that is intensifying the commercialisation of land and forests is needed. A minute, Mr President, to close with the amendments. With regard to Amendment No 1763/260 by the Ministry of Education, here and here we object in the following sense. There are positive points which we want to vote on and there are articles in the same amendment on which we have reservations. For example, we agree with the translations and we want to vote on them. As we agree with direct recourse to the Greek legal order by the Muslim minority. In the other two, however, we have reservations. It's good to split up. In any case, we will vote for this amendment. I would like to point out, however, that the rest of us have reservations and we would vote 'at present' if they were voted separately. For Amendment No 1770/263, which concerns the compensation of the universal service for the years 2016 and 2017 for the ELTAs, we agree. And we will vote for it. But look at that. This is the result of the liberalisation of postal services as well. We give 15 million a year to cover what? The barren, the border areas, for the work to be done there, so that there can also be a branch of the ELTAs. The cost, however, is not covered, with the result that sooner or later there will be a problem in the future and that branches will be closed down in border regions. We agree, of course, to give these 15 million, but our view is that they are very little. That's our opinion. And finally, I shall refer to the transitions of the FBI. We agree that the entity is already staff deficits. If, however, a secondment or transfer is necessary in exceptional cases - for example for reasons of health invoked - why should this be the case of the Minister and not be judged by the Staff Board on specific criteria rather than generally and unreasonably? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u249	The special speaker from Potami, Mr. Psarianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. We said that in this bill, the first and second part, we will vote on it as a whole, because it is incorporating directives or improvements, obligations for the European partners. In Part Three, we have several arrangements. I also said in my prototype that the flight allowance granted to Article 35 cannot be granted to everyone except to those who really deserve it. Otherwise, we should take all the workers and the employees everywhere on board and not just the Civil Aviation Agency those who do not fly to take a flight allowance. In Article 36, if it is a positive arrangement to speed up the state's repayment to both legal and natural persons, we all know that the state owes more than 3 billion individuals up to now. It was 2.7 billion and another 300 million were now added. The state owes individuals and their citizens more than 3 billion to natural and legal persons. To settle these reimbursements to all citizens and not by choice to some groups that are friendly or of interest to us or which belong to our clientele. Article 38 exempts ninety-nine victims from the catastrophic fire in Matti, New Buja and the region there. The injured and the survivors are much more in need of aid than the heirs of death, who have property that has not suffered anything or that are in other areas. That's not fair. It's just a populist tip to cover our responsibilities that we let this disaster happen and we didn't take the measures we had to take. And now we give a pocket money to the deceased and not to those who have been rescued or who are injured or who live and lost their property. In Article 44, a person recruited in 2000 as a high school graduate if he obtains a university degree in 2010, will retrospectively take his degree from 2000 or from 1990 if he receives the diploma by 2018. This provision is also unfair - because it is retrospective for future graduates or for those who graduated recently - to take retrospectively since they started working while they were high school graduates. It is also an unjust and specific provision that I do not know exactly what it hides. It may hide, let's say, cases like the lady in Chania, a civil servant who had a fake degree and was acquitted because, he says, the forged degree faked it in order not to feel disadvantaged to the others who were lawfully graduates with regular degrees. This provision, retrospectively as senior school graduates, people who received their degree the other day, is also out of logic. In both committees and my prototype, I have referred to a number of things that need to be regulated, but they need to be regulated fairly. If we get to the point of saying that we have come out of the memoranda and the crisis, we have to do everything and do what we want, give everyone everything. Because there is, we said, national independence and popular sovereignty, we have come out of surveillance and tough surveillance of loan-to-driven lenders who have been blackmailing us for so many years. Now we're free. We can do whatever we want, ruffles, recruitment, give increases. And for pensions, why now are we talking about whether or not Europeans agree to cut or remove the pension cut? For the pensions we voted, you voted for the pension cut, and now you are looking to be released from your vote and to convince or "false" our partners, these blackmailers, that "all right, we voted, but let the pension cut we have voted on now be lifted." And it says this budget - which is a budget 'or it will rain or snow or good weather it will do' - is not a Janus budget with two faces, but has three - four - we will try to remove the pension cut, which we have voted on, and we will not do in return for what we have said we will do. Or we're gonna do what we've said we're gonna do and cut down pensions. Or one or the other, that is, we're being fooled here. It goes on to say, in just Greek, that if we don't cut them, they won't cut them, and if they're cut they're cut. We do not understand exactly that logic and the bazaars that are going on at these levels. I have to say that the net outlet to the markets doesn't exist. There's no way out on the market because the markets where we were playing junkies, dugs and buds are now playing some saxophones from the outside and a little bit of contrabasa. And we saw what happened now with the turbulence in the banks, which the government says 'it's all right, it's not happening, it's not happening. It is a simple move of markets across..." etc. In other words, it reminds me of what we said when we did the capital control, that in two months the capital control will be lifted, there will be no. And I was saying myself and others on the channels that capital control - not capital control, because we do not put's' pluralism in the Greek version of words - will last for over two years. And "we had to get beat" on the channels because we were told by all the ministers responsible, State Secretarys and MPs of SYRIZANEXEL that for two months the capital control, which the foreigners actually imposed on us, was not us alone. All these fairy tales we need to get everything back and start telling some truths from the beginning. Say, let's say we're cheated, that we're deceiving, that we're trying to do things, but we can't do it, or if we can, now that we're free and free from surveillance and supervision, we're not doing it. To make the benefits program with allowances and all these tricks that have been made for so many years by all to special groups of customers, while the social group has suffered appalling damage and the country has been destroyed by such special preferences and care for special groups. Instead of looking at how we can make a number of "clients", our own and get from the private sector taxes and pay a number of "bugs" to the services we have now and put them from here and there on hires and rosés, we can objectively see how we can move forward with the development of the country, an economic development that will be the best thing for all of us that can happen from now on and for us and for our children and we have a real development and stop saying whether there is fair or unfair growth. Any development is fair and benefits everyone, and the majesty of capital and the workers and the ordinary citizens and the pluralism and the people's families, and we avoid the scrubbings and words we use all the time to impress and be popular with the cafés. We need to start talking about true sizes and perspectives and not mocking ears or playing and looking after and giving tips to special client groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Fisherman, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u252	I would like to tell you that the net outlet on the markets does not exist and the pensions must tell us clearly whether they will be cut and we will not do the other things we promised or if they are not cut and we will do the other things we promised or vice versa. To decide to speak clearly, to stop selling a fairy tale and to give low-priced hay to hay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u253	Mr Minister, you have the floor for one minute, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to make one or two clarifications. First of all, in relation to the preliminary draft budget it has been said - I will repeat it once again - that the preliminary draft incorporates only one scenario for budgetary policy in 2019. It's Table 2.8, 2.9. The structure - if you like, the form - of the preliminary draft differs from that of previous drafts. It has a base scenario that incorporates what has already been legislated, without any new interventions. It has a second table describing what the Government intends to legislate for 2019 and finally has table 2.8 which, as I said, reflects the fiscal policy of 2019. However, the preliminary draft budget for the first time this year should be submitted in the context of the European Semester. European Semester means a framework for the coordination of the budgetary policies of the Member States of the European Monetary Union. It must be submitted so that the European Commission can work on it, that it can agree with the European Commission, just as it will do for all the other budgets of the countries - members of the European Monetary Union. That's the procedure, Mr. Fisherman. The fact that the program is over doesn't mean that you can do what you want. The European Monetary Union involves privileges and obligations. And your obligation, regardless of Greece, is Germany, is France...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u255	So the program isn't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u256	Apparently it's over. That's what I'm explaining. The European Semester means coordinating budgetary policies of all the Member States of the euro area whether they have or have not had a programme. That must be understood. Others don't like it, others like it. To the people he likes, that's the rules. I'm stopping my speech here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u257	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we proceed to the vote, let me make two announcements to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and five teachers from the Dutch school "ROELANDS LYCEUM". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second communication relates to a document of the PESA and Civil Protection Unit to the President of the Parliament and thus to a briefing of the plenary. The information lies in the trial activation of all civil defence sirens on Tuesday 9 October 2018, with an opening time of 11.00' and an end time of 11.05'. I mean, it's gonna take five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u259	What do you want, Mr. Fisherman?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to say a half word about the amendments that I have failed to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u261	You had ten minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u262	No, I have to say our position on the amendments. In some respects and some articles or parts of the amendments we agree not to others. That's why they come half-three, half to you, half to you, half not to be forced to vote on them. Where we agree, we would like them to be distinguished, so that we can vote on them. However, because we have an industry of amendments and they come together in every bill and dozens of amendments, warmly, once they come out of the oven, at the last minute, which we do not even have time to see - and we have seen them a little today - we will vote'residents' for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u263	Good, Mr. Fisherman. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I Central Repository of Titles, II) Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III) Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance is finalised. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-six articles, four amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles remaining to be voted is shown each time. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u264	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u265	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u266	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘I Central Repository of Titles, II) Adapting Greek Legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions, and III) Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u268	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-04-S1-commons.u269	With the consent of the House at 16.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 5 October 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
