ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 28-11-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions, of Wednesday, 28 November 2018 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Air Carriage Obligations concerning Passenger Records — Adaptation of Legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681 and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 30 November 2018: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 181/26-11-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, entitled ‘Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 176/21-11-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Definition of a new Secretary-General for Information and Communication". 3. The 189/27-11-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems to meet individual needs in firewood of the residents of Mykes in the Regional Unit Xanthi". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 182/26-11-2018, a timely question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is proclaiming a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and turmoil." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 117/30-10-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Directly addressing the problems of Argolida's export company GERFA - G. N. FRAGISTISS" - 2,000 producers, 400 and 700 workers in the air." 3. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 4. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 5. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 6. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". We begin the debate with the first under No 179/26-11-2018, a topical question by the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "Increased Turkish provocativeness in the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean". Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today is really timely, because Turkey with declarations and, above all, with action, calls into question International Maritime Law on several occasions. This creates a particularly dangerous situation in the eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. At the same time, the government has been sending contradictory messages about how we should deal with this issue. I am referring specifically to the meeting with Mr Erdogan of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who would do well to be a Foreign Minister here today, because these issues are serious. On September 25, following this meeting, a positive signal is given that Greek Turkish relations have passed in a better period. What's next? The two worst months of the year are followed by violations and Turkish provocativeness. In particular, I am saying that in October, a few days after this meeting, where the Government issued this positive message, there are two hundred and fourteen violations, three hundred one violations, with twenty-five armed formations of aircraft and fifteen involvements. The same thing goes on in November. On a specific date on 22 November, a few days ago, in other words, where we have ten armed Turkish aircraft and forty-one infringements in the Aegean airspace. But that's not all. There are statements, and I am not only referring to the nationalist party of Mr Bachtelli, which speaks of a cruel recompense and a response to Greece. He is also the representative of the government party, he is the Minister of National Defence Akar, he is last Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan with statements that are not just counterproductive, but dangerously provoking. What is the cause of this misrepresentation of governmental estimates, predictions and events, Minister? Why did you think things were going better while things went much worse? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Let me remind you that the year that passed, in 2018, is the worst atmospheric and energetic year of Greek-Turkish relations for many years. It's the year after Erdogan's visit. Then we said that this visit, instead of improving, poisoned Greek Turkish relations. The facts came to confirm. One last thing: You're talking about communication channels. Welcome and they must exist, but where are they, who are they, and how are they working? One channel of communication is the Supreme Cooperation Council, which has not been held for a year. Indeed, what was planned to happen after the visit Erdogan was not made at all, namely that of February 2018. Until now, it hasn't happened. There hasn't been a year. That's the one. Secondly, the investigative contacts for demarcation of a continental shelf and possible recourse to the court with this object. Exploratory contacts don't take place, they don't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Kumucaco, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u5	These are very serious things, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. The other channel was Steering Commite, the Steering Committee. There we were discussing all bilateral relations, but this has evolved into a meeting of Secretary-Generals who were mainly discussing, at the end of the day, air navigation confidence-building measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Kumucaco, let the Minister reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u7	This channel doesn't work either. Tell us who the channel is that works and why it's hidden. We need to know him. That's what's demanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u9	Mr Colleague, you know - because it is a constant feature of Turkish foreign policy - that Turkey is constantly acting as a review force seeking to question the data of international law in the region, by rhetoric and by acts. You also know that the policy of our side is to have International Law as the support of national law and not to leave any unanswered moves on the other side, which are intended to 'root' regions in the Aegean Sea and create a fait accompli. This reaction is taking place not only by acts, with the continued presence of our Armed Forces in the region and the systematic stirring up of any attempt to create de facto works, but also by diplomatic means, so that there is no margin on the other side to carry out its strategy. Do we have a development at this level? Just because our policy was based on two fundamental pillars of tactics, to strengthen the country's international position and to promote tripartite cooperation in the general region of the Eastern Mediterranean, we now have a situation that at diplomatic level highlights our country's position more promoted than ever before and Turkey's position more isolated than ever before. A simple comparison of this year's communication from the European Council of the European Union condemning Turkey's actions as illegal and contrary to international law and the corresponding one issued after the crisis in Imia shows the truth. For the first time the European Union clearly calls on the other side to remain committed to international law and not to make any challenges. The nervousness of the other side is explained precisely by its isolation into another crucial area for national interests, the confirmation of the right of Cyprus to exercise its sovereign rights in the wealthy sources. It is therefore precisely the opposite of what you are describing. Obviously, our country cannot follow - precisely because it is a force of peace, sobriety and based on international law, a pillar of stability and security in the region - the rhetoric of the other side. When we hear in the Turkish Parliament that "Aise must return to Cyprus" - that is, a direct threat to the resumption of Turkish invasion - we will not respond by saying that we will send you to the "Red Miles" because it is not the character of our country and it is not convincingly similar "professions". As far as the specifics you mentioned are concerned, the statistics we have do not show a quantitative difference in these ongoing policies of challenge in the Aegean in the month of October. It is true that the presence of “BARBARBAROS” gives quality a new text to this tactic of Turkey, but it was answered by a protest démarche on 18 October, when the Turkish Ambassador was served in this regard. Also, your reference to the communication channels and the Prime Minister's statement again, I think, is not happy, because the Prime Minister has not spoken of improving the situation in our dialogue. He just said that there is a relative improvement in the climate, a positive improvement in the climate in Greek-Turkish relations. Where is this improvement? Whilst the dialogue has stopped - what you said - not because of our will, but because of the provocative movements on the other side which do not allow for dialogue - is right, we have repeatedly called for the resumption of the exploratory contacts and now we are calling for it - we have seen the intention of the Turkish side - to see whether it will be verified and concrete action - to relaunch the dialogue with the Prime Minister for the trip to Constantinople. So this is a positive fact - at least a start of positive developments - which we will see how it develops. Obviously the visit will take place if the conditions exist, namely to promote further Greek-Turkish relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u11	A final word, Mr President, about the channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u12	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u13	Deal, but for there to be one unity in my answer. So when we talk about communication channels, what do we mean? In view of this Turkish provocation, there should be diplomatic routes to avoid the worst accident. In other words, if it happens without the intention of either side - not our own, without the intention of the other side, we are always a philanthropic force - one fact in the Aegean, not to go to third parties, but to have something similar to 'hotline', the famous red phone installed in 1963 - as you know - after the Cuban crisis. What form is this taken? To be able to communicate directly and directly with the usual media, the office of Prime Minister and the office of President Erdogan, and therefore to have the opportunity to have a dialogue, not the dialogue that systematically promotes the interests of both sides through the structured diplomatic debate, but, as I have said, a channel for disposing of dangerous tensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u14	Good, time's up, Minister. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u15	Minister, objectively, quantitatively and qualitatively, the year 2018 is one of the worst in the history of Greek-Turkish relations. It is the year following the visit of Erdogan to Athens. These are the facts and you can't deny it. With regard to the exacerbation of quality and numerics, I will submit to the Minutes that in fact October, a month after the very positive statements of the Tsipra - Erdogan meeting in New York, it was finally a very bad month, certainly the worst of the year, with many violations and even more armed formations involved. Also, recently, in November, I told you that we had forty-one violations and ten armed Turkish aircraft, and usually the number is two. One more thing, Minister. There is a Turkish agency post about ten days ago that says it has stopped any Greek presence around Imia. The Greek soldiers claim that they are not even in the area now. "After a small military base we did in Tsavos, a ship of the Turkish coastguard 24/7 is patrolling around the rocky islands by blocking illegal immigrants" and says there is no Greek presence. This post has not been officially disproved on the Greek side. Therefore, one concludes that in order not to be disproved it has some counterproductive effect on reality. And that's very serious. I have tabled a written question and I expect a concrete answer. In conclusion, because the period we are going through is very difficult in Greek-Turkish relations and because there is a number of issues and dimensions, which I would say will be good at this stage not to be discussed publicly, and because the Prime Minister, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took over, has promised that he will have a comprehensive debate on the course of the critical Greek-Turkish relations within the National Foreign Policy Council, I think it will be good for everyone and, in any case, in the service of national interest, this debate will take place. With boldness and sobriety, so as not to let misunderstandings or twisted news in the press poison the public debate on such a crucial issue. In any case, the message to Turkey must be clear: Greece, not only the government but also all the political forces, and yet the Anti-Civilisation, we are struggling to send a very clear message to the other side of the Aegean, that neither insulting behaviour is tolerated nor provocative statements nor actions that create conditions for instability, uncertainty, tension and the potential for a crisis in the Eastern Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, because I know you and I suspect you, I really do wonder how you wanted to bring in and reproduce in our own House one of the lowest samples of propaganda on the other side. Is it ever possible for our Armed Forces to leave an inch of Greek soil or of our own waters? How can you ask such things? Such publications are unworthy of any response. I reiterated that our Armed Forces and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Greek Government over time, not only ours, defends our national laws. From there on Turkey's reactions, I repeated earlier, are not a power sample, it is a sign of weakness. He tried to cancel the application of Cyprus's sovereign rights to its energy resources. He failed. For the first time, he heard from the European Union that its tactics in the Aegean Sea should be based. More importantly, the upgrading of our country's international position is not only about Greek-Turkish. When was the President of the United States, the President of Russia, to have met not once but twice the President of Greece with the President of China? Is it accidental that President Obama has chosen our country for his last speech, farewell to history, or is President McCronn's first speech on his vision of Europe? What do they show despite the upgrading of our country's prestige and the peculiarity that the Prime Minister personally has because of his personal involvement in foreign policy? And for all these reasons, then, we should always emit the stigma of firm force. Just because we have an active foreign policy, we consider these negative reactions on the other side to be very spasmous. We, therefore, always have to emit the image of the united front out on these national issues and not go to the internal audience in terms of political gain but in terms of history. That's what we'll do. In the immediate past, there was a convening of the ERCD and it will happen again. And we will obviously continue to pursue relations of peace and friendship on the Turkish side, but based on international law and not on its question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that my colleague Mr Christos Stakouris is calling for a foreign leave for the 3-12-2018. Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u19	So this House has approved the requested permission. I should also like to make it clear to the House that the third with number 169/20-11-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Irakli of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Confronting impacts from the construction and operation of the airport in Kastelli - necessary works and reward benefits for the region", will not be discussed after consultation of the MP and the relevant Minister. Immediately now we will discuss the second question under number 161/19-11-2018, on the second question of the second question of the Member of the Magnesia Parliament, Mr Christos Boukorou, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "At a slow pace, important infrastructure projects in Magnesia will be discussed. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I would expect your Chief Minister to be here, not because your presence is insignificant, but because Mr Spirtz has visited the projects that we will discuss and have a personal perception of developments. I have to put this question down because it is the projects that are still pending and afflicting the society of Magnesia. Of course, the question has been tabled because your Government has completed your four years and no infrastructure work of your Ministry has been carried out in the Magnesia Prefecture. Today's question, Minister, concerns the damage to Eastern Pelion in the Zagora region from the strong weather phenomena at the beginning of 2018, concerns the regional road of Volos and, more specifically, the western part from Burbulith to Larissa Street and also the railway bypass of New Ionia with the well-known "S" project of competence of the "ERGOSE". You will allow me to begin with the emergency, from East Pelion, because at the moment we are talking, Minister, there is still intense weather and rain record and no one knows what dawned on the region. Because the restoration work that has been done since the previous spring is only temporary and not definitive. For projects of 5m euros, only 1,200,000 have been absorbed. A recent study by the Municipality of Zagora for the restoration of 700,000 euros in three points was approved by the Ministry of Interior only 300,000 euros and no funds from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. You know, mountain municipalities have a lack of staff, and now with mobility and without any security differences being taken, these municipalities will be completely without staff and without any possibility of studies. This is an urgent matter and your Ministry needs to be seen again, because the damage will actually get worse in the region and it is a general assessment of the municipality and the residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u21	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, you left the previous colleagues. Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u23	Keep going. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u24	Don't exhaust your rigour on me. Three plays we have to discuss. It's just like a title to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u25	Go on, Mr. Bucoore. There's no prejudice at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u26	Minister, things in Eastern Pelion are critical at Zagora. With regard to the New Ionian railway bypass, I have asked questions several times. Your Government was committed to tender in October 2016. He subsequently committed himself to the tender of the project in October 2017. It was also in October 2018 and now promise January 2019 that the project will be auctioned. Can you make specific commitments about this? On the third topic of the ring of Volos and the Burbilis Larisi project, the Road Infrastructure Directorate has indeed given me an extensive answer on which studies have been approved, which are being completed and which are pending. And there's a lot of loose ends. For the district of Volos, your Government has done absolutely nothing, has not advanced the project a single point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall return to my dentistry, because I see that the President is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u27	No, Mr Buquoore, just for the balance of the debate and because it also follows legislative work. Mr Mavraganis, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u28	I will try to be comprehensive because there are many issues that have been raised by my colleague. The first is to begin with the work of bypassing the 'S' of the housing fabric of New Ionian Volos. This project, as you know, has become an attempt to join the 2014-2020 programme and is under assessment by the managing authority at this time. You should be aware that it is part of the total work of the Volos - Larissa, which has a cost of about EUR 60 million. That was the following issue. In mid-2017, the OSE was asked - in my view correctly - to serve a further social need, which came after the consultation of the OSE, to diversify the engraving line to serve even better and to make the 'S' type bypass in the New Ionia region. This has resulted in differentiated studies. The "ERGOSE" responded, made the new studies, completed them and submitted them to the managing authority. There has been a six-month delay in this matter since archaeology. So that's what's going on. Its funding for EUR 60 million is for approval. I believe that within the next two, three months, we will have the approval so that we can move on to the auction. The second project is the restoration of the road circuit of Pelion. There have been the first four, as you rightly said, rehabilitations, not definitive, but immediate restorations, which were the immediate need for traffic and security and social demand. There, on 3-4-2018, 300,000 euros were disbursed on 13-3-2018, 193,000 euros were disbursed on 14-3-2018, 297,000 euros were disbursed on 20-7-2018 for four instalments, and after forty days for the first three and sixty days for the latter these works were completed. Now for the definitive restoration, a ministerial decision was issued about three months ago by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, to authorize the EEAS to sign a programme contract for the implementation of the project and for technical assistance with the region in order to restore this network and as far as the internal road network with the Municipality of Zagora is concerned. For the purpose of carrying out the project, the studies themselves are prepared by the services of the EEAS and the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure. On the third point you said about the water pipeline damage there, we have adopted an amount of EUR 681,000. Already on 27 November, the decision to disburse an amount of 365.000 euros for the area of Zagora - Dance - Makryrachi, etc. was signed. and 316,000 euros for the area of Tsagarada - Muresi - Damouchari - Papa Water, etc. The Head of Administration will be the Department of Water and sewerage projects in the Region of Thessaly. It will be the EEAS Thessaly, which will be the master of the project and will proceed with these funds. Indeed, because it is urgent - that is what you are very interested in - the process of direct negotiation has been chosen, not a competition with classical methods, to proceed quickly, because you are right that this is a matter of immediate priority. For the rest, I will respond to my dentistry because it is a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I am once again beginning with the third and most urgent issue, that of Eastern Pelion and Zagora. I will not question the sums you have given. What I am saying is that there is a strong concern that new damages will be added to the old ones. Temporary rehabilitation is not progressing quickly. That's what I'm saying. The damages that were calculated by your Ministry for the restoration of the road circuit in this region of East Pelion were in 5 million and if you do the sum of the amounts you said, we are in 1/5. I ask you to speed up and see what has happened in the region, because it will not be possible for the winter months. You know that that's where weather phenomena are very intense. This is a purely mountainous municipality. The inhabitants of Eastern Pelion expect faster rate than the government. As far as the work of the New Ionia of Volos railway bypass is concerned, it can, of course, be part of the overall planning of the work that you said, however, as a project, is independent, as a study and as funding. In response to the "ERGOSE", Minister, she tells me that a tender will be held in January 2019. This is the third time that the "ERGOSE" has been formally committed and has been three years. The program that is integrated, "Railway Projects - Environment and Sustainable Development" is completed in 2023, unless the project is directly auctioned and has a contractual delivery time of two and a half years. We may have problems in the immediate future. That is why the rhythms in this project must be faster. As far as Volos is concerned, however, Mr Minister, it is a disgraceful project, a project which has been afflicting the local society for too many years, under the responsibility of your own government. Your government's responsibility is that in Magnesia in general you haven't put a nail, Minister - not you personally, your government - is closing down four years next month. No plays at all in Magnesia Prefecture. The regional ring of Volos is a breathing project. It is one of the few large cities in the country that has no regional ring. Of course, some of the technical work is needed because of the proximity of the sea and mountains and all these issues, but it did not go any further at all. Now it's a study for the first section of the district, which you're taking and bringing. I keep asking you over the last few years and you say that "yes, this part of the study has been completed, the second part of the study has been completed", but an integrated study and, above all, a commitment to financing this life project does not exist. That is why, Minister, I would like the Head of State or Government to be present because he has a personal understanding of the issues involved in the ongoing visits to the region. Visits do not, however, build works. The completion, maturation, funding of studies and financing of projects are the implementation of the projects. From a government, however, where the Public Investment Programme has demolished it to make surpluses, local communities cannot expect something better. I would ask you, Minister, to give the services a new rhythm. Of course, your Government will not complete these works, it will be completed the next one, but as much time as it is lost it is at the expense of the works itself and at the expense of the local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u32	So let me continue from where I had stopped, because I did not include everything in my answer to my prototype, given that there were many aspects of the honourable Member's question. We are talking about restoration - it is the fourth issue that you raised, Mr Bukoore - the port infrastructure in the Municipality of Agia Larissa, Zagoras and Choretos, where the problem is dealt with on the coastal front by disasters, always February 2018. There is a technical consultant appointed by 15-10-2018 and 15-2-2019, with the contract signed, to deliver to us its deliverable, which will be technical specifications for the project, which is estimated at about EUR 4 million or EUR 5 million and provided for its inclusion in the Public Investment Programme. We therefore believe that since we have up to 15-2-2019 the specifications, we will also be able in the first half of 2019 to make the auction. The fifth point concerning the bypass - which is very important - is, as has been said, a study is currently being carried out by means of a programme agreement signed with the region. That's where this happened. By September 2017, the study anticipating the cyclic level of node was completed and requested in January 2018 that the region become a quadruple and that the studies should be changed. These studies have, in fact, changed. We are in their maturity. Adopted by the Road Infrastructure Directorate on 3-4-2018 and instructed the contractor. The region was consulted, which sent its own proposals ten days ago. And now we are in the final phase, so that the contractor gets the final mandate after ripening with the region's views, to proceed in the first half of 2019 with a comparative table with over 10% of the total cost of the project, on the progress of this project and its implementation. In fact, here, there was indeed a delay in the diversification and the studies that were the region's fair demand for a change in the way this particular transport load is served, with a quadruple practically node, rather than a circular one. So I think that most of them have made a great deal of progress. You are right that there must be a timely pressure from the Members of Parliament on the part of the Ministry and from the Ministry on the part of the services and the region, which is making synergies in this case. Because in fact 2018 was a year where too many natural disasters have arisen not only in Magnesia but in many prefectures and regions of the country. And the services have a good excuse. They've exaggerated themselves. Our natural resources, human resources, our financial resources are exhausted in this direction and we are trying with all our powers to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and three teachers from the 2nd General School of St. Dimitrios. We welcome the children! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Because Mr Kasapidis had an unpredictable obstacle, Mr Minister, Mr Arachovitis, if you will allow us to go to another question. Since Mr Katsotis and Mr Helios are here, we should go to Mr Katsotis's timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u35	Subsequent to the second question by number 187/27-11-2018, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "To withdraw redundancies, protect workers and implement sectoral collective agreements in Food - Tourism". Mr Katsotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. We should welcome the students from St. Demetrios High School. I'm a Brachamite, too! Minister, the legal framework for industrial relations is well known. It has become very anti-American in recent years especially during the time of the crisis. The laws of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, which have been maintained in full by you and have been further expanded, have intensified the circuit of slave trade and, of course, the possibility of them being concentrated on ever larger forms, in groups, by stepping up the exploitation of thousands of workers and the unemployed. A legislative framework which is part of the common strategy of the European Union and the governments for the effective abolition of permanent and stable work, for the generalisation of tyres, precarious and temporary labour relations, with a view to the so-called 'promotion' of workers' mobility. The result of this anti-corruption framework is the replacement of a large part of workers with rights, skilled and experienced by workers hired by slave traders, by cleaning synergies, by others created by tourist companies themselves, by the so-called private capital companies, which you know are created with 10 euros, in order to circumvent laws and collective agreements, to make it impossible to control by insurance funds, labour inspectorates and to replace a large proportion of workers with stable work with flexible forms of work. Large tourist enterprises in recent times, five-star hotels, have implemented all these options that enable them to overcome the decision to extend the collective agreement. The checks carried out by the EIA in the Athens area since the signing of the country's collective agreements up to today confirm with unresolved figures the above, which have created a nightmareous working environment. The 'ERGANI', which you invoke, proves everything we claim. They go beyond the extension of the requirement of the collective agreement with hundreds of redundancies of employees with permanent and stable work and blackmail, encourage them to become members of the IKE or hired by slave synergy, and if they are denied by young workers. What we are asking, Minister, is what you intend to do so that the sectoral collective agreements are actually implemented to all workers whose qualifications are covered by them. What measures will you take to withdraw the redundancies that have taken since the extension of sectoral collective labour agreements and the effort of employers to avoid them being implemented? And if you intend as a Ministry to institutionalise what Katorugalou originally predicted, that is, the minimum composition of staff at hotels, as the unions in Food - Tourism require.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, let me quote this. We have said from the outset that for us a sense of development without protection of work is the same path, it is the development that the country has known from 1993 to 2008, which has given birth to bankruptcy. So if we really want to avoid going back to the path that gave rise to bankruptcy, we must protect workers, we must protect the job as a whole. That is why I disagree with your observation that it has been kept alive, it has continued to apply the whole anti-viral framework. I say this because, first of all, we are debating what measures the Ministry of Labour will take to implement a sectoral convention that has been extended. You know very well that if it had not overturned the anti-government framework imposed in 2010-2014, we would not be talking today about how they extend and how you protect the process of a sectoral contract. Secondly, there is a series of initiatives on the issues of working hours, which concern contractors, which relate to payment orders, the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, together with the reintroduction of collective agreements, which I believe are showing that we are gradually changing a page in the working framework. Now on tourism on the part of the Ministry of Labour and the Inspectorate, it is one of the sectors that we have targeted very carefully since the first moment and we are constantly moving so that we can regulate things. Let me say that in 2017 more than nine thousand checks were carried out on tourist businesses, either hotels or catering. Of these nine thousand checks three thousand eight hundred thirty seven violations were established. The fines that entered were 13.8 million and five hundred two sues. Specifically for 2018, a targeted audit campaign was carried out not only by the Labour Inspectorate, but in cooperation with the ILO and the audit bodies of the OLAF and the Economic Police, where twenty-four thousand two-seven-three audits were audited twenty-four thousand eight hundred seven-seven employees in the operations that we went to and a thousand-seven violations were confirmed. The fines were 4.2 million. After October 4th, the contract has been concluded for hotels and following the very good communication it has and the Inspection with the trade unions, because the doors of the Inspection are constantly open to complaints about all the issues raised by the trade unions, targeted checks were carried out to comply with the contract, precisely in nine major hotel businesses in Athens. In five of them seven contractors were found to operate, where there was an overall check on the issues of payroll hours, etc. So far, what you have described about hundreds of redundancies carried over to the IKE has not been confirmed by our own control activity. Nevertheless, I say again that both the Ministry and the Inspection are open to see these issues and with the club to arrange - if necessary - and a trialogue to move forward. Mr President, I will tell the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u40	Minister, the checks you have said that they have been carried out, the fines imposed and the infringements which have actually been found prove the widespread illegality that exists in this area by abolishing all workers' rights, undeclared work, the 'older' conditions, as all the workers who, if you like, have used to say, this development in tourism. That's well known, and I imagine you know that too. You say that you are protecting the job, that you have changed the institutional framework. But we are telling you, Minister, that the extension of collective agreements, the one you are doing here, is on paper and only a 10% is paid for under the collective labour agreement. This is not just what we are saying, all the checks and statistics that have been carried out so far are saying about how workers in the sector are paid. And it's only a 10%. This cannot worry you and not put you in the face of your responsibilities. You're making a law on extension. How does he apply? What are the measures you're taking? Do you maintain the possibility for businesses to have workers from slave trade offices, as we call them? Do you maintain the framework of the PSCs, of the IMIs and of all that has been legislated so far? If you do not keep them and apply them to the workplaces, then you must take steps not to apply them. It's illegal, but you're keeping it, Minister. This is what entrepreneurs are doing to overcome, if you like, any legislative framework which makes it difficult for them to implement collective labour agreements. So you keep this framework that enables business groups to go beyond what you said, the extension, which they have left on paper and which is why they do not react to the extension. This is why, in practice, each workplace is implementing such forms, so that the statistics record a huge reduction in the wages of employees every year. The International Labour Office, Minister, is well known to have recorded 3.5% reduction in income each year. In other words, in 2017 we had a 3.5% reduction compared to 2016. Of course, in the area where flexibility is generalised, the employment of apprenticeships, which, with the new draft law brought about by the Ministry of Tourism in the name of educational tourism, is expanding, you understand that pay will be around 200 to 300 euros. And when employment here is seven days a week, when there has been a great overthrow in working relations with the seven-day period, with the adjustment of working time, with ten hours a day, all of this composes what we call 'equal working relations' in this sector. So that's what we want you to say, Minister. Finally, "ERGANI" has recorded these changes that have taken place in the companies that you say do not exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Katsotis, the Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u42	...and the U.S.A.A., which has fled the trade unions, the trade unions at this time, has recorded what we claim and I quote in my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u43	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that a crucial element is always in our public positions, but also in our practice, especially in so far as we say that workers must be protected, if we are doing what we are doing, if with what we are saying we are helping the climate, so that things can actually be improved, and if we are helping with a logic or a culture of change, or if we are helping with a logic of defeat. I think that the phrase that 'at the moment of tourism does not change anything, does not do anything more' helps a phase of defeat, especially when we talk about a sector that, beyond the central contract, has extended three other conventions. I will only give one specific example, because the debate in this House is open and society is watching. When in the tourism sector the universal contract involves EUR 780 as the first wage - the lowest wage is EUR 780 - if I am not mistaken, this means that a young man who worked for EUR 511, because he was taking the subordinate, who will be abolished in January, is currently being paid EUR 780. That's reality. And I come to a second element which is a reality. Undeclared work has been falling over recent years and, precisely, we have worked too hard on the Labour Inspectorate. In the high-infrastructure sectors, data showed 20% undeclared work in 1919, while the latter figures show that we are now approaching 10%. You are right that the undeclared has decreased, that what we call "substantiated", but we are now working very systematically in this particular part as well. I now come to the third very specific example of tourism. You know very well, too, because of your work that there was a very big deal of practice and apprenticeship in tourism, forms that were not even recorded in "ERGANI" and many businesses were taking advantage of an empty law with 17%, and they took 17% apprenticeships and 17% practical exercise, reaching the point in practically having in a unit of eighty people under this regime, which we abolished, because 17% is also single for the practical exercise and for the apprenticeship. Moreover, they are now recorded in the ‘ERGAN’, which means that penalties can be controlled and criminalised. Why am I telling all this stuff? I'm telling you, it's a very important job. It is very important that we discuss what measures are to be taken to comply with a sectoral convention, not whether or not the sectoral conventions will come back. I shall say one last sentence here. We have also proved in the past and with measures we have taken on contractors - I say this here too - that we will work and work on all those loopholes that business finds to circumvent contracts. This legislative work is being done at the Ministry, and we will soon be able to respond to specific things, precisely because the audit work shows how the market reacts, and then there is the reaction of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, eighteen students and students and two teachers, from the 4th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It will now be discussed the first under number 180/26-11-2018, a topical question by MP Kozani of New Democracy, George Kasapidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Problems and protests when paying the advance of the basic payment of the year 2018’. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are calling on to deal with a major problem, which relates, in particular, to the payment of European aid to the beneficiary producers, which is related to an issue relating to another ministry. However, the impact on the ratification and drawing up of forest maps falls mainly on producers, farmers and it is a matter for the Ministry that we are leading. In Kozani, Minister, several producers have seen the advances of their aid being quite limited. And the investigation carried out showed that this was mainly due to the process of drawing up and ratifying the forest maps, where some procedures were not properly carried out, and, unfortunately, even parcels which had all the legal conditions and specifications to benefit fully from the aid. What you are calling on, Mr Minister, to heal, is to resolve the problem by means of a formal procedure, so that the next instalment of aid is paid, that the nature of these parcels is resolved and that producers and all the aids are received. But as you very well understand, because this openness can also undermine the support of development programmes, both those in progress and future, if the nature of these parcels is not resolved, you can understand that there will be a serious problem with the aid of Pylon 2. So the question is, if these causes have been identified, which at least in Kosani Prefecture and in other regions throughout the country have led to the partial payment of these aids, and how you intend to cure the problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mr President, with your current timely question you are bringing to Parliament a question which does indeed employ a significant number of producers who have parcels in areas where we have either registered forest maps or partially validated forest maps. Where we had posted forest maps, without ratification, producers have no question until the ratification takes place. So the issue concerns the areas where we have partially registered forest maps. The first question, of course, as you say, is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, in which my colleague has answered a few times in this Chamber and the necessary explanations have been given. But at this point I have to ask some rhetoric more questions and let me say them. Do we want in this country to have forest maps or do we not want them? Do we want to become a normal country, as we all want or want to throw the problem again in the future? Since when has the forest maps been drawn up, when has they been delivered and with what government has they been posted? Finally, is it the forest maps that created this problem or the suspension of forest maps that highlighted the problems? I think that when it comes to who has the courage and political will to become a normal country, the people will judge who it is. On this issue, however, which you are talking about, we have legislated, created and continue to resolve the problems that are presented both with forest maps and with their consequences for payments. Here there is now close cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, to legislate, to find solutions, but always in the context of the Constitution and its interpretation. That's what we have to say. I know very well that you are aware of this, but our producers must also hear that what can be legislated must be done within the framework laid down in the existing constitution. Now, in this regard, technically, as we have said, where we do not have ratified areas and the partially ratified maps, in the areas where we have unresolved objections, there is a regular payment. That's the first. Secondly, those producers who have used the tools, which existing legislation gives them, have been properly paid and this has been the case since their exercise of their pleas, since the application was lodged and not waiting to finalise. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. Third case, cases where the information has actually not reached the OPEKEPE's hands in time. In these cases, after the advance payment, we have had a great deal of coordination with the Ministry of the Environment and Regional Services, so that we can take the cases of the producers who have brought proceedings against them, so that we can incorporate them, so that they can be paid for in the next payment in December. But even those who did not exercise the available tools, which by the way are present in the Ministry of Environment and Energy's manual, which is also posted on the OPECE page and after payment of the advance in this period, and which are now being incorporated, at this time when we are talking and will be paid properly. But there is another case. There is also the case where some, for the alpha or beta reason, even today have not practiced the intended tools they have. And they'll be paid properly. Nobody will lose their rights to basic and green aid or other measures. This will be done, because by June 2019, we are planning another three payments, where the person who is going to put the lawsuits into effect will incorporate the information and be paid for the next three payments. So by June the world must hurry so that it can be paid properly. The rest I'll see you in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you seem to be aware of how serious this is. Besides, your professional status validates this. What I would like to point out and keep from your answer is that the most serious problem is for those who have not exercised all these vindicated tools that you have mentioned in cases where we have dominated forest maps. So there the question is whether the proceedings will be opened, whether there will be a new extension in order to make it possible for these producers too to exercise these legal powers. Because in cases where the process is now under way, those regions that followed the previous maps, have better environment and information and operational to predict such failures. As to the need to validate forest maps, no one disputes that. I would simply inform you that he and other colleagues personally had submitted during 2017 to your predecessor and the Minister of the Environment at least four relevant questions, where we pointed out some failures. That is why extensions were given, as you well know. And with corresponding provisions, these failures or omissions were cured that could - and it was reasonable - exist in the whole process. One of them was this process for which I am now asking you. How will these cases be predicted, where, while we have areas which are either refreshed or still - and if you like - irrigationally or even - development projects, global installations that have been integrated, financed and now come as forests, because they have not been properly informed or because they have not done everything you have said, the lawful tools on time? However, the Greek state recognises these, which is why it incorporated them into development projects, which is why the HSHR accepts them in its statements, and in its statements the ELGA accepts them. This is what you call, Minister, by means of legal procedures, under the Constitution clearly, to heal because they are in danger of losing aid and subsidies both from Pylon 1 and from Pylon 2. I am sure you understand that. And I think that I myself contribute personally in this direction, so that definitively and irrevocably now and the forest maps are ratified, developed and not in these problems which, if they are not healed now, will also follow us in the adventurous way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u51	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I acknowledge and said that in the process since the first suspension of the forest maps and before the legislation on suspension and so far there have been interventions, and so far yours - I know well - where problems have been identified. But I want you to know that this is all taken into account and resolved. I said again. The forest maps did not create the problems. The forest maps highlighted them. Let's find them. They have - let me express - children's diseases. They're coming through. As you have rightly said, the subsequent lists already have a legislative framework which does not present these problems, precisely because we understand that what is happening is resolved. So in the next posters it's broken. However, let me highlight the tools. We have tools for the ratified areas, where we have dominated forest maps. We have both Articles 47 and 47a, as amended, and Article 67 of Law 998/1978, as amended until recently. In these cases we have tools. We also have the tools of legal appeals. In all such cases from the beginning of the submission of the legal instrument of the application, the producer shall be paid. They're dropping the measures, they're dropping the sanctions. He's paid normally. When they finish, since they are of course in favour of the producer, there will be no problem. But let's see another spot. How many is the problem in number? It's about thirty-six thousand seven hundred ATMs. It is an important size, a significant number of producers. In money, however, the amounts involved are very small, precisely because most of the cases relate to a forest island within the parcel. So the parcel is only little influenced by the island. Very few are cases, less than three thousand, where we have an impact on the payment of over 500 euros. So we're talking about a lot of small sums of VAT. Here I want to tell you one more thing. As you have rightly said, there are also issues relating to the regions. We have settlements, we have legacy cases, we have different cases. There we have increased our cooperation with both the region and with the services of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Environment - the addresses of forests, decentralised, etc. - we've stepped up our efforts. Where problems have arisen we are in close contact and what I want people to keep, is that most of the problems will be solved in this payment. By June 2019, when three more payments will be made, after December, the problems will have been resolved to the fullest extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. We move on to her debate with number 119/4-9-2018 question from the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To remove thousands of our fellow citizens, insured by the OAU and OGA, who are today without income and without pension". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat, through parliamentary control, a serious issue for many hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, which concerns the inability to retire, due to arrears of debts that go beyond certain limits and, of course, because of the inability to pay for them. The question has been debated before and it concerns the insured persons of the former OSCE, that is to say, self-employed persons from the OSCE and farmers. Because the Minister in a previous debate told us that it is not a great deal of the number of these people - at least that way we understood it - it has not been a final and just solution. It has, of course, issued a circular, which enables some of those who have the prerequisites to receive the advance pension, the advance allowance. However, the official social security system in the country which has received for many years the insurance contributions of these insured persons and which, due to the inability to pay for a period of time, retains them on the margin. We are reintroducing it if and since it concerns a few people during the ministry, it is made up of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. I've answered the same question twice. To repeat what I at least said. In the meantime, this circular, which solves a serious problem for people in need of survival, has been issued and because they had to be unable to retire. Although they were qualifying for this benefit, they did not take it, because since 2001 there has been a relevant circular of the then government, from which it appears that anyone who was insured did not receive the benefit that we institutionalised, because they were entitled to retire. However, he could not get the pension after he had to. And so we have solved this problem for this category of our fellow citizens, so that there is no one without protection. So the right to this protection - which I think is at EUR 360 - obviously does not cover all the needs of every person, but creates a protection net for these fellow citizens who were completely abandoned in total poverty and could not tolerate this situation, at least from our own government, which is why we have covered it. But your proposal, Mr Kegeroglu, refers to issues which in a systematic way may cause serious social security issues. If, in other words, we take the debt to the heights, which you say, 50,000 for the free traders, they won't have to pay 2/3 of the contributions. They will be retired because, with the fifteen years required as a minimum, the minimum contribution - which you propose to cover for the 50,000 - is for a duration of 11 years. I mean, there's going to be a short period of four years to pay to get a pension that's going to pay off the debt. The same applies to farmers. Two-thirds of life insurance can be owed if we go to 10,000. They'll owe them, they'll be retired for 15 years. You realise that this creates a serious breach - and I told you this before - at the fundamental principle of the Constitution that social security is compulsory, universal and redistributive. And in that sense your thoughts cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u58	After the Minister's position, I do not think we are expecting any dentistry on his part, since he considers that a solution cannot be found. Look, an AIF insurer who has paid thirty years and owes eight or ten years contributions or less, who had the option with the arrangement that we had made in spring 2015 - who voted for most of Parliament's parties - to regulate the amounts due today cannot do so. The government leads him to the privileged allowance. It therefore abolishes the right to the thirty years that it has paid the insurance contributions and which obviously represent a much greater amount than the benefits. I think it is completely wrong for the Minister to refuse to give a solution to the existing debts. We are not talking about a regulation that will apply to the biennial, but about a regulation which will include the debts that have been created so far. Do you want until 20 August, Mr. Petropoulou? Put it up to 20th of August. The debts created in the crisis. But put them on. Eight years, seven, nine, that's all. If you had made a decision that these people are entitled to the national pension, the EUR 384 or the 346 for those who have a lot less years, then it would have a reasonable and pending the possibility of adjusting or paying for their part to add the proportional amount. I would accept that as a first step, but would you transfer them from the socio-security system that is universal and all that you have said to the progeny? That is unacceptable. Preferential pensions have come out for those who do not qualify, for those who are not entitled to a pension. But these people are entitled to a pension, and that is the inalienable one. You have reached the limits, to adopt today's insurance agenda. Three features, I'll tell you. In addition to the abolition of the EKT, in addition to the reduced pensions you are receiving, while paying high insurance contributions, after May 2016 by the Katrugalos Act you are making reduced pensions for most not all. There is also a small category, which does not have significant reductions or may also have increases. But for the vast majority you give very low pensions. You are now coming to add the other concept of today, who says of a privileged allowance. It's a mistake to think you're driving. That these people need even 450 or 400 euros, that's a fact, since you don't give them their pension. No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The national pension and make it easier for them to pay the rest. You can make it easier for them no matter how few they are. Make the set. You have made other arrangements and some of us have supported them and voted. Do it, too. Why do you refuse to do it? It's--it says-- small number. No, the number isn't small. It's a big number. It is not only those who have appealed or appealed to receive the solidarity allowance or the advance pension. It is a lot more people, especially the OAU and farmers, of course, but also the OAU. Not for future dues. Push until August 20th, put until today, put until the date of deposit of the arrangement, so that no further problem arises. That's what we're asking. I think you should do it and give the opportunity to recalculate, as someday the Ministry announced, if that is lower, to ask for it. If it is not lower, that the debt remains as it is, but of course you can give them the opportunity to receive the pension on the basis of the paid debts, the paid insurance contributions, the debt being frozen, and when it is possible to adjust it, to also take this additional part of the pension. Three alternative proposals we've submitted to you. I would like to present this to you with the proposal for a law which is now in Parliament for processing. I will submit to the Minutes these two specific proposals for members of the former OAU and OGA, to see that there is a processed proposal, which we ask you to examine and adopt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Kegeroglu, these alternative proposals when you were in government, you could make them law and regulate what you're saying now. You didn't. On the contrary, what happened in the years of the PASOK-New Democracy rule was that the debtors reached 97%. Of the 30 billion to be owed to the FBI, 16 billion is from the EUPM. That's not old. They have been created in those years, during which you could legislate and make the arrangements you are now proposing. You didn't, of course. You caused a swelling and over-inflation of debtors. We took steps. Let me remind you, of course, that with a circular of 2001, the then government, these people for whom you are now showing your sympathy because they have to take more than that, they had nothing to take. The helpless people, with your own circular of government, were forbidden to take, and we now had to come and give this opportunity to these people for whom you speak with so much sympathy. Over the past 20 years, you haven't done anything, and we did it. That's what we did. So I will explain and give you a clue, because I came to answer once again: With Law No.4331/2015 debts increased from EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000 in order to be able to retire, only a thousand two hundred people have been retired. It took five months the law and only a thousand two hundred people took advantage of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u61	After you abolished him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u62	No, we didn't. This law lasted until the end of September 2015. Find your papers. It wasn't abolished. It had a certain duration and in this known period only a thousand two hundred people responded. I must tell you that there are a hundred and thirty thousand farmers who currently owe less than EUR 4,000. These thirty thousand farmers who have the right to retire can therefore enter this process of regulation. It is not a question of doing ten. Already a hundred thirty thousand can go in, and two hundred and eighty-five thousand are the OAU debtors who owe up to EUR 20,000 and can retire. In other words, we currently have that framework, which, in your opinion, is enough to meet the needs of the debts, namely 4,000 euros for farmers who are a hundred and thirty thousand people, and 20,000 euros for free professionals who are two hundred and eighty-five thousand people. What we are going to do - to be sure - on the other side of your proposal, is to care more for the debtors. Don't worry, we'll care more about the debtors and we'll take other measures. This is a proclaimed political aim for us and we are applying it, as is seen from everything we have done. Continuingly, every year, we take measures, make adjustments, make it easier for the debtors to respond, overcoming the huge problems of the crisis that occurred in previous years. However, I would remind you that it is very important - I was reminded now that I had gone to Thessaly tour - that the Greek Police, the DIA Group, during your own governance was with the mandate to arrest those free professionals who had to and had filled the police departments with prisoners of free professionals. The Group of the European People's Party took them and took them straight inside. It was full of sections with people who were arrested. That's how it was. We have abolished the criminal provisions. There is no criminal offence for freelance professionals, and we have put an end to a situation that was particularly painful. So don't tell us about sensitivity. All our actions prove that we have and are sensitive and understand the real problems that we need to solve and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. The fourth question under number 120/1-11-2018, the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki under the Ambassadors Agreement", will not be discussed. Also, the fifth under number 75/16-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of an inland ship”, will not be discussed. Finally, the sixth question under number 1/1-10-2018 of the National Association of Thessaloniki MPs - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a. Dissolve State Report, financial year 2016 and b. Dissolve State Balance Sheet, financial year 2016. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122 and 123(8) and Articles 107 and 97. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 26 November 2018 decided to hold the debate at a meeting and, if necessary, proceed to a second. We propose that the speeches should be recorded with a card and a five-minute speaking time, with a rotation of the speakers. Only the rapporteurs have the right to do so after the last speaker's speech has been completed. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u65	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Konstantinos Pavlides, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think that if we really want to do a dynamic monitoring and a dynamic evaluation of the 2016 balance sheet and not a museum breakthrough, we need to see it included in the overall framework of a political planning, which came after the second elections of September 2015. Following the vote on the third programme, there was a design and all the budgets followed this logic of adapting the new plan. What is this new political planning? Firstly, the implementation and commitment of the third programme. Therefore, the commitments of the programme and the Memorandum Responsibilities, the implementation of the budgetary objectives. At the same time, forecasts and forecasts from reality, that is, from the implementation of these budgets. What did the 2016, 2017 and 2018 budgets do? That's how we need to see them. They served the political planning that came from this compromise of the third programme and political approval by society in September 2015. What did they contain? Hard budgetary measures, difficult budgetary objectives, but at the same time a strong social policy, while allowing the budgetary margin, parallel policies, whether they concerned the social solidarity benefit or the dividends at the end of the year attributed to society, or the policies of enhanced support in the fields of health and education. At the same time, the creation of a financial area by creating reduced primary surplus targets. Let me remind you that the liabilities of primary surpluses before SYRIZA amounted to 16.2% of GDP, in 2015 at 3%, in 2016 at 4.5%, in 2017 at 4.5% and in 2018 at 4.2%. We have brought surplus obligations instead of 16.2% to 5.5% of GDP, a savings of 20 billion euros. From 29.2 billion surplus obligations to 9.3 billion. A free budget area of 20 billion was therefore created, which this four-year period has been channelled into the development and strengthening of social policy. At the same time, the average maturity of the loan contract from the seventeen years relating to the first Memorandum, mainly with loans from the IMF and the other institutions, has been doubled to thirty-two and half years. Interest rates from 4% fell to 1% and all of this gave a large budget space for another policy and at the same time gave a minimal debt relief close to 40 billion, according to specific studies. I think that this was the political result of both the 2015 negotiation and the referendum, for those who believe that the referendum did not play their part too. This adaptation to the new data, in terms of surpluses and other debt restructuring, was precisely the aim of the referendum and played an important role in this. However, you come and question the clear exit from the memorials in 2018 at the same time, highlighting the alleged exit of 2014 with three main parameters. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. I'll answer one by one. For the results of the 2016 budget three elements I want to mention. The government debt rate has risen by 3 billion in 2016 as a loan for the repayment of outstanding debts. In other words, for the first time, we did not need resources for either the budget or public consumption or for the repayment of interest. Secondly, the primary surplus, even in terms of ESA, of the European System of Accounts, was almost neutral. In other words, it was negative. The primary result of the general government for the first time was plus 3.7% of GDP, i.e. close to EUR 6.5 billion. And it was a sustainable primary surplus, not one off, not once, was not a one-year flare, but it was a stable return on the economy for the next three years and this year, together with 2018: 2016, 2017, 2018. Thirdly, for the first time the budgetary result of the general government was positive, 0.4% of GDP, which means that the economy and the country did not have to loan either for public expenditure or for interest repayment, that is, what helped in 2017 to exit the excessive deficit process. At the same time, I will give two or three figures. You don't call it a lot of success, when an economy starts with a gap in 2009 minus 20 billion, minus 8 in 2010, minus 12, minus 4, minus 5. Overall, in the five years 2009-2014, there was a gap in the economy of around 50 billion euros. In the evaluation piece you had an obligation of sixteen reviews this four years and only five evaluations were closed. At the same time, they closed without debt restructuring, with a perception that debt is viable both inside and outside the country, with unemployment at 27.3% in the first quarter of 2014, when after two years, in the first quarter of 2016, unemployment fell to 24.9% and with deposits - because you are talking about bleeding, about the part of banks' bleeding - when in 2010 the deposits were at EUR 209 billion and in 2014 at EUR 133 billion. I think that is not evidence which can be the product of a policy of exiting the memoranda. Also, at the cost of negotiating, which is your second major positive political field, I will make it quite clear to you - I have told you on several occasions - that 86 billion new debt, as you say, is EUR 54 billion refinancing of old debt, EUR 7 billion outstanding debt repayment, so we are converting a private debt into a public debt, so the budgetary footprint is zero. And at the same time, we had 35 billion that went to the banks' recapitalisation. The result of this is the fact that on 31-12-2014, the public debt was EUR 324 billion and at the end of 2015, after this course and adventure of the country in 2015, it was EUR 321 billion. So, nowhere can you support the logic of this great disaster that you invoke. As far as surpluses as a product of overtax are concerned, it obviously has an instrument and a tax mark, but at the same time it has been the result of a good course of the ECA and EEAA, which, from deficits, have now led to strong surpluses. Also, the non-measurable measures from undeclared incomes and other forms of economic action, which they yielded. Regarding your criticism of surpluses as a product of taxes, I will mention one element: taxation in 2009 was 20%, 2010 was 22%, 2011 was 24%, 2012 was 25%, 2013 was 26.7%, and 2014 was 26.3%. From 20% to 26%. If this is not a product of overtaxation, what is it? Finally, I would like to say clearly two things. I wanted to say a lot more, but time, in relation to him in the committees, is limited. I think that the measures - we will talk about this in the next few days in mid-December, in relation to the 2019 budget - are clear that it is the product of a specific political planning, which has, with budgetary consequence, yielded a specific political plan and which has gone down to society by keeping it alive. However, it is not an excuse, because there is a political conception of the government over the last three years, at the end of the year, that social dividends should be attributed and that of the economy, over-excession as an element of social efficiency, so in fact a social and economic redistribution of resources. Secondly, they are development measures with a social dimension and the reduction of contributions and the reduction of tax rates, the reinforcement of people's income, which is channelled exclusively to consumption, whether by increasing the minimum wage or by abolishing the subordinated and collective labour agreements. And I close, saying you can't talk about impulse. Only a joke is that it can be taken by passive and pro-election measures, when in March 2014, when the year started, because it was two months before the European elections, you remembered to give a dividend of EUR 450 million. In March, without seeing the results of the end of the year and what the economy is doing, in order to be able to offer it to society, three months after the beginning of the year, you give a 450m euro dividend and the obligation of the surplus that you had to have, i.e. the target of 1.5%, fell to 0.4%. You had a distance four times under your own target. If this is not an excuse and you are judging us that we are doing out-of-date and pre-election measures, which we deliver three consecutive years at the end of the year and not in a pre-election period, after seeing what the economy is performing, then you are, at least, unreliable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and three educational sessions from the 6th Acharon School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Fortsakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the statement on revenue and expenditure of the 2016 State budget and on the balance sheet of the same year. We are going to discuss what happened in 2016, the first full year of the implementation of the third financial adjustment programme signed by the government, a programme of unnecessarily costing the country, according to institutions' estimates, up to EUR 200 million. The fact that we have been having this debate almost two years later, I think we should be seriously concerned. Can the 2016 balance sheet and statement be ratified marginally within the time-limit provided for in Rule 122 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but how effective should we ask ourselves and how much within the spirit of Parliament's Rules of Procedure be such a far-reaching parliamentary control? Ladies and gentlemen, after the disastrous first half of 2015, the country entered a state of paralytic stagnation. In 2016 it closed with a recession of 0.2% rather than a recovery of the economy, as the Prime Minister was saying. According to international economic reports, Greece was the only negative development surprise in the world that year. Critical to this recession was the consumption expenditure, which decreased in 2016 by 0.3% compared to 2015. And how can consumer spending not be reduced when the citizens have come to an economic dead end? I would remind you that before SYRIZA - ANEL came to power in 2014, the country was in a revival orbit. In that year, GDP increased by 0.7%. This was interrupted by the elections and the disastrous first half of 2015, which plunged the country for two years in the recession and led to extermination measures. The tax raid, combined with the internal posture of payments, caused in 2016 an unnecessarily overcrowded surplus. The citizens were no longer able to respond to the increasing taxes imposed by the government, faithful to its unhappy budgetary policy. SYRIZA - ANEL imposed new or additional taxes, such as an increase in VAT, income tax for legal persons, HISPI, income tax for farmers, cigarette taxes, taxes on coffee, taxes on petrol, taxes on heating oil and the list has no end. We had a total of twenty-nine new taxes. The Government has taken additional financial measures, showing great social analgesia, measures such as cuts in pensions and supplementary pensions, cuts in social allowances, cuts in social security benefits, reduction in one-off benefits, reduction in the CRP and reduction in the heating allowance. Although the government's effort was, in the statement by the Minister of Finance - I read it literally - 'to combine financial responsibility with social justice and the redistribution of burdens', that is not, unfortunately. Revenue, private debt has increased. While at the end of 2015 it was around 6 billion euros, in 2016 it increased by 11 billion euros, about, above 50% of GDP. The result was the launching of seizures and forced recovery measures, as well as the drying of the market. On the expenditure side, the internal attitude of payments has continued. The government’s dues were literally launched. They increased by 46% compared to December 2014. I would remind you that the previous government had received its obligations at EUR 9.6 billion in 2012 and reduced them in two years spectacularly and reached EUR 3.8 billion. Unfortunately, however, since then, the situation, with the government's responsibility since 2015, has changed. This SYRIZA - ANEL tactic continues to this day. Although more than 7 billion was disbursed by the loan agreement for their repayment, the debt remains extremely high and unjustifiedly high. Let us now come to the Public Investment Programme. The Public Investment Programme in 2016 was undersuccessful. There has been a delay in the target of around EUR 500 million. In fact, in 2016, the public investment programme costs were shaped at the lowest level since 2012. This government option - because it is a government option - let us not hide - is, unfortunately, continuing to this day. From the beginning of 2016, public investment expenditure has been less than EUR 2.6 billion compared to the target. They are, in other words, at the lowest point in the last decade. The internal lending, by launching the repurchase agreements, through the wipe of the general government's cash reserves has escalated. In trying to build a safety pillow, the government resorted to excessive and relatively expensive internal lending. As a result, the reposes are currently over EUR 21 billion, from EUR 8.5 billion at the end of 2014. And this, while the government could well claim and use the untapped funds from the loan contract for this purpose, of EUR 24 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget has, as it is clear, been extremely problematic, economically ineffective, socially unfair. The competitiveness of the Greek economy deteriorated, with the available income of the citizens considerably shrinked. Our economy continues today to be in a stall. The total amount of overdue public debt has now exceeded EUR 103 billion. Over four million three thousand of our fellow citizens owe tax. Observations and auctions, day after day, multiply. Altogether, over the last four years, there have been four million eight hundred thousand seizures, over a million thousand citizens. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has since the first moment given its mark, tax raid, austerity measures, anti-development policy and continues to deprive significant liquidity from the market. According to the provisional figures for the implementation of the State Budget of the Ministry of Finance for the period January-October 2018, public investment expenditure, tax reimbursements to private individuals, as well as primary costs are significantly less. Public debt is now more than EUR 3 billion. The government's budgetary policy is disastrous for the country. The next New Democracy government, from day one, will implement a realistic and coherent economic policy plan with a view to strengthening liquidity in the real economy and achieving high and sustainable growth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u69	So do we. The rapporteur for the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsoukos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras yesterday from this moment yesterday the Step told us to judge him for the last hundred days. In other words, Mr Tsipras wants us to have a selective memory, to forget about the thousands of four hundred days that he governs and to deal with only his last hundred days. Watch out now. What we are talking about today, the 2016 balance sheet is the result of 100 plus 100 days, that is, of the first two days of governance of Mr. Tsipras. Talking about the 2019 budget, which accumulates all these measures of the period of the governance of SYRIZA and ANELs that lead cumulatively to the overcrowds of 57 billion and to the criticism, with documentary evidence, over-taxation of citizens and the exhaustion of their burden-sharing capacity, the honourable Minister of Finance Mr. Juliarakis attempted yesterday to make a little historical retrogression. He argued that in 2015 the government had to make tough decisions, not to lead to Grexit. And, as he said, hard budgetary decisions mean taxes and cuts. We are very pleased, Minister! When did you discover that? You discovered it in 2015 after the "Varoufakiada" which, under the responsibility of Mr. Tsipras who appointed him Minister, led Greece to the edge of the cliff. Then you found out! Until then you were still in clouds and delusionals. And when Greece, with the first PASOK governments, did make tough decisions, not to drive to Grexit, you were all on the tiles - to be precise, in Syntagma Square. Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Varoufakis was with other graphics. Look at the photos of that time. You, thank God, are not one of them, Minister. And I've recognized it to you and I've recognized too many others. So did you have to make tough decisions, as you said - yes, it is true - and these tough decisions, where were incorporated? They were integrated into the 2016 budget, whose balance sheet we are discussing now. It incorporated measures of the third Memorandum worth 7.2 billion. It was 4.2 billion in revenue and 3 billion in expenditure. And these led to the increase of tax burdens from 35.7% of GDP that was in 2014 to 38.8% in 2016 - and I am speaking on the basis of AMECO's figures - and to the overturning of the relationship between indirect to direct taxation from 1.15% in 2014 to 1.18% in 2016. And because taxes work cumulatively, because the increased VAT is here, in 2018 this relationship reached 1.45 and 2019, if it brings us the information that Mr. Juliarakis asked for, we estimate it will go to 1.5. Of course, these difficult decisions, which Mr Juliarakis said yesterday, have become necessary as, as reflected in the evolution of GDP indicators, due to this first dramatic half-year of 2015, all the forecasts of international organisations have been overturned. In other words, the international organisations predicted that in 2015 we would have a growth of 2.9% of GDP and closed with a recession of 0.4%. They predicted that in 2016 we will have a growth of 3.7% and closed with a recession of 0.2%. These are the results of your policy. Thus, instead of a surplus, 2015 ended with a small deficit. And 2016, due to overtaxation, instead of the budget forecast for a surplus of 900 million and something, closed with overcrowding, despite the fact that in 2016 the growth rates were below zero. How is it justified by the growth underneath zero to have over-performance of revenues? Just because of the overtaxation. So, Minister, don't make it like the patronage kid who asks the court to pity it because he's an orphan. It was your decisions and for them you must apologise to the Greek people for more than a thousand four hundred days, which you are ruling and not for the hundreds, said by Mr Tsipras. Allow me, in the short time available, to make a reference to the Court's observations on the deflection of the delays, the loss of the ANFAs, the destruction of the reserve - Mr Spirtzis made free manoeuvre, with free transport during the referendum - 30 million in the U.S., 6.5 million in TRAINOSE and 14 million in the Concert Hall. The left ones you and the Lambrakis Agency messed with! Twenty years, I remind you, it was your ideological front. However, I come to the most serious, in my view, of the Court of Auditors, which has to do with the valuation of public property. Because, although the Court of Auditors considers that this is an essential omission, which does not allow us to have an evaluation of the citizens' net position, I would like to link it, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that this property, for which the Court of Auditors says we need to assess it, has now reached the supreme level. Seventy thousand ETA's properties have gone to the superstition. With Mr. Tsakalotou's last decision, tens of thousands of nineteen went, including archaeological sites, museums and non-negotiable properties. The Ministry of Culture said he wrote a list and sent it to you to get it out. And I, that is, the Democratic Alliance, the Change Movement, with our repeated questions, ask you to tell us what this list is. Why are you keeping them secret, anyway? Is it very important, then, that now that this fortune has passed in the control of Mr Le Papp, that is, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the Supreme Court, to make an assessment, to see the 25 billion pledged to the lenders, to fulfil our commitment to the loans that we have received, is that enough? Is it enough to make use of public property, as we say, in the interests of development, the insurance funds and so on? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Well, we'll wait for an answer on this. If you're not ready today, when Mr. Tsipras makes his next election time here, don't forget to tell us. Because he should bear in mind that we are going to insist on this. Therefore, and to close - because the President, as he must have said, hit the bell - should go and not go back, as I said to the committee, the budget and balance sheet of 2016, which accumulated all the burdens that we pay to the media. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u71	Be well. Mr. Kutsuko, the bell is ringing on its own.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u72	I'll tell you later when he's ringing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u73	Always. It's automatic. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u74	The ratification of the 2016 accounts and balance sheet enables us, not to predict or appreciate what will come, but to consider our stance at that time and, furthermore, to criticise the government policies that have been decided and implemented. From this point of view, I must point out the fact that the strong criticism of the Golden Dawn of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government on economic policy, which it has exercised during the period of taking power up until now, has, of course, been a period that, of course, includes, and in 2016, it has unfortunately been fully confirmed for our people. With regard to the 2016 report, the Court of Auditors has come forward with important findings which reveal the size of the tax raid reserved by the Tsipras - Kammenos coupled with Greek households. The Court of Auditors therefore admits a divergence from the initial assessments, both due to the reduced tax capacity of the Greeks due to overtaxation, and from the master craftsmanship of the latest economies of the households and businesses from the Left and Kammenos through the socially unfair indirect taxation which reached 1.27% of the direct tax. It is true - it is true - that the culture of illusion in public opinion that the sacrifices of that time would be the last, stressing that these sacrifices will not be lost, but are the main condition of exit from the economic crisis. An evil coincidence of what the previous government, that of the Samaras - Venizelos, said in 2014. The conscious lies of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government and the consequences of the severe Memorandumic Policy experienced the entire Greek people who do not forget what it means to burn and left. According to the updated data published by ELSTAT, we had a officially remission in Greece in 2016. The Gross Domestic Product for 2016 compared to 2015 showed a decrease of 0.2%. The final consumption expenditure of the same year in volume terms showed a decrease of 0.3% compared to 2015. Imports of goods and services in volume terms, an increase of 0.3% compared to 2015. Exports of goods and services 2016 in volume terms decreased by 1.8% compared to 2015. On the basis of the revised data, the 2016 Gross Domestic Product at current prices showed a decrease of 1.2% compared to 2015. The 2016 final consumption expenditure at current prices decreased 1.2% compared to 2015. Imports of goods and services decreased by 2.7% compared to 2015. Exports of goods and services 2016 at current prices decreased by 5.1% compared to 2015. A number of elements which have been finalised towards the worst have led to this review by landing the Greek economy, but not the Government of the Moroccan politicians of Merkel and the European Union, which leads our country and people to the destruction. In fact, Merkel's arrogant people have the improper courage to oppose the creation of the surplus that has been achieved for that year as a crown of economic policy. Tsipras, Kammenos and their companions are proud of the huge primary surplus of 2016. The target was 0.5% of GDP, and they accumulated multiples. But primary surplus means that in 2016 more than EUR 6.5 billion of the target was removed from the real economy. What was returned by the infamous social dividend was part of that amount. The removal was made possible by overtaxing households and businesses, which, however, in turn, exacerbates the lack of liquidity. What, however, was the result of this clearly anti-popular and anti-developmental practice? In 2016, the surplus further dehydrated the real economy and finally the government was ordered by its bosses abroad and accepted additional measures. The lenders welcomed the adoption of the new Memorandum of Understanding, the proportion of the Greeks, which is on the poverty line, was growing and the Tsipras - Kammenos government triumphantly triumphantly triumphantly, leaving aside the dramatic social consequences of bleeding and giant primary surpluses and staying at the narrow economic level. We must make a statement, which is undeniably perceived by every productive sector in the Greek economy. At a time when the economy has kneeled, due to the lack of liquidity, additional bleeding through overtaxation is the safest way to undermine growth. The extremely negative impact on the survival of small businesses and professionals, as well as on the ability to produce a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP by 2022, as the government has already committed itself to lenders, is therefore inevitable. If it is finally possible to produce such a primary surplus, the impact on the real economy and thus on society will be severe. On unprecedented levels, of course, poverty has reached Greece, as they have been poored over one out of three inhabitants in Greece, at the same time as the European Union's average is one out of four, according to EUROSTAT figures published for the year 2016. In Greece, then, that year was at the limit of poverty and social exclusion, 35.6% of the population, that is about 3.8 million of our compatriots. In the European Union, the corresponding figure in 2016 fell to 23.4%, i.e. below 2008 levels. In other words, the European Union has gone through the crisis unscathed, with the backs of Greece, and that is no longer only the Golden Dawn, but it is admitted by the leaders of the European Union, who are applauded, because the Greeks have been sacrificed to save the European Union and the euro. Unlike poverty benefits, which were given to some Greeks that year, for those selected in SYRIZA - ANEL illegal immigrants "moneys exist", as they enjoy a multitude of privileges, through dividends, allowances, coups, free apartments with all costs paid. And all of this in a country whose people have suffered all over the past decade and whose suffering will not end, contrary to what the managers of their impoverishment are rightly claiming. In conclusion, SYRIZA and ANEL and New Democracy and PASOK, on the other hand, engage in a ruthless and uninterrupted competition for who best serves foreigners. The most pressing side wins the credit of the orders and all this on the back of the Greek people, who is the great victim of the humiliating promises of a handful of political leaders who lead Greece to destruction. For this very reason, the Golden Dawn, having been fully confirmed in everything since 2015, predicted that it would happen, is voting against both the balance sheet and the balance sheet of 2016. I close my position with a warm national and racing greeting on the part of the Golden Dawn, to the fight for the national ideals of Greek youths. And a point to the politicians, both on the left and on the dead. Until yesterday you were saying hello that we on Golden Dawn are the last to go. Now it is seen with horror, as it seems, we were not the last to leave, but the first to come. The age of ethnic negligence is set and that of national patriotism is rising again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I want to make a correction for the Minutes because I have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u77	I was referring to the thousands of four hundred days of Mr Tsipras, not four and a half thousand, because four and a half thousand is a decade. I imagine you don't think you'll be running for a decade either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u78	Unless you're prophetic. The rapporteur for the Union of Centres, Mr Cavalellas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank those colleagues who gave me their turn, because I have to be on the channel of the House in a little while. We are therefore called upon to carry out two sanctions. The first penalty concerns the State’s balance sheet for the financial year 2016 and the second penalty the State’s balance sheet for the same year. 2016 is the first year in which the third financial adjustment programme was fully implemented and is the financial year, which comes from the devastating 2015 of the proud negotiation, the creative ambiguity of Mr Varoufakis, who completely destroyed the Greek economy, bringing the capital control. There has been damage, against some experts, to 200 billion and to the most friendly of you, 100 billion euros. Suddenly, after the throat, you discovered that you had some delusional things that you told us were narratives. You admit you were inexperienced. For me, it is impossible to accept all this as an excuse. If you are deceiving, you must resign, you are not entitled to rule, because you do not have the right to destroy our society and our economy. It is certain that you have taken a country on the edge of the cliff by the former governors, PASOK and New Democracy, who have implemented a electoral system, a customer perception, managed public money through Tsukata. Many millions of dollars were borrowed from a damaged and bankrupt country to build the party armies to make posters and put them in trash cans and walls. These are from the previous ones. You say you've been inexperienced. The people say you're not capable. The people know you'll do anything right now to save chairs. The people have seen worse days in your administration than the previous, of course, bad days we have lived. This, of course, does not give the right to the New Democracy and PASOK to act as guardians, because, as I said before, they have brought the country in a desperate state and then you have come to us to completely exterminate us. So 2016 is the year of the abnormal landing of SYRIZA in reality. And thankfully, why would we become Cuba or at best Venezuela, whose admiration you admired the leaders, where the wages in Venezuela are now $12 a month. You admired other, more stringent communists, such as the great leader Kim Young Eun, who has infinite freedoms there, kills one behind the other, others disappears them. So you wanted to make it Korean, Kim Young Eun, control it. It didn't pass you, thank God. Not that private television is at its best, but in any case, when we have a sick person, we let him be well, we are not preparing him for the grave. You are now inclined to alleviate, reduce, reduce. At best, the ENVY will be reduced by 100 euros. You are feeding a number of things up to a reduction in taxes, but you are not entitled to these, because they will be called upon to apply a next government. So feeding and giving benefits makes no sense. It will probably be called upon by the Mitsotakis - genome government, if there is the financial margin. We don't care what you do when you're not government. What we are interested in is now that you are ruling to see alleviations, to give solutions to the problems of the people. You are falsely claiming that now that we are supposed to come out of the memoranda, you are now going to implement your philosophical policy. The truth is, we didn't come out of the memoranda because the Memorandumary Obligations remain. It is simply the end of the Europeans' obligation to cover us with cheap loans, with a 1% interest rate that has been good enough for us and they have now shut us down. In practical terms the Europeans have said to us: 'The period of support is finally coming to an end. What we did, we did. You will go on your own now to find the way, to solve your finances." So go out, gentlemen, and borrow yourself on the markets. And when we go to the markets to ask for a loan, money, or we will be completely denied, or we will be asked for guarantees that we do not have because we have it all on the supermarket, or they will ask us for great interest. And of course, as I said before, we have not come out of our Memorandum obligations with the known commitments for surpluses for sixty years. And you, on your part, are zealously extortioners - lenders. And put a hat on the surpluses. You have done those surpluses, which, of course, are not the result of an increase in the economy, but of overtaxation, of the non-payment by the State of liabilities to private individuals, whether they are ordinary citizens or businesses. So you leave a suspicion, say to us that investors will come, etc. Recently, however, a large company, a cement industry with more than a hundred years of existence, has gone, closed, down rolls. And how will investors come with 24% VAT, which, of course, you promise, tax 100% for next year and a maximum profit tax, which you say will be reduced, but this reduction that you are claiming belongs to the next government? So it makes no sense to promise. To avoid taking advantage of your time and your kindness, I would like to say that we are looking forward to another mix of economic policy. We've heard a lot of things. We have heard about parallel programmes, countermeasures, various things. We have voted against all of this and voted against it. Thank you very much for giving me their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. Mr Katsikis, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget was admittedly the first necessary step - I am talking about 2016 - in which, given the existing circumstances, the government must go ahead in order to carry out its primary mission and its initial commitment to the Greek people, who gave two parallels - let us not forget that - confidence orders and anoint this, the current government structure, as responsible for bringing the country out of monuments. And that's exactly what happened. The government has just condemned the popular vote of confidence and has managed to put a definitive end to the long-term period of hard economic comitology, a period of harsh economic crisis, which unfortunately for the previous governments has highlighted their administrative inadequacy. It is good, then, that all those who today account for the government for the 2016 budget do not forget their responsibilities in the years ahead. However, if you forget or overlook it for reasons of political purposes, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you cannot renounce your responsibilities, as it comes to you itself and exposes you and even irreparable. The reality exposes you because the government's target since 2016 to combine financial responsibility with social justice and the redistribution of burdens has been successful. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] On the basis of this precisely the central government target, in 2016 an additional EUR 630 million was paid for a grant to EKKA for the provision of one-off financial support to low pensioners, EUR 143 million for emergency financial assistance to deal with the humanitarian crisis and EUR 39 million for multi-Ten allowances. The amount we shared from the overpayment of social dividend revenues in 2016 gave breath to a million six hundred thousand low pensioners. At the end of 2016 with this extraordinary one-off payment, we gave the first examples of writing a social fair policy. We gave hope that something finally starts to change and we have supported the Greek citizens who have suffered so badly in the past few years. And just at that time, the Qualified Opposition despite the internal objections of many of its members and MPs to vote 'yes' in the matter of distributing social dividends to the low pensioners, has unfortunately chosen the disappointing 'partners'. This is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen, and you have documented this political decision with a statement of absolute negligence towards the external cheques, which you once again have shown that you are afraid and are blindly implementing, even if this is to the detriment of the legitimate and legitimate interests of the Greek people. I would remind you of what you referred to, in order to disagree with the exceptional allocation of the social dividend in 2016: "The creditors were not in agreement." That was your answer. This was your national contribution and once again you disappointed Greek citizens. That's what you did, I'm sorry to say. On the other hand, we consistently went ahead, believing in the policy that we are implementing and in the next year, in 2017, the social dividend more than doubled, reaching EUR 1,400,000,000 with the benefit of almost four million of our fellow citizens. For 2018, finally, as announced only yesterday by the Minister of Finance, the social dividend to be distributed amounts to EUR 710,000,000 in order to support economically weak persons and vulnerable households. I'm closing this parentheses. The data issued by the Greek Financial Council for 2016 showed that, despite the exceptional circumstances and circumstances prevailing in the economy in 2015, the general government budget implementation in 2016 was carried out under much more smooth conditions, as the budgetary measures and interventions taken contributed to the improvement of the financial performance and the achievement of the annual budget targets. In any case, the fiscal policy implemented remained firmly committed to correcting the structural fiscal imbalances of the Greek economy by completing the fiscal adjustment plan and consolidating the credibility of economic policy. That is why Greece managed to leave the excessive deficit procedure in September 2017 after eight years. And all this, while in the years 2016-2017, the country first recorded in modern Greek economic history a general government surplus of budgets. The success of budgetary policy over the past three years has been the result of a mix of expenditure reductions, revenue-support measures and structural reforms. These budgetary performances have made a decisive contribution to the restoration of international credibility to the management of the country's public finances, the removal of economic uncertainty and the consolidation of a climate of confidence in the economy, the upgrading of creditworthiness and the significant declining of the borrowing costs of the Greek State and ultimately the successful completion and exit of the European Stability Mechanism's economic adjustment programme in August 2018. The current economic reality is, therefore, inextricably linked to the design that preceded it and to the steps taken by the country in both 2016 and the last two years. We have now reached a time when the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy are improving and allowing the households' available income to be strengthened, the reduction of tax burdens and social security contributions, as well as the strengthening of social protection measures and the stimulation of the employment of young people. For all these reasons, therefore, the Independent Greeks are in favour of voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance for the ratification of the 2016 State Account and the ratification of the balance sheet of the State of the same financial year, as we consider that everything that happened was necessary and capable for the country to come back to light again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. We have the last special speaker, Mr. Spyridon Dannellis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to ratify the State's accounts and balance sheet for the financial year 2016. A procedure that is clearly formal and repeated every year, which is rather very small, since it unfortunately does not serve to draw up the budget for next year. I am going straight to a number of remarks concerning the financial information we now have at our disposal. Net revenue received from the budget, regular and public investment, after the reduction of refunds and excluding credits, amounted to approximately 54.7 billion euros in 2016, remaining with a target of EUR 256,2 million or 0,47%, i.e. a minimal deviation from the target. They represent 31.1% of GDP compared to 27.7%, but obviously because GDP did not have the predictable increase. This is because in 2016, despite the anticipated, GDP only increased by 0.1%. But what happened that year with the revenue? Excesses in revenue were observed in the following taxes: VAT, past year's taxes after regulation, income tax for legal persons, public holding in profits for companies and organizations, receipts from Community funds and agencies, receipts from a trade fee and sales revenue from shares in listed and unlisted companies on the Athens Stock Exchange. At the same time, we had a lack of revenue from privatizations, reimbursements from central banks in the euro area, income tax on natural persons, HICPs, extraordinary contributions and a contribution of solidarity, a cohesion fund and a European social fund. There is obviously no need for a degree in economics to understand that the lack of income tax, VAT, HISA and the exceptional contribution is probably due to the high tax on Greek households combined with a progressively reduced tax capacity of these. But Vaterlo was, of course, the revenue from privatizations, which amounted to only 5% of the provision in question. The deviation, which can only be called, rather than total failure, is attributed to optimistic estimates of the purchase of real estate, the lack of demand at that time, to bureaucratic sales processes. I do not know whether it is advancing at this stage to remind the House of the constant ambiguities, the regressions and the ideas on which we have repeatedly drawn attention to the issue of deprivation. A huge discrepancy, less than 80% of the budgeted, has also shown the revenue from repayments from central banks and the European Central Bank, and it should be noted that for a third year the revenue from this source is overestimated. Now let's go back to the returns, the deletions and the due date. Tax refunds have exceeded the annual target and relate mainly to VAT income tax and direct taxes in the past few years. That's good. During the same period revenue write-offs amounted to 1,8 billion euros, of which 937 million concerned tax write-offs, mainly violations of the Code of Books and Elements of previous years. Here we must stress that it is important to streamline what the state expects to collect, so that false expectations are not created, but also impressions among the citizens who of course have nothing to do with reality. For example, it is surprising that 13.03% or 3.97 billion people have been fined by the Code of Books and Elements of the period - look out! -1976-2005, which, of course, have no chance of collection, but continue to be carried from year to year, while 14.68% is mentioned in 2006-2009, with great precariousness of course. In fact, it is proposed by the Court of Auditors that the central administration should reassess the collection of the revenue that has been established over the decade and the inconsistent deletion of unacceptable collections so that the budget can show a real picture of the balance received. Similar issues, Mr Minister, exist permanently, over time and every year in the preparation of the budgets of the Local Government agencies. Here's a big problem. Of course, no one takes the responsibility of doing the necessary streamlining, so that we have constantly drafting false budgets on the substance, with all the problems that this creates. I think we must boldly deal with this situation which has nothing to do with economic reality. In addition, in 2016 the due date, referred to as the receivable balance, amounted to 92,24 billion or 53,58 % of GDP, increased compared to 2015. It is of course reasonable, since the low rates of tax collection in the past financial years demonstrate the ineffectiveness of old debt arrangements in conjunction with the consolidation of new categories of taxes. Credit income increases in relation to budgets of 14.3 billion, i.e. 2.7%. It is noted that most of these come from credit revenues from loans and securities of the Greek State, while revenues from the conclusion of loans for a support mechanism are shown reduced in relation to the provision of EUR 4.7 billion. Finally, with regard to the public investment credits, there is a delay of around EUR 2 billion. It is also noted that entities of the general government and of the first and second grades have not complied with the 2015 Act of Legislative Content of the Government, which obliges them to deposit cash in cash management accounts with the Bank of Greece. In relation to expenditure, expenditure in 2016 stood at EUR 602,2 billion, exceeding EUR 2.1% predictions or EUR 12,2 billion. Although the figure seems great, in the 2014 and 2015 financial years, we recall that overcoming the budget statement was 75.16% and 441% respectively, mainly due to the incorrect printing of short-term borrowing during the preparation of the budget. The Court of Auditors denounces that it is not determined at the level of the precarious requirements of the central administration by violating the principles of complete notification and conservativeity. The repayments of 2016 which expired until 31/12-2015 amount to only EUR 2,67 million. This demonstrates the impossibility of the collecting mechanisms to collect taxes within the financial year of creating these requirements primarily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. It also shows that the failure to achieve the objective of the tax arrangements and the inefficiency of the tax system is largely due to the fact that the actual fiscal capacity of the citizens, which are ultimately borne by the tax payment, is not taken into account. In addition, in 2016 the most unfair taxes, the indirect taxes, increased by 5%, from EUR 25 billion to EUR 26,2 billion. The total tax revenues have, of course, increased since 2015 by 2,2 %. 2016 indirect taxes have the highest percentage, 14.9% of GDP, for the period 2011 to 2016, and the same is true of tax revenues, which is 25.9% of GDP for the same period. In particular, value added tax increased by 8.3%, due to the reform of the VAT Code, from EUR 13.6 billion to EUR 14.8 billion. It is a change of EUR 1.1 billion, which is the highest price since 2011. In conclusion, we should point out that the public debt was shaped in 2016 at 185,5% of GDP compared to 182,9% of 2015, which, unfortunately, will continue to tempt us in the future as it is constantly growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u84	The circle of rapporteurs and speakers has been completed. I shall now give the floor to both colleagues, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Cassidyr. Then, Minister, you will take the floor and we will close with the parliamentary representatives. You have already asked me for two reasons. Before giving the floor to Mr Kegeroglou, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, forty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the Kalamos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that voting against the 2016 balance sheet is also about the budget itself that led to specific economic choices and, of course, to the management that was carried out by the government at the relevant time. It has been adequately analysed by our rapporteur, and I think that the government itself, if it could do so, would vote against him. But yesterday the day came for both the Prime Minister and Mr Juliarakis to have confessions. The Prime Minister in this Chamber admitted that the very high taxation that has been imposed since 2015 has led to de-escalation and tabled its own proposals. Of course, reductions in relation to increases are subtle. We have called him 'Master ten to one'. Mr. Tsipras with his policy continues to take ten out of the taxpayers' pocket and returns one. Ten takes them without shame, without here, with full analgesia even from the weak and returns a celebration. At the same time yesterday in another room Mr. Juliarakis told us that in the summer of 2015 the government could not do any different. In order to make budgetary adjustment it had to impose additional taxes, impose this overtaxation and increased insurance contributions, new excise duties, increase in VAT and everything that has been done. At the same time it had to cut social costs because it was not done differently, he says, two are the options and there was no choice. Only he did not tell us that the need for these measures was brought about by the policy of the first six months of the government itself, the election syriza or, if you like, by the SYRIZA of popular unity. Say it as you wish, but he had the same Prime Minister. He certainly had a different Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, and the policy he expressed with the approval of Mr Tsipras and then he had you and Mr Tsakalotos. But again, Mr. Tsipras was in charge. These are two completely different policies which have also led to the edge of the cliff, but at the same time also to an agreement that has chained the country, not until 20 August, but for many years, not only with the high surpluses of 3.5%, which you committed up to 2022, but also with the 2.2% for which you are committed by 2060. Of course, this was done with a superstition which does not have purely Greek administration, it is not under Greek domination. The Hellenic Republic has not control over the U.S. for nine nine years. It's been a year or two already. So you did not tell us why you caused this because you in your view caused the need for new unfavourable measures for the citizens. You did not tell us why you did not use the effort that had been made by 2014, to press on it, to put your own red lines and to use for the best what had been agreed. You didn't explain that to us. You should at some point not personally, who have confessed to it at small meetings, but Mr. Tsipras should go out and make his self-criticism. It's not the issue of delusion. Fraud is an emergency excuse and is the least bad for the government. It was before the elections planned this whole thing. There you are, and that seems to be the case today. You're the government that promised to abolish HISBIA. You are the government that you called the 1.6 billion of the EMCDDA, and you adopted 3 billion for HICP, almost twice as much. And as if nothing had happened, you are now coming with a 150-180 million cut, if I remember well, to talk to us about relief. Okay, every relief is good. However, in order to be able to have a course of dynamic economic development and at the same time social development, we must use all the work that has been done so far, so as not to make the mistake of 2015, not to do so ourselves. We must make use of these possibilities and move forward with a policy change. Not only does this place need a change of Prime Minister and Ministers. It also needs a change of policy. And the policy change says that we need to make use of the financial possibilities, with a view to the 3-3.5 billion - how much is the budgetary margin for the coming years on the basis of the medium-term? - to produce new wealth, to reproduce this wealth and, at the same time, to strengthen the sustainable social state. This is a policy, another way. After the fiasco of the so-called holistic program you allegedly presented in the summer, a sketchy work, a "yestragram", the need for an integrated package of economic development and social justice measures is evident. We tabled the proposal for a law. We have specific proposals through it and we invite you to bring it to a debate in the House, so that we do not come back in years to discuss a lost budget, a lost opportunity and an account which will vote against a large portion of the Greek people and not the House now. We therefore call on you to bring forward our proposals for discussion. I think that every day that passes, that remains the economy plummeted and the underhand of your commitments, is damage to the Greek people and the next generations. You must also admit that the commitments you have made over the next few decades must be overturned as soon as possible, which can only be done if there is national consultation and a large majority of the House that supports such a choice towards lenders. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u86	We continue with the second and final speaker, Mr Ilias Kasidiar. Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u87	The 2016 Balance sheet comes immediately after the destructive 2015, so the House, with the exception of the Golden Dawn, from SYRIZA and ANEL to PASOK and New Democracy, voted for the left, the most disastrous memorandum, which was much worse than the Yunker package, which was much worse than the referendum dilemma, where the 'no' of the people turned into a night into 'yes'. You are talking in the balance sheet about an increase in revenue and you fail to say how this increase has occurred. It has emerged only through the bloody taxation, the catastrophic taxation, whereby the free traders are forced to pay, to pay more than the turnover their businesses make. And so, in order to advertise the income increase, thousands of houses were closed down, thousands of businesses, thousands of Greeks were exiled, became immigrants in Europe. And all this so that Tsipras can advertise the social dividend, which they will receive, will take foreigners, Albanians, Pakistani. To advertise this inexpensive provision, therefore, thousands of Greek citizens have been closed down, the Greek economy has literally been destroyed. Equally deceitful, just as much fraud is the primary surplus account, where in essence, speaking about 2016, you removed EUR 6.5 billion from the real economy. With regard to the so-called primary surplus, which is also a disaster for the real economy, a disaster for the productive forces of this country, you omit beyond others to add in this history the interest on the debt for 2016, whose balance sheet we are debating today. We paid interest rates of 5,850 billion. In other words, we have an increase over the previous year of 744 million. The interest rate-savings are the culmination, it is the destruction of the Greek economy. The only solution, however, for the Greek economy to stand on its feet is the plan "Autarkia", the plan of the Golden Dawn to be self-sufficient in the basic kinds of living of the Greek people, i.e. food, medicines, fuel and weapons. If we are self-sufficient, if the plan "Attarkhaia" is implemented, then we will have the possibility as an economy even to reject the payment of illegal debt, without the risk of Greece being destroyed, without jeopardizing all that you use as a risk to terrorize the Greek people. Of course, if there is to be self-sufficiency, there must be the proclamation of the EEZ, the exploitation of the country's mineral wealth, we must have profits from gas and oil, which you have deported, you have delivered. And instead, in 2016 you chose to establish the most famous superstition, which is the destruction of Greece, is the assignment of Greece's national property for a century. The national resistance of the Greeks against the sale of the country is expressed today in the most resounding way by Greek students, from the Greek youth, by children with the Greek flags that have been spilled on the streets of all Greece and singing the piracy: "Macedonia xouristis", which you tried to ban with the uncovered Embassy Agreement. We had gone to the Parade in Thessaloniki, where there, as usual, the School of Hope sings "Macedonia unheard". This year was not heard from the campus from the military departments. But it sounds louder today than fighting Greek youths. And you, the hybrids, the government of the ethnicists, say that the events of the Greek students are motivated by the Golden Dawn. So to put things in place, their Greek students are motivated solely by Greek souls, Greek history, the secret voice of Greek blood, which from the depths of historical time until today cries that Macedonia is Greek from the years that Macedonian phalanges until even the cavalry of the partners of Alexander the Great made the star of Hellenism shine to the depths of Asia. Until today, it is the Greek soul that stimulates the dynamic national resistance of Greek students against the nationalists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You attacked young people with hatred, because youth didn't come and behave by long-term teachers of the extreme left. You threatened the Greek youth with your paraphysics, but you did absolutely nothing, because the Red Resistant Terrorism does not go to the Greek schools. So the Greek flags throughout Greece with dynamic patriotic slogans, with slogans of special powers, which are a very pleasant picture, Greek youths shouting at the squares and streets slogans of special forces. Greek flags with courage and unselfishness to hear the Greek emblems again, to hear the "Macedonia unheard" from the voices of thousands of Greek students to the heavens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor. I'll give you ten minutes. If they don't, you'll have a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I might need a little less time. I would like to begin with two remarks on the position of Officerial Opposition, but also the Democratic Partnership. The first comment concerns the position of both the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance that 2016 was a year of overtaxation. We were told both by the representative of the Officerial Representation and by Mr Koutsoukos that this overtaxation was unnecessary and that it would not have been necessary if the government were one of the two parties or if we had a continuation of the governments 2012-2014, New Democracy - PASOK. I would like to focus on this point, because it is of particular interest and I would like to mention a few economic figures. The financial year 2014 was closed with a marginal primary surplus of 0.3% of GDP or 555 million euros. I would remind you that the government forecast in 2014 in the mid-term programme for 2013-2017 provided a primary budgetary result of 2.5%. I mean, he fell out in his prediction of 2.3%. It predicted a primary surplus of 4.5 billion and closed with a surplus of 0.5 billion and a target for 2014. This means -1.5%, a target of 2.7 billion. In simple terms, in 2014 the government fell significantly below its forecast and below the target of approximately 0,2 % of GDP. I will now make the assumption that no elections were held in 2015 and the New Democracy Government - PASOK continued to manage public finances. In 2016, the primary surplus target under the programme was 4.5%. The government would therefore have to make it compulsory from the beginning of 2015 until the end of 2016 - I am talking for a two-year period - to close a budget gap of 4.2%, a gap, if you want, a little more than 7.5 billion euros. I will accept the macroeconomic assumptions of the same medium-term fiscal strategy, which predicted a rate of 2.9% for 2015 and 3.7% for 2016. I will not comment on it, I will accept it as it is. Even with the most optimistic forecasts of what we call budgetary comfort, i.e. the ability of the economy to produce extra revenue without new measures as a result of growth, the gap of more than 7.5 billion would remain somewhere in the region between EUR 5 and 5 billion. The New Democracy - PASOK government should have found 5 to 5.5 billion euros in this two-year period to achieve the 2016 target. Unless he couldn't get him. How does a budget gap of this kind close? It tells us very typically - and rightly so, I would add, the Financial Strategy Framework 2012-2015. It says, therefore, on page 19, in the section "The fiscal adjustment": "The policy mix of the government's policies..." - refers to the then tripartite government - "the aim of creating from 2014 onwards primary surpluses of over 6% of GDP, which requires..." - hear the - "... the measures, which aim, first, to increase revenue, i.e. taxation and secondly, to reduce expenditure". He doesn't find the wheel. Obviously, if you want to go from a primary deficit or a marginal surplus to a primary surplus of 4.5% or 6%, you will either tax or reduce costs. That's what the previous government's medium-term is saying. This is therefore not an unnecessary overtax. Same - in my opinion, greater - overtax would occur if things were left as they were in 2014, but at an extra cost. And the extra cost is that a government that does not keep its word, which is constantly falling out of its objectives, cannot restore budgetary credibility and cannot therefore restore market confidence in the medium-term sustainability of public finances, cannot return to markets and locks the country in an endless cycle of recession and austerity. I'll go to second place now. I see an obsession on the part of the Officerial Response to the question of state lending by General Government Bodies - Mr Fortsakis has placed himself on this - in other words by supervising and subsidising bodies. So the New Democracy blames us for not lending the remaining money in the European Stability Mechanism file, a little more than EUR 20 billion, rather than lending for short-term liquidity needs by general government bodies, that is to say, parts of the general government. It amazes me as a place. The answer is very simple. Firstly, when you are borrowed by the European Stability Mechanism or by the markets, it increases public debt. If we took 20 additional billion from the European Stability Mechanism, the public debt would be 10% higher than it is now. With a very high public debt, the impact on borrowing costs would be significant. Loans from general government bodies do not increase public debt. The general government debt does not increase when the State uses its own cash reserves. Because that's what we're talking about. Cash reserves of general government entities are its own cash reserves. I imagine that the New Democracy suggests that if these cash reserves were not used, operators would be able to channel higher liquidity into the economy. Listen to something. General government bodies shall implement budgets. Cash reserves do not use at least in the last three years. That's why public finances are where they are now. To say a few words - as time is running out - on today's plenary. I also pointed out to the committee quite thoroughly that, in my opinion and the government, the 2016 budget is a milestone for three different reasons. First of all, it is the first budget which does not fall outside either the forecast or the target. I repeat how important this is - since it is sustainable, since it is repeated in the coming years, as in 2017, as it will be in 2018 - for restoring credibility, restoring confidence, reducing the cost of borrowing and therefore the end of the committee. Secondly, the budgetary result of a general government for the first time in modern Greek history was positive, it was 0.4%. To say this quite simply, the Greek state for the first time was able to cover not only its own costs, but also the public debt interest. Thirdly and finally, the debt has increased marginally, not because the Greek State has had to borrow to consume or pay interest, but only for the repayment of the Greek State's due obligations. I think that for these three reasons the 2016 budget laid the foundations for the return of credibility in the management of public finances, the declining of borrowing costs, the stabilisation of the economy and the end of the committee’s closure in August 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u90	We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives. I'd like to make a derogation, because Mr. Loverdos is also in the Constitutional Review Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u91	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u92	Are you all? Then we'll go in a row. First of all, I would like to say that three colleagues from ANELs, Potami and the Central Association do not want their parliamentary representatives to speak. Mr Meikopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor, with the request that the time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a somewhat general remark, which I would say has historical time. I think that love for the country is not hatred against anyone I disagree or against who is different, it's not intolerance, it's not division. If we find historically what has happened, when a country was loved by its people in this way, then the greatest manslay in the history of humanity was caused. There were forty million dead. But let's get into it now. We have become accustomed in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, during the years of fiscal adjustment, to limit our political confrontation on the general picture of the economy. We analyse the general indicators, fundamental sizes and when these indicators, when this picture is good, then conflict is limited only there. But why is this conflict limited? Because even if there is this positive time, this was not translated over the past few years with nothing in social everyday life. There was the big problem. In other words, the numbers may have prospered, but people did not prosper. But what is today's reality? What's today's picture? With the agreement we had on the debt in August 2018, with the closure of the last budget adjustment programme, those budgetary margins were created so that we can now recover part of our budgetary discipline. What does that mean, so we can do it lined up? We have been able to reduce ENPIA, lower insurance contributions, restore collective bargaining, return retroactively. As a result, conditions have been created for the general economic indicators to be translated into social everyday life. So, this picture today is lightning in hunger? No, it's a product of a very specific route. The start, in my opinion, has been since 2016 for three reasons. The first reason is that in 2016 the Greek economy for the first time after many years did not need funds either for the budget, for public consumption, or for the repayment of interest. The second reason is that the primary surplus of the general government was also, for the first time, 3.7% of GDP. What does that mean? It means that the Greek economy showed in 2016 the tendency to be able to put its public finances into order and that it did not need to borrow to finance public expenditure. And the third and final reason is that in 2016 the budgetary result of the general government was positive, of 0.4% of GDP. For people to understand what this meant, it meant that very simply the country did not need credit not only for public spending, but not even for interest. For the first time, then, we are in a position to produce sustainable primary surpluses and for the first time we have a positive financial result. There, then, in 2016, is also the seed that created today's image. Was the 2016 budget and the next two expansionists? No, they were both restrained. We were therefore called, in this case, two years ago, to reconcile the need for an unavoidable financial adjustment so that we could avoid the worst scenario of economic collapse, in our own direction for social policy, alleviate the financially weak and protect the socially weak. If there is one question, ladies and gentlemen, at least on a personal level speaking, is whether it has been worth going into the advent of managing a budget adjustment programme since 2015. In my opinion, it was worth it because we proved that we could promote a completely different programme, a completely different political aim with a culmination, the protection of the socially weak, and, slowly, the management - and this proves to be the case today - in the situation where we can and have the opportunity to cancel burdensome terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. We proceed with Mr Ioannis Kefaloniannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief. I will repeat a few things that I mentioned in my speech yesterday, because I hear here many times a virtual reality presented by the SYRIZA Government. If one can condensate in one phrase what SYRIZA and Independent Greeks have done for the last four years, it is, in fact, four lost years for the economy. And we don't. First of all, as the International Labour Office has said before, it says in its current report that in 2017, wages in Greece fell by 3.5% and was the largest reduction pan-European. The wages reached 2014 levels. So that tells you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that for four years all you have achieved is bringing wages to the levels of 2014. This is what Greek society is experiencing. And I agree with the previous speaker on one thing: they don't care about macroeconomic figures, they don't care about the numbers that might be written on paper. They care what they're experiencing. And it comes today the International Labour Office and tells you that wages in 2018 in Greece reached the levels of 2014, that is, where you received them. One of the prisoners. The Ministry of Finance comes in and says that the debt to GDP at the moment is about 183%. If you received the report that the European Commission had made in 2014, a report which you yourself too adopt in your budgets, you will see that EUR 70 billion of GDP has been lost from your own governance. Instead of the debt at the moment being at 144%, as predicted in 2014 - I repeat, with the documents that you yourself have adopted in the budgets of previous years - you are now at 183%. And that is the "achievement" of your own governance. The OECD is coming - and I tabled the documents yesterday - and it tells you the same things. So one is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple: unfortunately, four lost years for the economy. All the rest, what you're saying, that we come out in the clearing, that we go out on the markets, that the memorials are over, I think, for the simple Greek, for the simple Greeks is a virtual reality. Another thing is that he is experiencing and knows very well that even the surplus that the Prime Minister says - of course, if he were in other uncompromising times, he would say 'blooded' overrun - is the result of overtaxation, which the Ministry of Finance now admits is the result of the fact that you have actually cut off the Public Investment Programme by about EUR 1.3 billion. You do not give around EUR 700 million of taxes back to the citizens who are waiting for them and will be a breath for the market. All this, yes, creates a financial area that strangles the market, strangles growth and unfortunately leads to a redistribution of poverty. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, all you have achieved is in fact to keep hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens hostage with a subsidised policy, an anti-development policy and, on the contrary, to break, to hit the backbone of the Greek economy, the Greek society, which are the small and medium-sized ones. So when you yourself now admit that this budgetary policy - unnecessarily budgetary policy, because if there were no SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in 2015, it would be inappropriate for you to celebrate the EUR 10 billion which you have taken over this period - plus the strangulation of the middle-class, it has brought the Greek society into this situation today, I think it is at least hypocritical to celebrate today, after four years and say that we are going out in the clear. I repeat: If, in a phrase, we can condensate the policy of the present government over the last four years, it has been four lost years for the Greek economy. Unfortunately, you derailed the course that we had at the end of 2014. I think you'd admit it if we were to discuss it off cameras and outside this Chamber. Unfortunately, because you want to have your own account, even now you do not have the political courage to assume your responsibilities and say "yes, we made mistakes, mostly in the first half of 2015". It is challenging to hear in this Chamber that what has happened in 2015, which has actually cost us indirectly and directly, according to the European institutions that you themselves are working together, around 100 billion, according to moderate calculations. So at least let's have the political bravery to admit that 'yes, we made mistakes' and at least we can discuss the next day how our country can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with an issue that is not relevant to our debate today. My intervention will take thirty seconds. Minister, we asked this morning for the convening of the National Foreign Policy Council, which has managed these four years of acute confrontation between us to keep its cool and to maintain the confidentiality of its meetings without half a leak. We have had a change in the Foreign Minister, and we have tensions in the region, which force us to see the issues again through this way, which is a very creative way, namely through the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council. I am referring to Turkey and also to the latest events in Ukraine. I do not want to say any more, because I do not have time, but we are calling on the government and we are asking for this, and we have submitted it as a request today and hopefully a positive response. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have time, but because I listened yesterday to Mr Juliarakis in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which we were discussing on the budget, I would like to make one - two general observations and ask him one - two questions. First of all, with regard to visa policy, I would like to say that by listening to the Deputy Minister of Finance, one is aware of an approach on the issues of national accounts and the course of the economy through numbers, but does not understand why this political reason is linked to the political speech of 2014, 2015, 2016, year of which we are making it today, and generally the wider political reason of today's majority. There is a different reason behind the arguments of the Ministry of Finance, which set up another political subject, not the political subject who won the 2015 elections and believes it will win them back. But they are their words in general. We disagree with the fairs. Turning into a Cyclades celebration, as they say on these islands, doesn't make any sense today. It is the wrong approach to economics. By formulating your economic successes with surpluses, when it comes from the reports of the General Secretariat for Revenue that 6,000,000 euros have emerged for the year 2018, with confiscations of accounts, one realizes that one is talking about an economy that suffers, which is suffering, which has a great deal, but a great deal of problems. If, however, additions and problems resulting from the non-funding of jobs, as is apparent from the OAU statistics, you have money for operational programmes relating to employment subsidies and you do not use them - but also for other issues, the reduction of the Public Investment Programme, the reduction of tax reimbursement, one understands that we are being told of fictitious figures. I would like to ask the Minister about two issues. Firstly, if the government agrees with the proposal of the central bank, Mr Stournara, for the transfer of all red loans to a 'bad bank', if this proposal has an influence on the government today, and if it is dealing with the acute issue of red loans and given the level of banks and, in particular, their shares, there is a positive response on this proposal. I heard him yesterday, the Deputy Minister in the Standing Committee, opposing opposition to the costs of our own proposals. I do not know which party it was talking about, but I was there and because we made a proposal for a law ten days ago with proposals relating to economic policy, Mr. Deputy Minister yesterday cost a few measures. I didn't restrain it all, but I kept his spirit. It says: if we return VAT to the focus of 13%, it produces a cost - you said, I think, if I remember it well - EUR 500,000, 000 and you brought more measures together. But these were the measures in force in 2014. Somehow yesterday you recorded the cost of having SYRIZA and ANEL to the government. You've recorded the cost of your own governance. That's all there was. And not only were there, but they had stimulated the economy and you remember that when we made the closure of the year 2014, you admitted the growth rates of that time. It was the first year of economic development. So what is the point today of saying that returning to the measures that were in existence is a policy of impulse? We have also made proposals here, Mr President, as many times as I have referred to our proposals, only to the proposals for returning to the measures that were in existence. I didn't do anything - at least me - to add a new provision. Back to the level there was. And as, rightly so, you are told in the House, on many issues with the recurring problems that you are doing, you are trying to approach the field of the economy as it was in the year 2014, when we were trying to get out of the crisis and go out, as other countries were coming out. Not that things were changing for the citizen and that they were going amazingly, but after a difficult five years, we were going on and we had to go back to make an opening year of all these sufferings in 2015, which we all remember and the government remembers. How can one forget the period Tsipras - Varoufakis and the cost that it brought to the Greek economy and the citizens? No one can forget it. Therefore, making an effort to reintroduce the levels that existed before and which led to the country and the citizens coming out of the crisis, I do not think this is an appropriate political intervention, especially in today's election days. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that to close, Mr President, that at the moment if we leave the talk about national accounts and move on to the political speech and political dialogue that is developing within society, for the present majority there is only one prospect, the refuge for the political past. Why? Is that an exaggeration? Is it a phrase, like, of political decency? Oh, no. It's a word spoken, weighed and serious. Why? Because in 2014, after an agonizing effort, we have taken a step out and had to change the correlations between the political bodies of power, that is to say, in order to change the face of the Prime Minister and the faces of the ministers, the country has to bear this dramatic economic cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the PAEL Megalopolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We've been continuing with Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas since the Golden Dawn. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the political and economic position of today is concerned, I was covered by the speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn - I would just like to add that since the debate in the past year, that is, in 2016, these have been judged in practice by the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen, has paid them, i.e. the tax storm and the tax measures that "knowledge" the Greek economy at all its levels, the excess that was supposedly privatization of all public property, but in many cases other states were buyers. From there, however, you have sucked all the mattresses of Greek society. You've dived the public property. SYRIZA has become the most faithful servant of the memorials and you see your percentages falling to Tartara and all you have as hope and finally saves you is the consensual Civicism of the New Democracy, which does not make any real effort against you. I heard the Prime Minister on the channel the day before yesterday saying in a phrase - I got her in the middle - for someone who cheated, says, the Greek people the years of the memorials and was financially reluctant to the Greeks. For a moment I really thought the Prime Minister was self-criticizing and talking about himself and about the memorial years of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Then I realized that he's talking about Mr. Richard, as he said, the well-known owner of the pawn chain, which we all knew had twice before. So, what happened when you arrested him because he didn't give the necessary documentation to the jewelers? What happened? Where'd that end up? We all saw him in all the channels of interlocutory advertising with a fourth advertisement in time that a lot of people really see and wonder how much he pays him. We learned that he gave 100,000 euros a day to the channels, to pay advertising time, to those channels that swear Golden Dawn from morning till night. And one wonders: Is that all this pawnshop exists? Isn't there any other pawn shops that step on the Greek citizen's need for the difficult years of the memorandum and steal his property? So to close all pawn shops, which is the most rotten representative of capitalism. Now, with regard to the occupations, I would like to ask the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman why I was asked a question: 'Macedonia is Greek' is intolerance and racist? Against who? The occupations are made for the Greekity of Macedonia. They are against the shameful Prespecies Agreement, which was not wanted by the Skopje and VMRO, because it was good for us, but they finally voted for it, which was recently taken out of their holes by the comedians in Skopje and Florina, who three and the koukos go to their conferences, but state national Macedonians, "which just happened", says, "to stay in Greece, we are national Macedonians". In short, the students came out to shout against the agreement that gives the Skopje what they wanted and what they wanted, the name, because no one will remember the "north", Macedonia will tell them, the nationality that will be Macedonian, the language you call Macedonian. The students, then, on their initiative, have entangled you in your own political lies. Were you from SYRIZA in favour of conquests? The Prime Minister is not in favour of conquests? You don't mind, of course, that students are taking possessions. You don't mind that no one controls these occupations. You mind it's national issues - Skopje - the occupations. You go to the Polytechnic, you get kicked out. They take over schools, and it's against the deal you brought as a government. I understand both your grief and your pain. But in this matter, you are also judged by the differentists. You've been throwing your students' minds left and anti-national poison. I am, of course, pleased and pleased that I know very well that students self-sufficiently and purely express their national and patriotic sensitivity. They do not give in to the bullying that they receive from several teachers, or by giving them responsible statements to sign their parents that they are willing to take part in the conquests, to blame parents for being motivated, or those who even intercept personal data from messages from students to threaten them. You've been pressing them for so long with the criminalisation of national pride, with anti-racist vacant threats even for national symbols that one could have at his school, a racial identities and a alteration of Orthodox religious identity in the books of schools. Well, the students came and broke up. They live all the problems of their family, they also have this pressure to stop believing in ideals they have learned from their homes. Because good or bad have homes. It's not just schools and their teachers. What are you guys doing here? To close, to say you're making a big mistake for you, even though you think it's propaganda very good. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President, I'm closing. As there is, then, the course of the professional orientation that forms the innate tendencies and thoughts of younger and larger pupils in a professional, anyway, direction, you now bring in and create a political and ideological orientation. You tell the students that what they think, the innate, pure and source thought, the national, the patriotic, is only the Golden Dawn. And I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u100	And we close with Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. There goes too much Golden Dawn to talk about patriotism. Those who collaborated with the conquerors, the Germans, the Italians and the Bulgarian conquerors, who enslaved the country and above all the Greek people. It's too much to talk about Greek flags by those who had in their enclosures the glazed cross. In this respect, therefore, we would expect nothing more than another manifestation of hatred towards the people. After all, fascism and nationalism have always been the best tool for American and naval imperialists to share and share areas, to change the borders, to impose their interests on the people. In this respect, therefore, as the Prespecies Agreement, which serves the plans of the American imperialists, so fascism and nationalism with the Golden Dawn serves the same interests: to change the borders, to redistribute markets. And from this point of view, those parties that cultivate nationalism, those parties that support the plans of the imperialists cannot respond to fascism. From this point of view, and the Greek Government, which brought this agreement, the Prespecies Agreement, which is, in essence, the signifier of the American imperialists in our country, cannot give a convincing response to the fascist latitude. That is why the Communists, as they crushed fascism in World War II with the Red Army, are today going to break fascism once again. We'll throw him away from the schools from the neighborhoods and the factories. This, just to have a conscience of what is to be done for the next period. With regard to the bill, the ratification of the balance sheet, the State's balance sheet for the financial year 2016, as pointed out, is the first budget, which was implemented, in the third memorandum, a memorandum - I would remind you - that SYRIZA and ANEL voted, of course, as government, but also the other parties of the Opposition: the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami. It is a third memorandum that was the follow-up to both the first and the second memorandum. We just had a change of government that took over from New Democracy and the PASOK. And the third memorandum, like the two previous ones, had a double, twofold objective: the first, of course, was budgetary discipline, burdening the burdens of the capitalist crisis and budgetary consolidation on the backs of the people. How did they do that? With the huge tax raid, pension cuts, wage cuts, reductions in social spending, health and education. And the second is nothing more than speeding up the implementation of a series of reforms - capitalist restructuring we call them - which would form an even more favourable environment for the action of business groups and shield the competitiveness of capitalist enterprises, precisely to prepare the ground for capitalist development. Therefore, the rights of workers, workers' rights, labour rights, employment relations, minimum wages, insurance, trade union rights have entered into a sacrifice on the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability. This very mechanism, which has shaped a working jungle, is maintained by the current government and the results of what is happening in the private sector are very revealing. So the bloody primary surpluses come from this policy. In fact, 2016 was also beastly, about 3.5% for the first time, as the Minister rightly said in his intervention, compared to the previous years. However, these beastly primary surpluses come precisely from escalation, the escalation of popular interests. And through these bloody beastly primary surpluses, firstly, they come in order to serve the state debt, so to serve the interests of lenders, and secondly, to recycle poverty with the so-called social dividends they give. This social dividend that has been given and now, with the recent amendment adopted yesterday, does nothing but cultivate a logic in the world, a logic of reduced requirements: 'Do not claim to satisfy your needs. Make yourself comfortable with these crumbs that give you the various benefits." From this point of view, this is precisely the aim of the New Democracy and the PASOK's criticism of how to manage the phenomena of extreme poverty created by the policy of governments, today and earlier, and the capitalist system itself, so that radical dispositions can be manipulated and the popular consciousness between Scylla and Harbour is encapsulated. After all, in the period of capitalist development, Minister - and it is no accident - the same policy continues: Degrade the position of the working people's family, even though we have growth and call on it to live with the various benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, it is not going to change the situation. From this point of view, therefore, we say that with the 2019 state budget the burdens will be paid by the people with extra taxes. So, through this process, with the bloody primary surpluses continuing in the biennial, with memorial laws defining and signaling the life of the working class, the Greek people will not find relief. Therefore, the organisation of the struggle with greater determination, the overthrow of correlations can shape conditions for the relief of the people, but above all to shape all these conditions that can satisfy modern and enlarged needs. From this point of view, we will also vote against the balance sheet and balance sheet for 2016. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u102	Minister, if you want to answer some of the questions that have been asked, you can answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u103	I have nothing to add, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: "a. Consolidation of the State’s Report, financial year 2016 and b. Consolidation of the State’s Balance Sheet, financial year 2016.’ Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Repeal of the State's State's State's State's Report, financial year 2016’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of State Report, financial year 2016’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u105	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Statement of the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2016’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Balance sheet of the State, financial year 2016’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u106	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting, including the discussion and vote of the State's statement and balance sheet, for the financial year 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u107	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-29-S1-commons.u108	With the agreement of the House at 13.16 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, November 30, 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) Topical Questions, (b) The debate on the number 5/5/10-10-10-2018 of the Members of Parliament's Parliamentary Group of the New Democracy on the subject: "SYRIZA has turned PPC from a development pillar into a systemic risk to the Greek economy", according to the agenda distributed.
