ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to make it clear to the House that the fourth under number 99/24-10-2018 is not going to be discussed, with a timely question for the second cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". Secondly, the eighth Question No 55/11-10-2018 will not be discussed in the context of a second question by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Skaramaga". Furthermore, the ninth question under number 2/1-10-2018 will not be discussed in the nineteenth cycle of the MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was conducted by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies' agreement". Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers: The second question under number 127/5-11-2018 of the first-round question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Department of Public Property in Dodecanese", will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Tsakalotou. The third, with number 129/5-11-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Procedure for the licensing and retrospective taxation of online betting companies”, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. The fourth under number 136/11-2018, a top-stage question for the first cycle of Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of the bill of contribution by Law 128/1975 for the help of the East Attica" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos. The fifth question under number 136/6-11-2018 is the first-round question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", it will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance. The second question by number 131/6-11-2018, the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Why refuse to answer the Ministry of Finance for the rest of the Molyviats Fund?", will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Tsakalotou. The first question under number 128/11-2018, a second question from the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister for Health on radiopharmaceuticals, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the relevant Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Polakis. We begin with the sixth question, number 101/25-10-2018, on the second question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Conservation of children”. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I rise to speak to the Minister in a slow motion because yesterday I ran the forty-two kilometers of the Marathon and sent a message from this Chamber to all people regardless of age that sport is today the best medicine for long-term diseases and I recommend it without any preservative without each and every one of us going beyond its limits and reaching the limits of arrogance. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the President of the SEGAS, Mr Panagopoulos, because he has made this fact of the original Marathon - this is the authentic route - a global event not only athletic, but also in terms of the country's economy, because thousands of people from all over the world and their families these days are here. Minister, I do not know if this is the fifth or sixth time I have been in this Chamber on the subject of conscientiousness, but you are the third Minister to whom I address the Tsipras Government. The first Minister, Mr. Panayotopoulos, gave me two messages. The first message is that the reform of family law is imminent, really expected legislative and legislative in the end. In this context, secondly, that conscientiousness is studied, because modern tendencies in family law should the couple not be able to go on bringing up the child together and break up internal relations, both parents want to be diligent in their child as it grows. The Minister said that both are imminent. He wasn't sure if he'd accept the conscientiousness, he was close. I asked him a few months later because he spent a long time and we had no results and he gave me a timetable of March - April 2016. There was no continuity because it was reconstructed. I asked Mr. Contonis a couple of questions. At first he was negative, leaving a pin of hope and in the second he was completely negative. I ask you, Minister: will you, first of all, submit a draft family law? And secondly, is diligence included in this plan as a modern form of custody of minors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Because you have reports in your question, thoughts about the problem, to say that I sign them. Indeed - and we live it every day - the solution to a marriage or the dimension to a marriage cause, among other things, the main and, in my opinion, the most problematic issue to do with the way children are treated. And that is - I appreciate - the tough core of this debate and the resolution of such an important problem. Because, indeed, there is one - let me the term - outrage between opposite parents, who often forget exactly that at the end the one who can either benefit or harm is the child itself. There are two legs. The first part is about the reform of family law. You know better than me, Mr Loverdo, that in fact - because you have also referred to the Marathon - the reforms that have to do with family law are a marathon struggle. The major reform took place in 1983. Since then, there has been a reform concerning the law of adoption in 1996. Since 1983, we have reached 1996! And then we had a first nomadic preparation during Mr. Kastanides' period in 2010. It did not, however, result - and the work of the committee was extended - in a concrete way. There was one of our own interventions in terms of the law of admission by a recent law of 2018. You know that. There have been the issues of the cohabitation pact since the condemnation of our country and the extension of the cohabitation pact. So with regard to the first question of what we intend to do in connection with the reform of family law, I would like to reply to you: Legislation started on 14-02-2018, 2018. I'll testify to the ministerial decision. [[At this point, Minister Michael Kalogerou presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And now, in September, once I took up my duties, there was an extension until March 2019. So, Mr. Loverdos, the end date is March 2019. I was informed by the members of the Legislative Committee that if they complete their work earlier, they will submit the plan to me before March 2019. I shall be brief, Mr President, and I shall return to my dentistry. What is the matter with regard to what we call 'consciousness'? What do we have - why do we have to start - today? We have the issue of so-called joint custody. Is joint custody foreseen? Indeed, it is predictable. How is that defined? It's determined in two ways. The first is by consensual procedure, i.e. by the two parents' agreement to the joint exercise of custody. The second way is to entrust joint custody by judicial decision in cases of litigation. What problems - and indeed in this regard is the timely and important question you have put to us - arise? Many times also the product of consensus and the results - that is, what the judicial decision orders at the level of joint diligence - are not complied with or creates new problems. In this experience, therefore, we have - in other words, what happens in cases of joint custody and in all the problems arising in the areas of communication, in matters of decisions relating to education or health problems of children - it seems that there are many times when legal decisions or consensus has been reached on the parties. So, what does that cause in my view? It causes the need to legislate in this context that I told you, namely, the new family law, which is being prepared by the Legislative Committee to resolve these issues. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm going to be more specific in my dentistry. However, I think it is very important that, at the end of the legislative committee's work, we will all be called upon to take part in a dialogue, in the so-called consultation. That is where I think it would be important to involve all the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, from this debate on the topical and urgent question it seems that time will not be wasted, that is, time for parliamentarians here. Because none of the arguments - an alibi of other Ministers has been handled by the present Minister. So we start with a very positive basis. I would like to say to him that the first and great reform of family law took place in 1983 by the government of Andreas Papandreou. This change is historic and remains in many parts of the world. The new government, she, in two years' time, made big divisions. This government has four years on a matter of rights, which is supposed to be a privileged area of this political area that it is currently governing, and nothing has been done. I am now listening and I am surprised that the Committee on the Family Code has become again, reconstructed, that is, in March 2018. Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u7	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u8	The previous committees? Mr. Panagiotopoulos said we were over. All these previous committees were found to be useless? They didn't do their job well? It's been all these years. And now there is a new date happyly within the current election cycle and before the European elections and the others who know how many elections in March 2019. I got it. I would like to say to the Minister, however, that our problem, as he rightly said, is not a problem as long and continuous legislation. For many years, the case law has in the end seen the custody of the child belonging only to the mother. The case law, I'm not saying the law. In other words, the practice is that. And dramas are too much. Since I took this issue on me - and Mr Amyras has been very helpful to me - I cannot describe it to you, Mr President. In all the cities of Greece that I am going for political speech, one or two people come and tell me "solve this problem". There are dramas resulting from the discrepancies of the divorced couple to be resolved on the basis of equality. So we listen positively to the fact that in March 2018 we have a new timetable. It is the third consecutive, but in any case we have it. It belongs within this election cycle, so we can count for weeks until we arrive in March as long as we are well. I ask you: With more specific, legal terms in your dentistry, as Minister of Justice, in the area of conscientiousness, what will you be cutting as a change the world expects and which you have thought of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u9	Yes, sir. It's a question, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr Loverdos, to be precise and to be fair, we must say that in the medium term this government has not been inactive in terms of family law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u11	That's right. We voted for them anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u12	What do I mean? I told you before that there was the Prefecture of Castanides, whose result did not go any further. You may know something about it. But what happened in the middle? In the medium term, the legal recognition of gender was extended, and the law on the assumption of 2018. And these are pieces of legislation, which relate to family law, and therefore the work that has been done - collectively, governmentally - on these issues has covered these three axes with the legislation that has already been passed and that is the first prisoner. Therefore, there is the legal form in February 2018 and continues, as I said, the highest by March 2019, which will come to regulate these issues as a whole. What direction? First of all, Mr Loverdos, we must consult ourselves on what we mean conscientiousness. Why am I saying that? Because you realise that the issues of joint diligence, so-called conscientiousness, are extremely sensitive to the act, namely how it will be implemented. There are clear issues. What are the clean issues? Net issues are a constant request, which the fathers are actually addressing in particular - with the representatives of their associations in the next few years - because it is true that neither judicial decisions nor the law itself ignores important aspects of their indebtedness in the exercise of custody by the mother, in which most of the time, in fact, the court entrusts custody. These issues have to do with education, with decisions to be taken jointly by parents in relation to education issues. There are specific issues relating to the health of children who have health problems where codecision should be given to both of them in terms of how to solve such major problems. Other problems, which have actually occurred in recent years, have to do with relocating children with their mothers not only in another city, but in another country. So this issue has to be dealt with as well. Where do they move exactly toward the outside? There is a very sensitive issue, to which we can continue this dialogue in all possible ways, with regard to changing nights, with changing residences. This is the most sensitive part which needs discussion and which is carefully viewed by the prefecture, because there are issues of the scientific community, that is, the scientific community table proposals, pediatricians, etc., if this is a positive or problematic issue, staying a child 15 days with one parent and fifteen days with the other. I think that is the most central point in this debate and there may be different proposals and opinions. There are the resolutions of the Council of Europe, which need to be taken into account, and there are the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, so all this must take into account, so that there is at least one debate to see where it will lead, what the committee is going to tell us about the changing home. I imagine you'll come back and I'll come back. The union meetings will follow. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] I would like to make one final comment, Mr President, if I may, and it is very important, because there are many discussions behind the door. In other words, in the visits made to both the parliamentary groups and the Members of Parliament and the Ministry there are positions which we then see changes or change in some way in the public debate. It is good on an issue that is so sensitive, because - I repeat - of what we agree and about the life of thousands of children, at least at this point, it is good to be clear about our public debates. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights tabled a draft law on 12-11-2018: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems throughout the Union’. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that I am presenting this report. 14018/8813 of 12 November 2018, a decision by the President of the Parliament was established by the Subcommittee for Combating Trade and Exploitation of People of the Special Standing Committee on Equal Opportunities for Youth and Human Rights. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I will announce the timely questions which will not be discussed by the relevant ministers. The third, with number 100/25-10-2018, topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "With tied hands to the Greek Police while the illegality rises to the Greek universities", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth, under No. 110/29-10-2018, topical question by MP Larissa of the New Republic, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "New outbreaks of violence from marginal areas", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question under number 68-16-10-2018 by MP Phytidis of the New Democracy, Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek government and making available for social purposes”, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, who is outside Greece. The tenth under number 36/8-10-2018, a topical question by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of General Government expenditure, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, who is outside Greece. The first question will be discussed with number 130/6-11-2018, the first question of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Theodoras Jackis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Integration of the Pella Prefecture in the First Zone for the grant of the heating oil allowance". Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 15 October the distribution of heating oil has begun, the prices of which, compared to last year, are 20% more expensive because of an increase in international oil prices. Just because the Ministry of Finance knows that this development is unfavourable for a large category of citizens, especially in northern Greece, it is thinking, it is rethinking the increase in the budget line for the heating allowance from over-performance, so as to fully compensate for the increase in international prices. Let me say, of course, that the distribution of regional units in the country to various climatic zones has not been made, Minister, on objective criteria, and as a result the Pellas Prefecture is part of the 2nd Zone, despite the fact that in mid-border terms it has lower temperatures than that of Serres Prefecture, which is part of the 1st Zone and its citizens enjoy a higher ceiling of subsidized oil per square main residence. From a simple glance at the evidence I had submitted, Minister, to the Ministry of Finance - they are elements of the National Meteorological Service, the Centre for Meteorological Research, the ELGA CEMR - it appears that it is more than necessary to include the Pella Prefecture in the First Zone, from the second in which it was found, in complete, I would say, irrational criteria and unsuccessfully by decisions of the previous government. What, therefore, do these elements of the National Meteorological Service and more specifically the temperature record sheets for the period from 2015 to 2018 and for the months from October to April? The figures show that the average monthly temperature of minimum daily temperature at the Edessa and Serres station was 4.36 degrees Celsius and for Serres 4,43 degrees Celsius. Also, on the basis of daily temperature record sheets of the JEMM shows that during the same period, 2015 to 2018 and for the months again October to April, the monthly average price of the minimum daily temperature at various stations of Edessa and Serres was for Giannitsa 5,67 degrees Celsius, Galatia 5,07 degrees Celsius, Aridia 4,67 degrees Celsius, Venoritis 3,42 degrees Celsius, Kelsius 3,03 degrees Celsius and Serres were 4,27 degrees Celsius, Kerkin 6,11 degrees Celsius and Seersi Theotomy 5,70 degrees Celsius. Therefore, the study of the above figures shows that, as I said before, the integration of the Pella Prefecture into the Second Zone from the Third Zone directly requires, precisely in order to restore injustice against the Pella People's Square from this integration. Besides, Minister, the Ministry of Finance and you personally have said that the Ministry is re-examining the grant of the heating allowance so that it can be done more fairly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. MEP George Koumoutsakos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 12 November 2018 to 13 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, George Amyras, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 November 2018 until 3 December 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to point out that our primary objective and key criterion for government policy has been and is the maximum relief for the citizens affected by the budgetary difficulties that have been characterised for many years as the life of our country. As we all know, in recent years a series of measures have been taken with a positive financial commitment, in the context of the effort made, in order for our country to overcome the economic crisis and have a sound and strong economic and budgetary life and operation. However, it is certain that one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Finance is the fairest possible allocation of the heating allowance, as you mentioned, Mrs Jackson, in your prototype, always taking into account current financial data. Since the first time our Government has expressly expressed our determination to obtain as many resources as possible to provide this allowance to our fellow citizens who really need it. In particular, the beneficiaries, the conditions and the procedure for granting the heating allowance are defined each year by a decision of the Finance Ministers. Our Government, based on income and assets criteria, determines the procedure and conditions for granting the heating allowance. For the same purpose, detailed climatic studies carried out in the past established four climatic zones on the Greek territory, with a different maximum permitted amount of subsidy for each. At this point I would like to stress that already in the 2016 Ministerial Decision and in the 2017 Ministerial Decision, the provision of the municipalities, which according to the provisions of the 'KALIKRATI' law, are defined as mountainous, is explicitly included in the next upper zone from that of the prefecture to which they belong. This has been done precisely in the light of the optimum distribution of available resources and the amount available for the heating oil allowance, as some of the mountain areas of these prefectures, which are in some other areas, have had lower temperatures in the next few months. Here, of course, I would like to say that with Law 4555/2018, "KLITHENI", as we all know, a new article was added to the law of "KOLIKRATH" and since then, as mountain municipalities, they are now defined by "KALIKRATITH" and those that are characterized as mountainous mountainous in the Greek Statistical Authority. According to this new regulation, areas that were not designated as mountainous regions by the competent authorities now, since 50% of their communities are designated mountainous areas, will be part of the next upper climatic zone and will receive an increased subsidy for heating oil. Mr President, because I see that my time is over, I will continue in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u20	Good. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u21	Minister, there are certain objective reasons for dictating the integration of Pella Prefecture into the first zone from the second, in which it is based on the specific distribution of the country's climatic zones, to which you have also referred. As far as the heating allowance is concerned, our government has continued to apply the same model applied by the previous governments. This model is based precisely on the distribution of the regions of the country, the counties of the country in four climatic zones, but on the basis of the average temperature value received from the National Meteorological Service. Based on these values of the National Meteorological Agency and CEMI data, which I have presented to you in your office, but I can also present for the needs of the Practics, it appears that the Pellas Prefecture has lower average temperatures than those of the Serres, which fall within the first climate zone. [[At this point the Member, Mr.Theodora Jackis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Department of Stenography and Practice.]] I believe, Minister, that the Pellas Prefecture is necessary for objective reasons. Just the same happened in the days of our government and in other prefectures. Because, as you can see, in this way I am telling you, today it is actually shown that the distribution of regions in the various climate zones was not done objectively, and in any case did not take place with strict scientific criteria, they have embedded injustices, which have been corrected. For example, the injustice was corrected in the case of Serres Prefecture, which rose from the second zone to the third zone. It was corrected in the case of the Prefecture of Ioannina, which also came up from the 2nd zone in the 1st zone. The same happened with your own constituency, Minister, Magnesia, where from the third zone, because they had liberated such injustices, as far as the average temperatures were concerned, went up to the second zone. That was right because it is not possible for Magnesia to be in the same climate zone as the Attica region. The same is true of Pella, on the basis of certain measurable facts. This material is specific and it is not random. I mean, it wasn't just for a year. It's been done for three consecutive years. This means that it has not happened, Minister, but that this is the usual situation. Pellas Prefecture is one of the northern counties of the country. All the surrounding counties, the Florina Prefecture, the Serres Prefecture, which I told you earlier, the Dramas Prefecture falls within the 1st zone, except the Pella Prefecture. Pellas Prefecture is surrounded by very large mountain tumors. It's Voras - Kaikakzalan, Jenna, Pinovo, Paiko. The average temperatures, in most of these areas, in most months of the year are below zero, with particular elements. This means that seven months of heating is required per year. Even in areas considered to be plains, such as the Yannitsa, due to high humidity, the effects of ice cream are very often throughout the year. But there is also a second reason, equally important, for the integration of the Pella Prefecture into the first zone from the second zone. That is why it is environmental. Due to the increased oil prices, a very large category of citizens is forced to resort to alternative forms of heating, such as woods and fireplaces, so that at the moment, in the Pella forests, there is a real ecological disaster, Madam Secretary. The phenomena, the cases of illegal logging are daily, according to data from the two forests, Edessa and Almopia, so that our forests, literally, are destroyed. Therefore, for this additional reason, but also for measurable, objective reasons, related to comparable data, compared to laws, which currently fall within the 1st zone, Minister, I think that the accession of the Pella Prefecture to the 1st zone and for economic reasons should also proceed. As you can see, the reasons are very important, and most importantly, the households - you know that - and the families are divided, because of the economic conditions that exist. It would be a real breath for Pella's households could become this integration of the county into the 1st zone, where, as you well know, these increased subsidy limits per square metre of main residence exist. It would be a real breath. I think we really deserve it and deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, tens of five students and students and two teachers from the High School of Patmos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Following what I mentioned in my prototype, I would like to point out the following: According to the Municipalities, Communities and Settlements of the Hellenic Statistical Authority of 2011, from the eighty-nine communities of the Pella Prefecture, the fifty-eight are identified as plains, the ten as semi-finals and the twenty-one as mountainous. Of these twenty-one, most of them administratively belong to the Municipality of Edessa, in which the lower temperatures of the prefecture are presented, according to what is said in your question. Therefore, the Municipality of Edessa is likely to be included in this year's distribution of the heating oil allowance in a higher climatic zone, i.e. in the 1st zone, which receives the maximum subsidy. For the designated mountain municipalities, following the above-mentioned government legislation, we are expecting official data from the relevant Ministry of Interior in order to adjust the decision taken by our Ministry, always taking into account the country's budgetary situation. In conclusion, I should like to point out that the Ministry of Finance, in the context of the best possible social and economic policy, is already studying the possibility of increasing the amount, as you have mentioned in your protology, to be allocated for heating allowance or to the inclusion of laws in higher climatic zones, while at the same time working on the criteria for receiving the allowance and taking into account the increase, which is observed at international level in the price of crude oil. In this context, of course, and after the financial area, which will allow us to do so, the government intends to reassess the total amount, allocated to the heating oil premium for 2018-2019, with a view to strengthening the weakest social groups and always in the light of strengthening the country's economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-12-S1-commons.u25	With the consent of the House at 18.40 a meeting is closed for the next Wednesday 14 November 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the special agenda to be distributed.
