ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I want to start from the beginning, and before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I should like to express on behalf of the Greek Parliament and its President, Mr Nikos Voutsi, our pain and our deep sorrow for the unscrupulous tragedy that hit Attica, which hit our country. The Greek Parliament and its President express their solidarity and full support for the families of the victims and in general for the affected population. As Greek MPs, as a Greek parliament, we declare that we will contribute to the extent of our potential, as we can, to mitigate the pain - if pain can be reduced - of this tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the sixth Question No 76-17-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Large delays in the payment of the beneficiaries of the OAED unemployment programmes". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Athanasios Iliopoulos. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that I feel a little awkward and I do not know whether it is appropriate to discuss a timely question today when we are experiencing this national tragedy. First of all, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the relatives of the victims. Then I would like to express my deep gratitude and also my admiration to the staff and to the firefighting and the EMCDDA and to the hospitals. Many of the hospital workers - to stress this - ceased completely on their own, voluntarily without anyone asking them, their permits and returned to contribute. Finally, I would like to thank all our fellow citizens who volunteer either with their personal work or with food and water to all those fellow people who have been in this really painful situation. Today, the truth is that it is only time for unity and solidarity and not for confrontation. So I will try not to raise tons at all today, because it will be the last thing I would like to see. So I come to the issue of the topical and urgent question. Minister, in the daily lives of the citizens, but also in all the public at times, the country's main concern for the next day is to deal with unemployment. We in the New Democracy believe that in the long term tackling this major social problem can be tackled by implementing small and large private investment in our country that will in turn create well-paid jobs. We also support the existence of incentives in the private sector to create jobs for the unemployed. We know that there are - and we too have as a New Democracy - programmes to assist small and medium-sized enterprises in the implementation of programmes for the recruitment of unemployed people in the private sector and by social cooperatives. My topical question came as a result of my concern about the progress of these programmes, and I am conveying it to you because I received complaints in my constituency in Achaea. However, I think the problem is more general because the OAED programme as an intermediary launched at the end of 2016 and started to be implemented at the beginning of 2017 for ten thousand people aged between 30 and 49 in small and medium-sized enterprises has not yet, in 2018, repaid its beneficiaries, despite the assurances of the relevant service actors that the final programme will soon be repaid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. This is why the small and medium-sized enterprises, which you know, Mr Minister, have already suffered a huge burden because of the wage costs and the insurance contributions they have to pay as a result of your own policy. In fact, the programme's money comes mainly from European funds and it is, I think, really unacceptable that the beneficiaries have not yet been repaid. I would like, first of all, Minister, to tell me why the payment of the beneficiaries of the programme has been delayed and what the timetable for the completion of the OAS's obligations towards the beneficiaries has been. I would also like you to tell me whether there are any other programmes that have not gone ahead with their repayment. In my dentext I will move on to the issue of channelling these reserves, which, instead of being channelled to the labour market, are channelled into the reserves of the Bank of Greece. We shall discuss this in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Fotella, I think that your introductory remark on the criticality of today was very correct. I think in the world we need to thank are the men and women who work in the port and in the army. Especially since the harbor world has been a huge effort in the last few days. If I'm not mistaken, only by the action of the port were more than six hundred eighty people yesterday. Everyone can understand the size. I am going to go a little specifically into your question and answer the second part of my second question. On the 30-49 programme - which grants firms for the employment of the unemployed aged 30-49 - it is what we call a programme of new jobs, which grants 50% of the wage and non-wage costs of a worker with a ceiling of EUR 500 for twelve months. This programme was the first State aid programme, precisely because it was co-financed in the new programming period. This created an initial problem in the information system of state investments and in cooperation with OAED. Just because we quickly faced this problem, the programme was re-opened with national resources through the OAS, which was much easier to repay. Now, in this matter, the repayments are normally made and the assurance I have from the OAS service is that there will be no more outstanding in the next two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u5	Through a platform?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u6	That's right. Payments are now normally being made and I think that very soon all the problems that are open will have been closed. Obviously, this is where parliamentary control helps, as for anything that falls to your perception of this issue it will be useful to come back with the remarks. The second part is that these issues have now been corrected and other new jobs programmes with the logic of both co-financed and national resources will be declared very soon, because once both funds are in existence it would be a great mistake not to use either of the funds. Here I would just say a phrase just to go back to the initial part of the observation. I was just at the OAED Board meeting discussing some programmes and there is the agreement of the OAED Board as well as on the fires in 2007 there was a special support for the unemployed, so at the moment we are looking at all the financial possibilities that OAED has to support unemployed people, based on its statutes in the affected areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it really is a good thing that you told us today, that they have started properly. Of course, if there is any evidence to tell me how many have been paid to date and how many are left and how long you think the whole process will have been completed. I imagine that after you solved this problem you mentioned, the next programmes will not have the same problems and will normally be paid on time. I say this because, as I said at the outset, companies employing workers are already charged with wage costs and social security contributions and cannot withstand the pressure from the OAS. I have had the impression to date that these amounts, especially the majority of them, are subsidized. Are you telling me that this will be all from national resources if I understood well? Or part of it will be from national resources and part will be from subsidised programmes? Here I would also like to say a word, because beyond Ν.1160/50, which in some way obliges their funds to be transferred to the Bank of Greece, but, since it is also Community funds and money that people expect to live in order to meet their main needs, I think they should somehow be channelled directly into the labour market rather than into the reserves of the Bank of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Fotella, I say this again so that there is no misunderstanding. Informing the services is that within the next two months everyone will be paid. I am very happy to come back with concrete information on where the payments are now being made. It's a piece of it. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased New jobs programmes can also be co-financed from national resources. What I said is that as soon as we saw the problem in this particular programme, we automatically reopened it with national resources so that we could earn the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u11	That doesn't mean we lost the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u12	No, not at all. And now I come to the second part of your question. While I think it is very right and crucial to ask about the part of late payments, because it was indeed a reality that we had to deal with, I think there is some misunderstanding about the first part you say that cash is being transferred to the Bank of Greece. What about the OAED accounts? You are well aware that surplus funds must enter the Bank of Greece and not the commercial banks, where the interest rate is 3%, while a commercial bank is 0.6%. What is being carried is not related to the annual budget allocated to the programmes by the OAED. So the 500 million he had...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u13	It's beyond that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u14	That's right. And they are in no way being transferred in any case co-financed with regard to the NRP and are not being transferred and the national resources approved by the budget from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u15	Only what the '50s law imposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u16	That's right. In other words, what is being transferred is surplus rather than cash. It has nothing to do with the implementation of programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr Minister and Mr Colleague, Mr Katsafados, let me tell you before entering your question what questions will not be discussed. We will not discuss the third question with number 11/19-7-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Continue environmental crime with the installation of wind parks in the Acarnaean mountains by the company “Prarantis Acarnani S.A.”, after consultation of the Minister and Mr. Nor will the fifth be discussed under No 1/12-7-2018 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga". We will not discuss the fourth question with number 4-12-2018, the first question of the New Democracy MP Karditsa Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Pediatric Clinics of the General Hospital of Carditsa", due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: Minister's service trip to Thessaloniki. Also, we will not discuss the second question with number 97-2018, the first question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Greek Defence Systems (ESA)", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotio Kouvelis. Cause: the exercise of parallel parliamentary duties. The first question under number 10/18-7-2018 will now be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to address the phenomenon of bulling". The question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin by expressing my deepest pain at what the inhabitants of the Eastern Attica experienced, to express my warmest condolences to the families of the victims, but something that I do not think softens their suffering. Today's day is a day when Greece lamentes, when a few miles from the center of Athens we have so many dozens dead. Because we still do not know the exact number of victims and I hope that the information and rumours that exist will not be confirmed. We will all begin to pour crocodile tears, we shall all declare our grief and suffering, but it is really shameful. And today, on the day of the restoration of democracy, on July 24th, I really feel that this state was burned with all these citizens of Eastern Attica, through its non-existence. And I would like to believe, Mr President, that there will be a moral stature, that some people - without blame today, because today is not the day to discuss the responsibilities - will have to bear the cost of this state's non-existence, of the state's failure to act on these phenomena. We must also show to them that we still have these moral principles that characterize the Greek and show that we are sympathetic to society. However, this day, Minister, I come to discuss another important issue with you, one which concerns the new generation, young people, and a few days ago a teenager put an end to his life, because it was reportedly a victim of school intimidation. This tragic event comes into addition to a series of similar incidents, which really show us the absence - if you like - of a national action plan, the treatment and prevention of school bullying, which exists in our country. And of course, school bullying is not a new phenomenon, there has been many decades ago. The economic conditions, social conditions, technology - if you like - are the ones that have shown it over the last few years. In any case, in support of what I say a few years ago, the "Smile of the Child" had done a pan-European survey, which unfortunately indicated that in our country 1/3 of Greeks has fallen victim to verbal, physical or online violence, which ranks us in the fourth place over a total of forty-nine countries throughout Europe. It's a very difficult situation and it's a very important issue. In 2013, the Observatory for Prevention of School Violence and Intimidation operated. This observatory was responsible for planning, planning, controlling all these activities that need to be carried out within a school, so that we can prevent and not be in logic alone to heal. Of course, along with family and society, the teacher also plays an important role. Minister, I would like here to tell you that there is the institution of the consultancy, which is based on the teacher and other countries, which has given important solutions to this sad phenomenon. So I ask you, Minister, on the occasion of another young person who has left life very soon, what has been done with the observatory, what is his results, what is his actions, if he is running, what is your opinion on the institution of advice, if you have planned some other actions, which we do not know, if you have made any campaigns through the Internet or a brochure. What are you going to do and what you have done so far on this burning issue, an issue that is taboo, if you want, even today in Greek society, but an issue that has a great deal of dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u20	Today is an extremely difficult day, a day when our thoughts are in our fellow citizens who have been lost in their families, but also in the overall tragic situation that has been created in these regions. Mr President, I entirely agree with what you and the President of this House have said, namely that the House cannot interrupt its work despite the very serious difficulties. Today, what is important - and I would ask my fellow Member to accept this approach - is the unity of our people, solidarity and, above all, silence and respect for those who have been lost and for their families. And there must be silence and respect for this young child and his family who have lived through this unscrupulous tragedy, to which you have also referred. Before I give some information to answer your questions, I would like to say that our teachers, on their own initiative, went to these regions this morning, they went to schools and found that our schools are in good condition, except for the Raphna PSA, which has a serious damage to the roof, which we will immediately start to deal with, so that in September the school is ready. As I told you, this was on the initiative of our teachers. Tomorrow we will know more and more tomorrow. Now, with regard to the issue you are addressing, it is an extremely serious issue, which has international dimensions. It is a problem that schools face in too many countries, almost all of them. It is a problem that cannot be solved by short-term measures. What we are trying to do is, firstly, to recognise the multiple faces of violence and bulling, because it is not a specific way of doing this from young children to other young children. This is what we think should be done with one belief that regardless of sex and origin everyone must have the same opportunities, with free access to knowledge, and that the school must have as a means of dealing with this problem as well. Of course, in order to be able to do all this, we are in constant cooperation with the Institute for Educational Policy, which has proposed a set of programmes. You will know, I hope, that for the first time this year, in 2018, we introduced the 6th of March as a "Panellas School Day against Violence at school". The danger with such initiatives is to be a bureaucratic regulation. However, we believe that, with the proposals we have made, that is to say with a set of proposals and aids that we have given to teachers, this is not the case, as there were many events on these issues on that day in particular. In fact, when I say 'around these issues' it must also be clear to the audiences who have to weigh on these issues. And here, not only are students and students, but they are also their parents, because, as I will say below, the issue of bullying, the issue of violence, is not just limited to schools. This may be one of our most serious problems for society. You know that thematic week we've introduced in high school. In the theme week one of the issues that we are asking for is that of dealing with such behaviour in schools. I will not read to you all the circulars and initiatives that we have begun to implement. We still have a lot to do, but, believe me, already from previous governments - to be fair - this reflection began to be established in schools, and we with the initiatives that we have taken over the last three years, with the culmination of and the introduction of this special day, have introduced too many actions that help teachers, because we have corresponding programmes for teachers. Of course we want to facilitate this debate which you know is not easy because it is a debate that needs to be held not only with the victims, but also with the perpetrators and not only the parents of the victims, but also with the parents of the victims. So it is an extremely complex issue that we think has taken a number of steps and, of course, our intention is to continue. I would also like to raise a few additional points in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, with regard to the catastrophic fires, as you have seen, I did not talk about responsibility, but I do not want to stay in what you have said, because, together, all sides of Parliament will express their pain, frustration, grief, deep grief, condolences, as is always the case in all the tragedies and disasters until the next one arrives. So what I feel and had to say today in plenary is that, at last, I expect to see something. That's what I wanted to say about the fires. As far as intra-school intimidation is concerned - Bullying, as has now been spread - this is a problem, Minister, which touches the foundations of Greek society and especially the new generation. In fact, in this debate - and I asked this question in order to open up this debate - I thought that a cross-party committee should also be set up, if you like. It is a problem that is uncoloured and I think there is a common place for everyone to agree on. In any case, this has been shown to us by the other countries that have dealt with it and are trying to deal with it in even better ways, such as Norway, Sweden or America. Let me say, however, that with 6 March alone, the problem is not solved, because you know that many times all these anniversary events are events so that students don't go to class to get away with the lesson. We've all gone through the shrouds, and we know how all these events work or all these institutions. So I think, Minister, that we still have a great deal to do on this matter. I think we have too much to do as parents, as a society, as an educational community. We owe too much to do to the students and to the new generation of this country. It is very easy to start and apply things. I'll tell you something very simple. Why has an anonymous questionnaire not been issued so that we can first, if you like, in all schools to see the dramatic situation that exists? We'll have to get closer. Why have we not set up any consultative centres, some direct information line to call the student, or have the parent either the victim or the perpetrator, as you quite rightly said, report these incidents? I think we need to move on to more drastic measures, Minister. I think that this must be your will, but it is our will too. We owe it to these kids. We owe it to society. We owe society better people. I think that if we can create all these structures, which are necessary, and if we can implement all these practices, which are successfully implemented abroad, we will be able to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, it's not a legislative matter. There are no laws in Greece, Minister. We are suffering from the proper application of the laws. We suffer from being able to overcome bureaucracy, suffer from being able to overcome taboo and prejudice, look at the problem in the face and have the courage to deal with it. Unfortunately, while you know that this problem has also taken on alarming proportions in our country, there is this dreadful syndrome both in society and in the educational community and in the homes of the victims and in the homes of the victims. We must, however, highlight it and be able to fight it and overcome it. That was the aim of this question, Minister. I would, of course, like you to tell me what is going on with the observatory, what the results are, and whether it is still working. Indeed, with great interest I would also like to see all these actions, which you have done and all these actions in relation to the bullying. I expect to hear them in your dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u24	The observatory did make a positive contribution. However, we think that the scale of the problem and the possibilities for intervention have exceeded the opportunity of the observatory, and so we have taken advantage of the conclusions of the observatory and made the additional measures that I have told you. Look, it probably didn't make sense. It is not that we introduced one day, as you suggested, where children will not go to school and so on. It is a day that each school is forced to design a set of activities around this issue. The second is all the activities which, in fact, make no sense to list you, mainly around specific awareness-raising actions for both parents and teachers and also for children. The next topic - and unfortunately, there we did not have a positive response from the New Democracy - is the law that we recently voted on for the support structures of education, where the Regional Educational Planning Centres and the Education and Advisory Centres, the PECs and the ERCY, that is, will have as an integral part of their activities and a set of programmes and specialists - because you have also referred to experts - on these issues. But, Mr Katsafados, there are some other issues that we need to consult as parties now, not on specific regulations, but on how to talk about society. Because what is the most serious problem of all is that there is violence in society. And the worst part is that there's some kind of violence familiarity. If by curiosity you go to some video store to get games for children, you will see how many killings there are in the vast majority of these games. One thinks these are cartoons, pressing buttons and killing people. It's kind of familiar with these things. Look at the news, watch the films. Every night I understand that if you see various works and sirials and others, it's around the subject of violence, it's around issues of familiarity with violence. Can I tell you one more thing? There is, unfortunately, a general notion that scarf is a good thing. Well, cheek is one of the negative points in a society. We can't go through red. We can't go on a one-way to the contrary. It cannot move or be parked on the sidewalks and cannot pass people with disabilities. All these are small pieces, where their whole is a violence, the recipient of which is the citizen, the recipient are the families, the recipient is the mother with the cart, who has no way to go to the child, etc. So I say that as parties - I am sure that we have no disagreement on this - we will have to start a struggle so that society can see these things and take action. There the parties will actually come and see what they can legislate. But unfortunately, as you well know, mentalities do not change by law. The attitudes change with the education and behaviour of the parties themselves for various things that are being done. In this sense we have decided at the Ministry of Education since the new school year, that is, since September, to open two major discussions in our schools, which will not only be in schools, but will also be with parents and society as a whole. One discussion is on the subject of violence, which we had planned much earlier than the tragic event with the new one you referred to. The second is a debate that needs to be held on mobile phones. As you know, we banned the use of mobile phones. But this must not be a bureaucratic measure and every director, every teacher, looking for bags, etc. Parents, children and teachers must be persuaded here for this function and the implementation of this measure. These are two issues, which are not directly related to each other. These are two huge issues for which, from September, a great debate will begin both in our schools and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, on 20-7-2018: Two criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolao Kotzias, criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulo Polakis, criminal proceedings concerning the former Ministers, etc.(b) Kostis Hatzidakis, (c) Euripides Stylianides, (d) Dimitris Reppa, (e) Giorgos Alosskouf, (f) former Deputy Minister Peter Dukas and on 24-7-2018 criminal case law concerning the former Ministers in 2013 until May 2015: (a) Economics, (b) Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, (c) Public Order and Civil Protection. Also, I have the honour to announce to the Department the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 26 July 2018. FURTHER AFFAIRS (Rules 29(1) and 130(8) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 14/23-2018 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Maria Triantafyllou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Colleagues of school units in the Prefecture of Etolokarna, which cause reactions". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 15/23-7-2018 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: ‘RRP/SR 2014-2020 of the works of Amphipolis, due to the blockade of the Ministry of Culture’. 3. The 12/19-7-2018 topical question by V Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Talk of passengers at Rhodes Airport". 4. The 13/20-7-2018 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje". 5. The Question No 16/23-7-2018 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Destructive damage to tobacco production in the Regional Unit of Rhodope". 6. The Question No 1/12-7-2018 by Congressman Pireias of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga is uncontrolled." Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-24-S1-commons.u26	With the consent of the Department at 17.38' the meeting on Thursday, July 26, 2018, at 9.30', on the subject of the work of the Department: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring contracts between the Greek Government and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament C.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executioners of the Mary (Marie) Wearer, respectively, according to the agenda distributed.
