ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please, Mr. Secretary, announce the reports to the Department. [[They shall be announced to the Department by Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Member of the Kavala, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[Let the page in. 1 au 1 a]] B. SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS IN SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, with the office's permission, we will begin without the Minister's presence because he is on the way. However, since we also have a few communications, we will proceed and the Minister will come to begin the debate on topical and urgent questions. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 15 September it was World Democracy Day, as established by the UN General Assembly in 2007. The Greek Parliament is, of course, involved in the efforts aimed at highlighting the values of democracy and parliamentaryism and in order to honour this day, there will be a brief speech from the Bureau and we will proceed with the topical and urgent debate. Democracy is the city of equality, freedom, will, without fear of expression, respect for the majority but also for minorities, diversity, justice and cooperation. It is the civilization that leaves no room for hatred, division or deadlock. Democracy was born in ancient Greece more than two and a half thousand years ago and so far remains the civilization of the modern and civilized world solid and for so many centuries. And that means a lot. Even the Acropolis is the only human creation there, where it is located, that remains exposed to what time and history brought to it. So the ancient Greeks, our ancestors, were the creators of democracy and the source of knowledge, philosophy and culture. It was the first people to express theories about science. It was also the first people to inspire and feel the need to record history and present literature. He was still the first people to think about and expressed philosophical concepts, concepts of universal and universality, which even identified man, society, truth and life, and, most importantly, he never had to be reprinted ever since. They've been for good since the first edition. The same applied to one of the most important goods, democracy, as a state, as a way of governance, as an example of society's organization, but also as a supreme human value. Greeks and all humanity owe much to the top forms of that time that laid the foundations and contributed to the formation of the state building and its legacy: To Solon, which reformed the political and social institutions in ancient Athens. In Klisthene, who, through his reforms, essentially sealed the democratic character of the constitution. In the Enclave of the Golden Ages, which even more exalted the Athenian Republic. To give all citizens the right, but also the duty to participate in the governance of the city-state, was perhaps the most important conquest of the ancient Greeks. Today, so many hundreds of thousands of years that democracy stands in our world, proving its correctness, timelessness and above all its uniqueness. Many attempted to destroy her. But neither the world wars have succeeded and it is certainly not even modern globalisation and the turbulence on the planet will succeed. Because after democracy there is no intermediate space, there is no card available, there is no negotiation for something else, there is simply the abyss. Even peoples, who have been living under torture for decades, without freedoms or rights or knowledge for the outside world, realise that they have been forced to be on the sidelines and that their rulers are nothing better than dictators, parities of world society and eternally stigmatized in history. All the members of the world's democratic community must do all we can to ensure that just individuals, groups who are oppressed, even all the peoples of the world at last get what they lack. Because where there is no democracy there is no value or hope. So we still still have a road to defending and, above all, extending democracy, and we should not always consider it to be self-evident or acquired. In our homeland this building, the Greek Parliament, is the most important pillar of our democracy. It is the place in which we, the representatives and the expressors of popular sovereignty, present and united, try, while respecting the Constitution, legislation, regulation and justice, to exercise our duties in his name and to offer added value. It is the place in which we can all agree or disagree. In any case, we must seek wider agreements and greater acceptance so that better conditions can be created for the Greek people, because, let us not forget, there will always be the anguish of everyday life. Maybe some people always wanted us to agree on everything. But this is where the magnificence of democracy lies. Anyone who disagrees is just as respectful and agrees with the one who agrees and contributes with their own ideas in its smooth operation. Sometimes, it is true that the procedures are being tested, but in general it is shown that the principles and values of Parliament are actually forged. In other words, democracy does not cease to remain a living citizen, which is naturally evolving on the condition, of course, that citizens' active participation and that everyone is united in the common goal. It's up to us to enrich it. Ladies and gentlemen, let me close with a united message which refers to how much we can achieve as a people if we respect the basics in our understanding and believe in the collective power offered by the cooperation that is, moreover, a basic principle of democracy. Let us consider for a few seconds: If today it was possible, at least for a moment only, to remove from humanity everything that, both material and intangible has been created and offered by the Greeks in the centuries of their presence, even from the classic antiquity so far, that is, language, science, philosophy, democracy, Parthenon, Homer, Thucydides and so many others, what value will remain in humanity. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First let me announce to the Department the Topical Questions Card on Thursday 20 September 2018. QUESTIONS (Rules 29(1) and 130(8) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of Parliament, with No 45/13-9-2018, a topical question to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "The situation on the islands of the Eastern Aegean". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, dated 48/17-9-2018, on the subject: "It extends the irreversible policy of the Government in the field of insurance and new categories of our fellow citizens". 3. The Question No 49/17-9-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synchroniki, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "To carry out the necessary medical examinations of those involved in sports activities with state responsibility and funding through the structures of the state". 4. The Question No 46/13-9-2018 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Unfortunateness about the future of the sanctuary of the Aristotle Artemis is expressed by the Association of Greek Archaeologists". 5. The Question No 43/13-9-2018 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 6. The Question No 36/7-9-2018 by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Restoration of frescoes of the Holy Church of Agios Ioannis Theologian Municipality of Acharon". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 33/5-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "There was a US involvement. in the case of the scorching;’. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation "Scientific Benefit Foundation" and the Greek State on the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure". In addition, the Foreign Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Economy and Development, and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 17-9-2018: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Council Directive 2015/637/EU of 20 April 2015 (OJ L 106/24.4.2015).’ Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are entering the debate on today's topical and urgent debate, from which two questions will be discussed during today's sitting. We begin with our first question with number 44/13-9-2018 by the MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Enhancement and upgrading of children's camps in Dragon and Kastania of the Carditsa Prefecture". My colleague, you have two minutes to start with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we all have a socially sensitive approach to the institution of student camps, we support their action and we would like to give them the proper priority for their proven social and educational role, their positive effect on children's health, physical and mental health, but also on their emancipation and socialisation. The Ministry of Education has many camps throughout the country, for which we do not in many cases have a clear picture and their complete descriptors, nor do we know exactly what their ownership status is. I would like to mention to you, Minister, the case of two children's camps that have left their print in the memory of many generations in my region of Carditsa and belong to the Ministry of Education. These camps are located in two areas with unparalleled natural beauty and excellent climate, one in Kastania, next to the Lake Plastira and the other in Drakoutrepi of the Municipality of Mousakio and have been allocated to local government for years. Unfortunately, today, they remain closed and abandoned, when we can, if we decide, reopen and provide important services to children and local society. The children's camps in Kastania were built on an area of twenty-six acres in 1965 and operated by the Ministry of Education, hosting thousands of children, until 1983. From 1997 to 2009, successive and horrific actions were taken to reopen the camp by many institutions, but with no effect. Since 2008, for 15 years, the camps were awarded by the Ministry of Education to the then Municipality of Itamos, which in 2009 provided a significant amount of the "THESIS" program and formed part of the camps. Then they were transferred along with the entire property of the Municipality of Itamos to the Calli-Carditsa Municipality. In particular, the school camps of Drakope with the donation of the local community in 1960 were awarded to the Ministry of Education. They took place from 1960 to 1972, hosting thousands of students in the county. In 2004, the Ministry of Education, by decision of the Central Committee of Mathematics Camps and Hosts, granted them to the Municipality of Mousakio for thirteen years - this concession still applies - in order to operate them as a campsite under his auspices. However, they have never worked and remain inactive and abandoned. During my visit to the beautiful areas of Drakopri and Kastania in the two camps, together with representatives of local and local authorities, I found, Minister, with regret, that these campsites, which could be an excellent alternative to education, education and recreation, remain untapped, with damaged infrastructure. So I ask you, Minister, what do you intend from the next camp year to do so that the camps at the Ministry of Education are upgraded, modernised and refunctioned? Have you worked out synergies with other ministries and with local government, so that together there will be a national planning to review the campus as an additional educational process capable of completing public education and making it attractive and effective? In the direction of this upgrade, do you intend to review the reopening of Dragon and Kastania camps, given that Carditsa is effectively deprived of camps that are capable of offering opportunities for alternative and experiential experience to children - pupils? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Katsavria. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u6	First of all, if you'll excuse me for the delay. He had a move from Maroussi, where it's the Ministry, where we really couldn't predict it. Mrs. Katsavria, I don't want to start a story about who's to blame and who's not to blame, but these camps don't belong to the Ministry of Education. They've been awarded to the two municipalities you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u7	For some years, but it's the Ministry's property.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u8	Wait. There are contracts signed with Mousakios Municipality until 2022 and the Municipality of Karditsas until 2023. So until then, it's their responsibility. This is a very serious matter, because, as you can see, the regimes have changed since they had been granted by the Ministry of Education. They have been allocated to the municipalities, not our own government - I think - because the Ministry of Education is not centrally able to support all these camps. The big question is why these camps have not been able - and I understand that they are in extremely beautiful places - to function multiplely. They could also act as sports clubs. I understand that there was a study that at that time cost the municipality EUR 300,000 to exploit. So what I would say is that the Ministry of Education is very open to us to move on if they want to change the status quo if it is the legal status that prevents them. However, the Ministry of Education today cannot tell the municipalities anything but to make an appeal that it is really a shame not to use such land. If we can help, help, but also the municipalities must tell us with their involvement for so many years what the real problems they have faced and whether or not they can be solved. So I would suggest that you transfer the Ministry of Education's intention to consult the municipalities, to tell us what difficulties they have, because some difficulties may be legal difficulties in terms of the municipalities and to change what we are going to change, so that we can actually make use of a state property, which is probably very good for young children as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, that is precisely the spirit of my question and proposal today. Because, indeed, these camps are untapped for too many years. But you understand that there is an anguish, especially from local communities, to upgrade and exploit themselves. Here I would really like us to find a meeting point with local government, which is intended to see this issue together so that we can work on it. So, on the basis of this question I have tabled to you, I think it is appropriate to see the whole of the campsite in all its three dimensions, in order to support a socially sound development policy. Its first dimension concerns the campsite itself and its role in today's conditions. The second dimension concerns the fact that the camps of the Ministry of Education - because they may have been allocated to the municipalities, but this does not mean that they are not the property of the Ministry of Education - they are state property, often destabilised and unexploited, and at some point we must see what needs to be done with this infrastructure. The third dimension relates to individual campsite structures, which need to be examined in terms of the possibility of being exploited through the Ministry's partnership with other ministries and local authorities. It is true that local government has also reached the limits of the collapse, following restrictive policies imposed on the country because of bankruptcy and not just. This has been happening for many years. Therefore, it is understandable that the municipalities are incapable of doing studies and investments. The State, however, and in this case the Ministry of Education, can provide the resources for the study, rehabilitation and construction of the necessary campsite. However, local government can assume management and operation as it has the valuable knowledge of local needs and capabilities. State property is necessary to preserve itself as such for today and tomorrow for the new generations. As I pointed out in my protology, it is very important to see the campsite at a more modern look. This, in my opinion, means on the one hand supporting the people's family and, on the other, a substantial upgrading of the educational process. In addition, I think that the prospects of local and regional development will also be increased, as the camp infrastructure can be used at two levels: at the level of satisfying the needs of vulnerable social groups and at the level of familiarization with alternative forms of tourism throughout the year, not only during the summer season. Finally, Mr President, Mr Minister, I am convinced that the reopening of the camps only positively has to offer. It would be a great pleasure to start with the campsite of my Prefecture, Kastania and Draghole. The benefits for children and the Greek family are obvious and the local communities will be stimulated multiplely. They'll bring our villages alive and some young people will get the motive to stay there. Most importantly, however, everyone will be given the opportunity to reconnect our society with the nature and tradition of the Carditsa Prefecture and every place, as well as the values of collectiveness, cooperation, solidarity and joint creative effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat the general principles and guidelines. It's obvious that what you mentioned also covers a hundred percent. However, the Ministry of Education cannot only lose. We say that it is very important that municipalities take initiatives for various activities of pupils and children, etc. Here, therefore, these two camps were awarded to the municipality. The municipality must tell us and not just as a check - which I would say as a check - because so long they have been untapped or because they have never come to the Ministry of Education a proposal from the municipality that says: 'We have these difficulties' or 'We also ask for additional help to make use of them'. The Ministry of Education cannot, for what it has granted, then be above the municipality, which is an extremely important institution. I say, therefore, that everyone must also know the responsibilities they have. Secondly, I read here that in 2009 the Municipality of Itamos made a sum available from the program "THISES" and formed part of campshops in an amusement area. A study was also prepared by the Tourism Education Agency of a full organization of a sport centre of EUR 300,000. So some money has been spent. There have been some thoughts. Let the municipality collect all this and see what we can do. Let me give you another example. before the President of the Municipality of Sitia read one of the reports that has been made and says that inconsistently, they have ceased to be inaccessible, etc. As of January 16, we have notified and posted the site at the Ministry of Education the inhibition of schools that should have taken place forty-five to forty years, because there has not been any remodeling since then. In the meantime, new streets have been passed, several schools have been closed, several others have been opened, etc. The whole of Greece knew that. Now people come and say: 'You had posted it, but we had not taken it.' How else do we do it? So I say everyone has responsibilities. We also have responsibilities, because from thirteen and a half thousands of schools may some have been wronged or have to make a different kind of correction. But when we say public consultation, that's exactly what we mean. So I ask you to convey our political intention to the municipality to come to an agreement and see what we can do, obviously in the context of our possibilities and to give a life in these two places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next question, I will read the inconveniences of the ministers for four questions which will not be discussed. The third question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "The Violences were put on the protest in Thessaloniki against the Ambassadors' agreement", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction by the Minister of Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. Cause: government mission abroad. The fourth question by No. 43/13-9-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the operation of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphiochia", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlos Polakis, because of a workload. The fifth, under number 38/7-9-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The risk of Elias staying outside the national motorway network, based on the government's methods on the multitude of Patras - Pyrgos road", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis due to a government mission internally. The sixth Question No 33/5-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "There has been a US involvement in the skeptic issue?", will it not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Marcos Bolaris, because of a workload. For all the above, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government. We continue with the last timely question for today's meeting, which is the second under number 41/12-9-2018, a topical question by MP Trikala of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Universal isolation of the Trikala Prefecture”. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the unification project of the University of Thessaly, the TEI of Thessaly and the TEI of Central Greece, which you have come to public consultation on 3 July. The new University of Thessaly, as you have planned, will consist of eight schools with thirty-four departments, of which only two, unfortunately, have the Trikala. In other words, only 5% of the sections of the new University of Thessaly will have a seat in Trikala, while 95% of the sections will operate in the remaining three prefectures of Thessaly and Lamia. It is necessary, Minister, to stress the important contribution of higher and higher education, beyond the supply of knowledge, to the development and extroversion of the Greek region. More and more today universities recognize their development role in the wider areas of their interest by promoting programmes to encourage, develop relations between universities, local communities and local productive sectors. Large areas of the country, Minister, would have been devastated and impoverished if the state had not taken care to set up higher and higher education institutions which retained young people in these areas, but have also brought many students from the large urban centres. The policy of establishing and placing regional universities and postgraduate programmes is important to be part of the broader context defined by development and education policies, while taking into account regional and local specificities and needs and possibilities. The Trikala, Minister, has strong competitive advantages in terms of tourism, the agri-food sector, the processing of agricultural and livestock products, but which, in the design of the new University of Thessaly, you have announced, unfortunately, seems not to be taken seriously, thus, contributing, unfortunately, to an additional isolation but also to a university exclusion from the regional section of the Trikala. It is therefore necessary, today, that both the Trikales institutions and the Trikales' people take serious account of the specific characteristics of our prefecture in the design and operation of the university departments of the new University of Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr Skreka, I am sure you will be informed that the project that has been launched is a project of a working group involving colleagues from the university, from the Central Greece TEI and the Thessaly TEI. I personally visited the Trikala at the beginning of August to discuss both with the local government and the teachers there the prospect of our Higher Education Institute. Here we need to see some things. You referred to the unification of the two institutions. Our reform plan has nothing to do with unification and this must be understood. Our reform plan relates to the debate on the future of higher education in our country. It is a debate that has not taken place for thirty-five years. So here we have to agree with each other who has the ultimate responsibility for this decision. The Ministry of Education has the final responsibility of the Ministry of Education in consultation with the academics, because it is an academic question. What happened with the "ATHENA" project, where in the name of rationalisation of the map the things that have happened, which I do not want to describe and find every day in front of us, will not happen again. But there is something else on which I would very much like to agree on a political basis. The future of higher education is not allowed to be defined through the demands of the Local Government, because you know that it is human and logical for every mayor to want more for his place. That's how it's been for so many years. All these years due to various situations and, above all, to situations for which we are not very proud, there were sections left to their fate. You didn't mention it. There is the department of TEIs for political engineers in Trikala that is to be closed by decisions of your former government. It's not personal. So I'm saying when you start wrong, in five years, you'll find it in front of you. So we want the mayors beside us so they can tell us the needs so that we can see how the university can help them. Mayors and districtlors are the best known of these needs. If the need can be served with the alpha or beta department, this is an academic problem, a translation of the needs of an academic department. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So we have to say: Trikala has an excellent department, the Department of Physical Education and Sport Science. I had the pleasure of actually visiting and speaking with colleagues there. It made me an excellent impression. There is also a proposal to set up a arbitration panel. They are parts that are also seen in international universities. As you can see, a physical treatment department is not just a gymnastics department, as we used to call it. It's a much more complex section. That's why we're setting up a Trikala kinology institute. We will also establish a number of two-year curriculum programs, which is a new institution of the university. So I have the feeling that, first of all, we are leaving from a logic that says 'give me more parts' in which people are not aware of and adopting this requirement. So we say that we form these sections with academic criteria, we listen to the local society for its needs, and we take a step further. The next step is in this transitional period to be able to rationalise this situation a little. So it's not unification. It is the debate on the future of universities. This means, firstly, synergies between TEIs and universities; secondly, the establishment of completely new sections; thirdly, the creation of new institutions, such as university research centres and thus institutes and, fourthly, two-year programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u17	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u18	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u19	So if you want to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u20	So in this context we must also see the location of the Trikala in the overall design. The decisions are not final. We are listening, because we may indeed have some additional ideas. We are, however, in the final straight line to get the bill out in the consultation and then filed in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Screka, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u22	Mr Minister, not to play with words: not unification, yes to the future of universities. And in order to plan the future of universities, we need to see what demand and what requirements the labour market in the various sectors will have in the coming years and on the basis of these requirements, and on the basis of what we want to create, what students we want to produce in the coming years, plan the parts that will be created and operated today. Of course, I repeat that we must take serious account of the specific and local characteristics of the various regions of the country. Let me say that we are talking about injustice in relation to the Trikala Prefecture. Today, in Trikala, according to the plan that has come out in the consultation - if this is the final plan - two sections will be in operation, one of which is TEFA, as you said, which is already in operation, and a new part of the diet and three years of study programmes plus one institute. In Larissa, respectively, nine departments will operate, including seven new, four-year programs, a university centre, a technology park and one institute. Fourteen departments will operate in Volos, two new, five-year programmes, one university centre and two institutes. In Lamia, five sections will be in operation, of which three new and three two-year programmes. Finally, four sections of which three new, additional two-year programs and one institute will be operated in Carditsa. And since I fully agree with you that there should be no populism auction here, but it should be with academic criteria and taking into account the local needs to design the future of universities, let me say that Trikala has the following very strong features: firstly, they have a strong primary sector and a strong manufacturing industry of agricultural and livestock products, with very large companies, one of which is the leading in the Greek market in processing livestock products and around it, many smaller and medium-sized processing units have been developed. Also, Trikala, as you know very well, is a smart city. For decades now, more than a decade have invested in innovation and research. In Trikala we have a strong tourist economy and it is one of the leading destinations of Greece. We have the top theme park, which is the Flood Mill. We have new and modern road connections, which many have been struggling over the years to complete, such as the new E65 motorway, but also the railway link, which is planned to be completed over the next two years. Finally, the most important thing is that in Trikala today, the Department of Physical Education and Sport, the Trikala Department, operates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This department has acquired an international reputation, which is demonstrated, Minister, by the fact that so far fifty students from foreign countries, developed countries, with developed educational institutions in this field have chosen to come to Trikala and to study in this department of Physical Education and Sport and graduate from its master program. This department to continue its development needs, as you understand very well, empowerment, an academic environment. It needs to be supported by new parts of relevant objects. These could be parts of physiotherapy, athletic tourism or nutrition, such as what comes. It also needs to be strengthened with inspiring material, with teachers, administrative staff and technicians. Because by designing sections and boxes without inspiring potential, we do not offer services for a decent educational system that will provide high-quality academic education services. So there, my question is a specific one. What do you intend to do, as a government, to solve - I will say - whatever problems have been created in previous years and have not been solved, but also to support the operation of this particular department, which, as it seems, is becoming a school, so that this department can continue and the school can provide high-level academic services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u23	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final question. Minister, do you intend to invite all the local institutions, the mayor, the Vice-President, but also the Members of all the parties to discuss together what is going to happen to our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you have set out the very positive aspects of your prefecture and of the city in particular, because they do. In fact, many of these things I found out when I went there. We have a little difference that, when we discuss it with colleagues, it is not that different. What do I mean? The design of universities cannot be done solely with the needs of the labour market, because the labour market, as you know, is a very changing thing. What we want is for children to form primarily and acquire some skills that give them the choice of what work they will find. So university nowadays is a much more open institution, if you like, in society and not exclusively in the labour market, without anyone overlooking the issue you have raised. The second theme you mentioned and related to this excellent department is how it really is, many children come from abroad to study. It is something we need to provide in the bill we are about to table, because it is a section that has an extroversion since the first moment it was created and indeed the scientific presence of the teachers is internationally. That's why we do the Institute of Cinesiology, which is a research institute. The last thing you have raised is staffing and infrastructure. You are absolutely right when you say that no one can go to such programming unless there is a commitment to staffing these departments. You will recall, perhaps, that when we passed the Law on the Ionian University and the Ionian Islands TEI and the University of Ioannina and the Epirus TEI, we committed ourselves to the exact number of teachers we will give, as well as to the funding for this project. It is clear that we will do the same in this case. In consultation with the Republican authorities of all institutions, we will commit ourselves to the exact number of teachers that the State will give, along with the additional funding. We will put the bill on public consultation and we will ask for the mayors, the chambers - whatever world I had met up - to tell us their comments. I am sure many comments will be embedded. The same happened in Ionianna and Ionians. So we are going to vote on a bill, really seeking the greatest possible consensus, for something that the Trikalas in particular are getting very gainful of quality. You understand now. Don't compare how many sections Larissa and Volos have. There are historical reasons for this and we need to see whether the Trikala or not qualitatively is being upgraded. I think they are being upgraded and, indeed, dramatically improved. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is therefore closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-18-S1-commons.u28	With the consent of the Department at 19.15 the meeting for the next Thursday, September 20, 2018, at 10.30', on the subject of the work of the Department: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
